                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR1952



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-76580)



                                    ON A

                 PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT FACILITY

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2 BILLION


                                   TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                    FOR A

   DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN WITH DEFERRED DRAWDOWN OPTION

                                 (DPL-DDO)



                              December 14, 2011




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 14, 2011)
                                            Currency Unit = Rupiah
                                             1.00 = US$ [0.0001]
                                              US$ 1.00 = [9,017]

                                                 FISCAL YEAR 2011

                                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA        Analytic and Advisory Assistance                FSAP     Financial Sector Assessment Program
ADB        Asian Development Bank                          FY       Fiscal Year
ASEAN      Association of Southeast Asian Nations          GDP      Gross Domestic Product
AusAID     Australian Agency for International             GOI      Government of Indonesia
           Development
BAPPENAS   National Development Planning Agency            IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                                    Development
BI         Bank Indonesia                                  ICR      Implementation Completion Report
BKPM       Investment Board                                IDR      Indonesian Rupiah
BPS        Central Bureau of Statistics                    MDFTIC   Multi-Donor Fund for Trade and Investment
                                                                    Climate
CAS PR     Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report     MOF      Ministry of Finance
CG         Central Government                              NGO      Non-governmental organizations
CPI        Consumer Price Index                            NPL      Non-Performing Loans
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy                    OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and
                                                                    Development
CMRS       Crisis Monitoring Response System               PEPI     National Team for the Development of Exports
                                                                    and Investment
DDO        Deferred Drawdown Option                        PESF     Public Expenditure Support Facility
DIPA       Budget Activity Lists                           PKH      Conditional Cash Transfer Program
DNI        Negative Investment List                        PNPM     National Community Empowerment Program
DPL        Development Policy Loan                         TA       Technical Assistance
EITI       Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative   TNP2K    National Team for the Acceleration of Poverty
                                                                    Reduction
EMBI       Emerging Market Bond Index                      USD      United States Dollar
ESW        Economic and Sector Work                        YoY      Year on Year
FDI        Foreign Direct Investment



                                          Vice President: James Adams
                                        Country Director: Stefan Koeberle
                                 Sector Director (Acting): Robert Taliercio
                                         Lead Economist: Shubham Chaudhuri
                                      Task Team Leader: Enrique Blanco Armas
                                    ICR Primary Author: Elaine Tinsley
                                        INDONESIA
                   Development Policy Loan with Deferred Drawdown Option


                                                        CONTENTS

Data Sheet 
  A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................ i 
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i 
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i 
  D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ ii 
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii 
  F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iii 
  G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ................................................................. iv 
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ iv 

Main Document
 1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1 
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3 
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 6 
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 18 
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19 
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 21 
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 23 
 Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 24 
 Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 25 
 Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 25 
 Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 25 
 Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 25 
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 25
 MAP …………………………………………………………………………………. 26
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Public Expenditure
Country:                Indonesia               Program Name:             Support Facility (DPL-
                                                                          DDO)
Program ID:             P115199                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-76580
ICR Date:               01/06/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          INDONESIA
Original Total
                        USD 2,000.00M           Disbursed Amount:         USD 0.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 0.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Coordinating Ministry of the Economy
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 AUSTRALIA
 Government of Japan
 Asian Development Bank

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/09/2008     Effectiveness:             08/12/2009           08/12/2009
Appraisal:            01/15/2009     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/03/2009     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010           12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Highly Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem                                  Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
Program at any time:                               (QEA):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                               15                  15
Central government administration                                     31                  31
General finance sector                                                23                  23
General industry and trade sector                                     23                  23
Mining and other extractive                                           8                   8


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                 8                  8
International financial standards and systems                         21                  21
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                   8                  8
Other economic management                                             34                  34
Regulation and competition policy                                     29                  29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       James W. Adams
Country Director:          Stefan G. Koeberle                   Joachim von Amsberg
Sector Manager:            Shubham Chaudhuri                    Tunc Tahsin Uyanik
Program Team Leader:       Enrique Blanco Armas                 P.S. Srinivas
ICR Team Leader:           Enrique Blanco Armas
ICR Primary Author:        Elaine A. Tinsley




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The proposed Public Expenditure Support Facility (PESF) of USD 2 billion is a DPL
with Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO). Its main objective is to assist the Government
of Indonesia (GoI) in addressing the potential adverse impacts of the ongoing global
financial crisis on public expenditures during 2009/10. Learning the lessons from the
crisis of 1997/98, the Go1 would like to ensure that essential public expenditures are
maintained even during this period of stress. Therefore, the GoI would like to put in place
arrangements that would give international and domestic markets confidence to enable it
to raise needed resources from them. These arrangements include a set of confidence-
boosting policy measures and back-up financing arrangements - a part of which is the
proposed loan. This support would be available, if the current stress in the market
continues and is aimed at reducing the possibility of a financing shortfall. The loan will
support the GoI’s efforts in the following policy areas: (1) reassuring financial markets
and maintaining financial system stability (2) sustaining critical public expenditures
while maintaining budget discipline and (3) facilitating private investment and supporting
exports.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target          Completion or
                                              documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Reassuring financial markets and maintaining financial system stability
                                          Avert financial
                                          crisis or if occurs,
                 Uncertain financial
                                          authorities
                 environment. Potential
Value                                     responded with
                 risk of not meeting
                                          appropriate
                 2009 financing
                                          measures. Meet
                 requirement.
                                          2009 financing
                                          requirement.
Date achieved    02/01/2009               12/31/2010
Comments         2009 financing needs were met from financial markets as projected. Financing
                 costs reduced significantly as the operation was finalized and approved.
                 Maintain share of a) social spending and b) infrastructure investments in
Indicator 2 :
                 central government expenditure relative to 2008.
                 a) Social spending is    Maintain share of                   Social Expenditures
                 5.9% of central          a) social spending                  in 2009: 11.7%
Value
                 government               and b)                              Infrastructure
                 expenditure              infrastructure                      Expenditures in
                 b) Infrastructure        investments in                      2009: 8.4%

                                              iii
                  investment is 7.8% of    central
                  central government       government
                  expenditure              expenditure
                                           relative to 2008.
Date achieved     12/31/2008               12/31/2010                           12/31/2009
Comments          Spending in both infrastructure and social expenditure was increased in 2009
Indicator 3 :     Increase capital expenditure disbursement rates in first half relative to 2008.
                                           Increase in
                                           percentage of
                  22.3% of capital
Value                                      capital
                  expenditures disbursed                                        27%
                                           expenditures
                  in first half
                                           disbursed in first
                                           half.
Date achieved     12/31/2008               12/31/2010                           06/30/2009
Comments
                  Disbursements of capital expenditures increased to 27% in 1st half of 2009


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                             Values (from                         Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value                              Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     GoI access to financial markets - credit rating
Value             S&P:BB-/Stable/B                                            Moody: Ba1
                                           Maintain or
                  Fitch:BB                                                    Fitch: BB+
                                           improve rating
                  Moody:Ba3                                                   S&P: BB+
Date achieved     02/02/2009               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
                  By end 2010 Indonesia was one notch below investment grade by all major
Comments
                  ratings agencies

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
          Date ISR
No.                              DO                          IP                 Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1      06/30/2010          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                iv
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Entering the global financial crisis in late 2008, Indonesia was in a strong and stable
position. Growth was at 6 percent, debt-to-GDP had fallen to about 30 percent, the
current account was in surplus, reserves were high and rising, and the exchange rate had
been stable since mid-2006. Numerous improvements in the government’s tax collection
system, along with expenditure restraint, had also strengthened Indonesia’s fiscal position,
leading to annual primary budget surpluses and a sharp improvement in tax revenues in
2008. A track record of prudent economic management and higher growth led to strong
improvements in Indonesia’s poverty and employment numbers.

By mid-September of 2008, the ripple effects of the global turmoil were adversely and
significantly affecting Indonesia’s financial markets. After broadly tracking the US dollar
since mid-2006, the rupiah came under pressure, losing one-third of its value against the
US dollar by late November. At the same time, the stock market index declined by over
50 percent from a year earlier. Government debt markets were especially hard hit by the
increase in global risk aversion, with yields on both IDR and USD bonds rising sharply.
Spreads on USD sovereign bonds jumped almost 800 bps, approximately 300 bps higher
than across the region. Relatively high amortization levels and reliance on foreign
investor funding made government finances more vulnerable to tighter global liquidity
and higher risk premiums.

Risks in the economy rose as the adverse impacts of a growth slowdown were beginning
to be felt and with the OECD economies in recession, a pronounced growth slowdown
was anticipated. Sharp falls in commodity prices were cutting export values, and also the
stimulus they had been providing to Indonesia’s domestic demand over the past few years.
Slowdowns in other economies were expected to reduce exports and investment further,
and also accelerate the return of migrant workers. Further depreciation and falls in
domestic demand were likely to affect corporations’ profitability and result in rising non-
performing loans and the erosion of banks’ capital. Although Indonesian corporations
have reasonably well diversified sources of finance and are not significantly leveraged,
tighter financing conditions would make new and rollover financing for corporations
more difficult, further dragging on investment and growth. In addition, domestic capital
markets had historically been subject to sudden changes in sentiment – which increased
the concerns about capital outflows.

The potential for capital flight by both foreign and domestic investors remained a
problematic issue. The combination of Indonesia’s relatively open capital account,
significant foreign presence in its stock and bond markets and the legacy of the 1998
crisis, left investors sensitive to exchange rate movements and leaving the economy
prone to capital flight. Therefore despite sound macroeconomic fundamentals, there were
sizeable risks that the spillover effects of the global financial crisis could negatively
impact the economy and Indonesia’s development progress, and the government stepped
in aggressively to address it.

                                             1
The 2009 budget law passed in November 2008 provided the government with the
flexibility to respond to the evolving economic conditions and to implement a fiscal
stimulus program and to accelerate budget execution, a prerequisite for enhancing the
impact and timeliness of any fiscal stimulus package. The 2009 budget law detailed a
number of steps that the government could use to sustain critical public expenditures,
including provisions to ensure that priority publicly-funded infrastructure projects were
financed even under unfavorable market conditions– to avoid repeating the experience of
the 1998 Asian crisis, when infrastructure spending fell drastically. The budget also
protected social sector spending, in particular, funding for the flagship community-based
poverty alleviation program, so as to provide a cushion for households adversely affected
by any growth slowdown. In addition, in January 2009, the government announced a 1.4
percent of GDP stimulus package, providing tax cuts, social safety net support, expanded
infrastructure investment, and support to industries most affected by the crisis.

Though developments in early 2009 provided some indication that Indonesia’s financial
markets were stabilizing, the risk of further disruption remained. The GoI sought to
address this by proposing additional policies in several areas to address the impacts of the
crisis. It proposed increasing transparency and confidence in the financial sector;
improvements to the investment climate aimed at giving further confidence to private
investors immediately as well as to position Indonesia as an investment destination of
choice post-crisis, and measures to maintain and speed up public spending as well as
mitigating the poverty impacts of the crisis.

Rationale for Bank Assistance: In the event that the government would face financing
constraints if global liquidity conditions did not ease, the government requested budget
support from the World Bank in the form of a USD 2 billion Public Expenditure Support
Facility (PESF) which the Government stated it only intended to exercise when certain
conditions would be met. Several development partners (Australian Government,
Japanese Government, ADB) also supported GoI on similar terms, bringing the total
package of assistance to US$5.5 billion. Despite strong macroeconomic fundamentals
and relatively benign growth slowdown forecasts, it became clear that increased volatility
in international financial markets had become a real risk to Indonesia’s development
efforts. The contingent financing provided by both the World Bank and other partners
would allow Indonesia to continue accessing market financing at reasonable rates,
supporting Indonesia’s development efforts.

Although the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) did not explicitly envisage such crisis
support, the policy reform agenda supported by the operation, which aimed at improving
institutional response by Indonesia to the global financial crisis, was fully in line with the
emphasis of the CPS on strengthening Indonesia’s institutions.

The PESF was also intended to complement the regular DPL program, as it focused on a
subset of policy areas covered under the DPL, but with a focus on supporting critical
stroke-of-the-pen measures that were needed to deal with a pressing financial situation,
yet also helped to advance policy actions that were part of the regular DPL pillars.



                                              2
As with the regular DPLs, the Bank was also able to bring in other donors and thereby
leverage the Bank amount for a more substantive package.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Public Expenditure Support Facility (PESF) of USD 2 billion is a DPL with Deferred
Drawdown Option (DDO). Its main objective is to assist the Government of Indonesia
(GoI) in addressing the potential adverse impacts of the ongoing global financial crisis on
public expenditures during 2009/10. Learning the lessons from the crisis of 1997/98, the
GoI would like to ensure that essential public expenditures are maintained even during
this period of stress. Therefore, the GoI would like to put in place arrangements that
would give international and domestic markets confidence to enable it to raise needed
resources from them. These arrangements include a set of confidence-boosting policy
measures and back-up financing arrangements - a part of which is the proposed loan. This
support would be available, if the current stress in the market continues and is aimed at
reducing the possibility of a financing shortfall.

The loan will support the GoI’s efforts in the following policy areas: (1) reassuring
financial markets and maintaining financial system stability (2) sustaining critical public
expenditures while maintaining budget discipline and (3) facilitating private investment
and supporting exports.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

n/a

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

(i) Reassuring financial markets and maintaining financial system stability.
(ii) Sustaining critical public expenditures while maintaining budget discipline.
(iii) Crowding in private investment and supporting exports.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

n/a

1.6 Other significant changes

n/a

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Program Performance




                                            3
The PESF was done in response to a potential impact the global financial crisis could
impart on Indonesia. The operation, the largest one prepared for Indonesia, was
completed within 6 months from the time the concept note was reviewed. As the DPL
prior actions were met prior to signing of the loan agreement, all conditions in the
program document were fulfilled.

                                                   DPL-DDO
List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                                            Status
Policy Area 1: Financial Market Reassurance and Stability
1. Issued a financial safety net government regulation in lieu of law that clarifies the         Fulfilled
     roles, responsibilities and procedures that govern the actions and responses of Bank
     Indonesia, the Minister of Finance, and the Deposit Insurance Corporation in the
     event of the failure of a financial institution.
2. Steps to maintain the stability of the banking system by:                                     Fulfilled
     a) issuing a government regulation in lieu of law increasing ceiling on deposit
       insurance from 100 million to 2 billion rupiah and allowing the Government to
       provide a blanket guarantee of all bank deposits if necessary.
     b)Issuing a government regulation in lieu of law that amends the Bank Indonesia
       Law regarding the types of assets that banks can use as collateral for borrowing
       from the central bank
3. Initiated a Financial Sector Assessment Program                                               Fulfilled
4. Issued and committed to implement a financing program for 2009 that specifies the             Fulfilled
     terms and circumstances under which the government would draw on the support
     available from the PESF and from Indonesia's other development partners providing
     related support.
Policy Area 2: Sustaining Critical Expenditures and Budget Discipline
5. Established a crisis monitoring and response system in anticipation of a possible             Fulfilled
     growth slowdown or crisis.
6. Submitted a Presidential decree on Coordination of National Poverty Reduction                 Fulfilled
     efforts to the President for his signature.
7. Included specific provisions in the 2009 budget law to sustain, and if necessary,             Fulfilled
     increase critical public expenditures in the event of a pronounced growth slowdown.
8. Implemented specific regulatory measures and socialization efforts to expedite                Fulfilled
     budget disbursement and enhance the ability of government to rapidly direct public
     expenditures to preempt, as well as mitigate, any adverse impacts of a growth
     slowdown.
Policy Area 3: Crowding in Private Investment and Supporting Exports
9. The Borrower has prepared and undertaken inter-ministerial review of a draft of a             Fulfilled
     Presidential Regulation on the 2007 Investment Law and Investment Negative List
     (DNI) that accommodates Indonesia’s international commitments on sectoral
     restrictions and clarifies the status of publicly listed companies, foreign equity limits
     for direct investment, grandfathering and the creation of investment restrictions
     beyond those stipulated in the Investment Negative List.
10. Took steps to increase transparency regarding revenues from extractive industries            Fulfilled
     by:
     a. Issuing a memorandum of understanding among the Coordinating Minister for
          Economic Affairs, Minister of Finance and Minister of Energy and Mineral
          Resources on Transparansi Pendapantan Negara Yang Diperoleh dari Industri
          Ekstraktif
     b. Issuing a letter from the Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs, to the
          Secretariat of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative initiating the
          process of application to EITI.
11. Opened a re-discount window for trade finance through Bank Indonesia and created             Fulfilled
     an Export Financing Agency

                                                      4
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Urgency to mitigate the uncertainty. The high level of uncertainty created by the global
financial crisis – with memories of the social and economic turmoil of the 1997/1998
financial crisis still resonating in Indonesia-- created an urgency to push through the
reforms in order to obtain the contingent financing package. Unlike in the crisis of the
late 1990s, this time Indonesia’s macroeconomic framework was on a solid footing. The
government did not want the domestic financial market impact of increased global risk
averseness to derail its development efforts and there was a shared sense of urgency at all
levels and branches of government that made them highly committed to undertaking the
reforms and to demonstrate that they were active in taking preventive measures. The GoI
would frequently cite that they were securing contingent financing, and having
announced so to markets and the public, this also became an additional motivator to
follow through.

Leveraging donor partnerships. The size of the contingent financing was critical in
persuading financial markets that the government would meet its financing needs. The
total package from all four development partners was USD 5.5 billion, of which USD 2
billion was from the World Bank. The package covered 21 percent of financing needs,
sending a strong market signal. And, although the full amount from all partners was not
ready by the time the PESF went to the Board, there was sufficient credibility that it
would be put in place.

Strong government partnership and field presence. The PESF was able to move
forward quickly in great part thanks to the presence of an actively engaged team on the
ground that already had strong working relationships with involved government
counterparts. In addition, several of the reforms supported by the PESF operation built
upon reforms previously supported in past DPLs. As a result there was a continuation of
dialogue and counterpart involvement on the critical issues as opposed to starting from
scratch.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The key M&E issue was to monitor the progress on the government’s financing plan and
whether conditions for withdrawal had been met. As part of the PESF prior actions, this
was agreed to be done through quarterly reviews of the status of the financing plan with
the government and development parnters. The financing situation never deteriorated to
the point that withdrawal triggers were met, but GoI and partners significantly increased
their economic surveillance and monitoring efforts to ensure they would be able to act
quickly should the need arise. This was facilitated by financing from AusAID provided to
the World Bank as an ‘Externally Funded Output’ – EFO.

Although the PESF operation is now closed, monitoring of progress in the areas
supported by the operation continue as part of regular economic monitoring activities of
the World Bank and as part of the broad engagement that the World Bank has in a
number of areas, e.g. ongoing macroeconomic and financial assessments, ongoing
monitoring of the time profile of budget disbursement, public expenditure composition
                                              5
and poverty and employment effects of economic shocks; and ongoing monitoring of
investment climate and trade-related activities (through the Multi Donor Fund for Trade
and Investment Climate).

Other monitoring activities were incorporated in the PESF program prior actions,
including:
 Implementation of the Financial Sector Assessment Program;
 Establishment of DIPA monitoring committee consisting of the relevant senior MoF
    and Bappenas officials to track on a monthly basis the progress on expediting budget
    disbursement;
 Establishment of a crisis monitoring and response system with GoI; and
 Information gathering and diagnostic work as part of the EITI preparation

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

The Bank had encouraged the government to seek a cost-free extension of the PESF
beyond its closing date of December 31, 2010. However, market conditions had
stabilized and the government did not feel that extending the PESF was warranted and the
operation was closed. As a result, follow-up work in the different policy areas will
continue under different instruments and projects, as mentioned in the M&E Section.

Part of the reason for the closing was that the operation, despite the very low probability
of the loan being drawn down given market conditions and the Government’s intention to
use it only if market conditions significantly deteriorate, counted 100 percent toward the
capital headroom of Indonesia. A closing of the operation would free up capital to
undertake other loans.

Although not a follow-up operation, currently the government and the Bank are working
together on a separate DDO, the Indonesia Food Access Program, with a similar logic
(contingent financing for an emergency). The operation seeks to support GoI efforts to
improve food security in Indonesia, through a series of policy interventions along three
lines: (i) long-term revitalization of agricultural production, (ii) stabilization of domestic
food prices, and (iii) introduction of emergency measures to support the poor and
vulnerable should food prices spike.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The PESF was a highly relevant instrument that was successful in achieving its primary
objective of sustaining public expenditures by lending credibility to the government at a
time of high uncertainty in global financial markets. The PESF was structured to provide
financing in tranches matching the government’s financing plan when market conditions
reached a certain threshold and the government requested withdrawal. At the same time

                                              6
as financing conditions started to improve in many emerging countries, the decisive
policy actions taken by GoI, as reflected in the PESF policy matrix, combined with
access to contingent financing in case of deteriorating financing conditions, contributed
to a calming of markets which allowed GoI to meet its financing needs from markets as
planned.

Conditional Drawdown Design. The PESF was designed to avoid being drawn-down
fully and immediately by being subject to a) a pre-determined worsening of market
financing conditions and b) in line with the country’s immediate financing needs. The
World Bank assisted GoI in the design of the facility in a way that it would boost
Indonesia’s credibility with investors -- by having access to these funds it meant that
Indonesia could weather a rise in borrowing costs or restricted market access due to the
externally-driven financial crisis over a longer period of time. At the same time, by
making the support contingent in nature, GoI ensured that it would tap these funds only
when needed. This nature of the PESF played favorably in the market and investors were
also reassured by the fact that Indonesia, as opposed to many other countries, did not
draw down the loan immediately but kept it as an insurance mechanism. Spreads on
government bonds started to decline around the time of the signing of the DDO. Though
the drop also coincided with some calm in global markets, investor surveys show that
they were reassured about Indonesia’s prospects because the contingent financing was in
place, though other factors were also important, such as the policy measures taken by the
Government, including those supported by the PESF, global developments and the fact
that Indonesia’s macroeconomic indicators remained favorable.

Another related design issue was determining the thresholds triggers for disbursement.
This was kept confidential to avoid market manipulation. Some government officials
expressed concerns that threshold triggers might have been too high. Unlike other
countries that drew down their DDOs, the GoI had to continue meeting its financing
needs from markets at relatively higher rates even though they had secured more
favorable funding. This, however, was the trade-off— if Indonesia used up the DDO and
conditions deteriorated, there would be no more such emergency financing available, or
they could save the DDO for when conditions were prohibitively high and they would be
insured longer. Given the finite amount of funds the DDO could provide, and the
volatility Indonesia was facing, the latter seemed the more appropriate route. This said,
there were a number of discussions to reach consensus that this was the appropriate
course.

The nature of the facility may not have been fully understood by all government
stakeholders, nor did the fact that the World Bank would need to set aside the US$2
billion in the event Indonesia called the funds. The World Bank often had to explain why
the front-end fee for US$5 million was necessary and also put it in perspective with
expected savings. In part this was because, in such a turbulent period, it is almost
impossible to state definitively how much the market spread was reduced by having the
contingency financing in place, or what the counterfactual would have been had there
been no package.



                                           7
However, some rough calculations give an indication that the benefits of the PESF may
well have been more substantial than the cost of the front-end fee. For example, in the
first quarter of 2009 - the peak time of the crisis in which the DDO would have had its
strongest impact on the market – Indonesia issued around US$ 600 million in domestic
currency fixed rate government securities, by face value. If the weighted average coupon
of these instruments of 11 percent was just 0.15 percent below what it would have been
in the absence of the PESF DDO operation, then the lower coupon payments over the life
of the securities would have offset the US$ 5 million front-end fee. Alternatively,
domestic interest payments in 2009 implied an average interest rate of 9.19 percent. If the
interest rate without the PESF was just 0.007 percent higher, ie 9.2003 percent, the higher
interest payments in 2009 alone would have been greater than the front-end fee. Although
it is difficult to precisely estimate the exact impact that the facility had on financing costs,
the numbers in this paragraph show, particularly based on discussions with government
officials and market analysts, how likely it is that the PESF DDO saved the Government
of Indonesia significant resources.

Selection of Priority Actions. Given the crisis response nature of the operation, the team
had to select reforms that were feasible to achieve in a short period of time and yet
substantive enough to provide reassurance to investors. Not surprising, this limited the
field of potential priority actions. Still, the priority actions were substantive and in some
cases represented a push in clearing some major bottlenecks in pending reforms—e.g.
enacting financial safety net regulations, crisis coordination, investment law, and EITI—
and on most of these there was no back tracking but even an acceleration of activity post-
PESF. On other priority actions, the urgency with which reforms were pursued was
limited to the emergency period, e.g. reforms to accelerate budget disbursements. In 2009,
the government increased efforts increase budget disbursements earlier in the year, and
threatened lower budgets for those line ministries that did not. This incentivized the
ministries to spend as there was close monitoring of the spending. However, by 2010, the
pressure had eased off and there was less political will to carry out the threat of budget
cuts to ministries with poor execution performance. Ideally, it would have been better if
that reform had been designed to be more sustainable—but given the time frame in which
the PESF was prepared, trigger selection had to be prioritized to ensure that government
spending could stimulate domestic demand in 2009. The financial safety net government
regulation has since expired, and the legal framework for Bank Indonesia or Ministry of
Finance to intervene troubled banks is currently inadequate.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Overall Rating: Satisfactory

Policy Area 1: Financial Markets and Financial System Stability
Rating: Satisfactory

Decomposing the impact of the PESF on Indonesia’s financial market indicators from
that of other domestic policy and political developments, and global policy responses to
the crisis is clearly a difficult task. Domestic and international bond yields (Figure 1 and
Figure 2) point to the particularly sharp increase in financing costs seen by Indonesia in
                                               8
late 2008 and the marked decline in the first half of 2009. For example, at its peak in
October 2008, the spread in local currency five-year yields between Indonesia and
Malaysia/Thailand was about 1500 basis points compared to around 500 bp a year earlier.
Likewise on the Emerging Markets Bond Index (EMBI) index, the decrease in
Indonesia’s spreads between March 2009, when the operation was approved, and May
2009, was the third largest decrease of the 41 emerging economies covered by the EMBI
(only Ukraine and Kazakhstan had higher percentage spread declines).

    Figure 1. 5-Year Local Currency Government Bond Yields for Select Asian
                                  Economies
                               Percent                                                                                     Percent
                     25                                                                                                                            25


                     20                                                                                                                            20
                                                                Indonesia

                     15                                                                                                                            15


                     10                                                                                                                            10


                      5                       Philippines                                                                                          5

                                                                               Malaysia                                 Thailand
                      0                                                                                                                            0
                      Jan-08                          Jan-09                       Jan-10                      Jan-11

Source: CEIC



Figure 2. External sovereign government bond yields and international market
volatility
                    Spread,                                                                                                                          VIX
                                                      EMBIG Indonesia spread, LHS
                    basis                                                                                                                          index
                    points                            EMBIG spread, LHS
                                                      VIX equity market volatility index, RHS

                    1200                                                                                                                               90
                    1000                                                                                                                               75
                     800                                                                                                                               60
                     600                                                                                                                               45
                     400                                                                                                                               30
                     200                                                                                                                               15
                       0                                                                                                                               0
                           Sep-08
                                    Dec-08
                                             Mar-09
                                                       Jun-09
                                                                 Sep-09
                                                                          Dec-09
                                                                                    Mar-10
                                                                                             Jun-10
                                                                                                      Sep-10
                                                                                                               Dec-10
                                                                                                                        Mar-11
                                                                                                                                 Jun-11
                                                                                                                                          Sep-11




Source: JP Morgan
Note: VIX is a measure of equity market volatility as implied by options on US S&P 500
equity index.



                                                                                     9
The PESF appeared to play a stabilizing role in reassuring financial markets and
keeping the financial system stable in the first half of 2009. In the period running up to
the signing of the PESF, Indonesia’s secondary market spreads came down sharply from
their peaks of late 2008. Discussions with international and domestic investment analysts
conducted for this ICR pointed to the role of the contingent financing of the PESF, along
with the supporting policy measures, in this downturn in market yields. However, other
domestic factors were also cited, including the strength of policy leadership from the
Ministry of Finance, the level of reserves and strong underlying domestic macro
conditions, plus the political stability of the outcome of the April 2009 elections. In
addition, as seen in the parallel falls in the gradual declines in overall emerging market
sovereign bond spreads and international equity market volatility, global factors may also
have played a role. These include, for example, announcements of fiscal stimulus
packages and quantitative easing in the US and the significant expansion in the financing
available from the IMF.

Since mid-2009 Indonesia has seen strong capital inflows, reduced financing costs and
strong increases in equity prices. Indonesia’s sovereign ratings have been upgraded a few
notches and now stand one notch below investment grade. However, the experiences of
sharp outflows in May 2010 and in August and September 2010 serve as reminders of the
ongoing sensitivity of portfolio capital flows to Indonesia to reversals in international
investor sentiment.

Banks have continued to report healthy profits and high levels of capital. Following
the crisis, the measures put in place – regulations on a financial safety net, increase in
deposit guarantee, and widening assets banks can use as collateral for borrowing from the
central bank—demonstrated the ability of the government to move quickly to reassure the
markets. As a result, despite the rapid depreciation of the rupiah and the rising cost of
credit, no banking crisis ensued and real growth was relatively unscathed. Banks continue
to do well and are highly profitable—in 2010, driven by credit growth of 23 percent,
bank profits were up 27 percent from 2009 levels. Current indicators are also strong with
system wide capital adequacy ratio of 17.6 percent and non-performing loans are at
historic lows of 2.8 percent (June 2011).

In addition to the short-term measures to shore up the system, the PESF was
successful in bringing about actions with benefits in the medium term. The first, as
part of the financial safety net, was the shortening of time that banks can be placed under
surveillance. Prior to this there was no exit strategy and in the case of Bank Century,
without a strict time frame, it remained under government sponsorship for over a year.
The lack of action is partly what led to its problems as there was no deadline and
therefore no push to be resolved. With the new regulation in place, this ensured timely
action on bank failure resolution, reducing the risk of transmission to the rest of the
banking sector. Unfortunately the financial safety net government regulation has since
expired and not legislation has been put in place to replace it. This leaves Bank Indonesia
and the Ministry of Finance with an inadequate legal framework to intervene troubled
banks should the need arise again. The recently passed Financial Services Authority or
OJK Law will regulate and supervise the banking sector, capital markets and non-bank

                                            10
financial institutions and provides an opportunity for improved coordination in supervision
across the financial sector. However, implementation will go through a transition period in
which there will be supervisory risks. The Law does not necessarily provide the relevant
Indonesian authorities with an appropriate legal mandate and framework to deal with
financial institutions under stress, and it will therefore be important to put in place a financial
sector safety net law that does this.

Since the PESF, Indonesia’s first Financial Sector Assessment Program was
completed (March 2010), a process initiated under the PESF. In addition to being a
requirement for G-20, having the process in the PESF helped jumpstart the process and
marked a significant step forward in Indonesia’s commitment to financial and regulatory
transparency. Though initially there was skepticism on conducting an FSAP and what it
might reveal, in the end the report was generally positive and very complimentary of the
work done since the Asian crisis.

The emergency measures supported by the PESF–such as regulations on the higher
deposit guarantee and broader collateral acceptance--are still in place, though not being
used and therefore incur no cost. However, when the deposit guarantee was increased, the
premiums were not increased and as such the guarantee fund is technically not adequately
funded. But as the system is currently not under stress, it is not a critical issue, though the
government should address this mismatch either by increasing the premiums or lowering
the deposit guarantee ceilings.

Policy Area 2: Sustaining Critical Public Expenditures
Rating: Satisfactory

In the 1997-98 crisis, the economy was hit hard twice—first through the financial
implosion, and then later when this affected the government’s ability to borrow, spending
was cut, negatively impacting the economy again. This time around, the government
sought to prevent this from occurring and therefore the principle objective to this policy
area was to maintain, and if necessary, increase critical public expenditures to preempt
and mitigate adverse economic impacts of any growth slowdown.

In this respect, the triggers supported the stimulus package which included specific
provisions in the 2009 budget law to sustain, and if necessary, increase critical public
expenditure in the event of a pronounced growth slowdown. The PESF also supported
the implementation of regulatory measures to expedite budget disbursement and enhance
the government’s ability to rapidly spend public expenditures.

The government was successful in maintaining public expenditures – and in fact
both social and infrastructure investments as a share of CG expenditures rose
significantly in 2009 relative to 2008. Social expenditures share of CG expenditures
rose 3.4 percent to account for 11.7 percent of CG expenditures. Likewise, the share of
infrastructure expenditures also rose 2.2 percent. Government spending was effective in
stimulating demand, with GDP growing at 4.6 percent (third fastest in G-20 behind China
and India).

                                                11
The government also made impressive strides in smoothing out their capital
expenditure disbursements, an area Indonesia consistently underperforms in.
Capital expenditure disbursements in the first half of 2009 rose to 27% from 21% in 2008,
underscoring the government’s commitment to execute the budget and stimulate domestic
demand. The change in disbursement pattern however did not last beyond the 2009 crisis
year and in fact deteriorated notably. The change was not sustainable because the effort
to increase budget disbursement was based on a relatively intensive monitoring of line
ministries expenditures with threats of budget cuts of unused amounts, but not a systemic
institutional change. Therefore when the political motivation wore off as the economy
recovered, so did the monitoring efforts.

                    Table 1. Monitoring Indicators for Public Expenditure
                                 Unit                         2008         2009       2010
   Social expenditures           % of CG exp                         8.3      11.7       10.0
   Infrastructure expenditures   % of CG exp                         6.2        8.4       6.0
                                 % disbursement in first
   Capital expenditures                                          20.9         26.7       17.3
                                 semester of revised budget
   Fiscal deficit                % of GDP                        -0.1          -1.6      -0.6
   GDP growth                    %                                6.0           4.6       6.1
   Inflation                     %                                9.8           4.8       5.1

While the above triggers focused on the short-term need to expedite budget
disbursements, other triggers in the policy area addressed improving the
government’s institutional ability to protect the poor. These triggers included the
establishment of a crisis monitoring and response system in anticipation of a growth
slowdown, and a decree for the formal coordination of the country’s national poverty
reduction efforts.

The national Crisis Monitoring and Response System (CMRS) was established to deepen
the understanding of how the global economic crisis was affecting households and
individuals, which responses were required and where, and how effective these responses
were in alleviating the adverse effects of the crisis. The system was established at the
National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas) in close collaboration with Statistics
Indonesia (BPS). Technical support was provided by SMERU Research Institute and the
World Bank, and the project was financed by the Australian Agency for International
development (AusAID).
The system monitored household outcomes through a panel household survey that
covered about 15,000 households across Indonesia. The survey collected data on key
indicators that were not available through existing data sources, or could not be collected
in a timely manner so that response mechanisms could be quickly triggered if needed.
Statistics Indonesia conducted three rounds of the survey during August 2009, November
2009 and February 2010. The first and third waves piggybacked with the National Labor
Force Survey (Sakernas), while the second was a stand-alone survey. Quantitative
analysis based on the survey data was complemented by qualitative studies conducted by
SMERU. The findings from all studies were synthesized in a joint final report.

                                                 12
A prototype dashboard reporting system was developed which displayed national,
provincial and district-level results from the CMRS surveys and other selected data. This
dashboard was shared with selected developers and end-users to collect feedback on
functionality and interface. The monitoring system indicated that households in Indonesia
experienced the negative effects of the global crisis only mildly. Therefore, little
government response was required. Some additional funds, however, were made
available through the government’s National Community Empowerment Program
(Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Mandiri, PNPM). Targeted regions were
selected taking into account the CMRS monitoring results.

Considerable experience was gained over the CMRS project which was a successful
partnership in response to the global economic crisis. As different kind of crises and
shocks may occur anytime, the GoI has shown a strong interest in establishing a long-
term, permanent vulnerability and shock monitoring and response system based on this
prototype.

As a follow up of the efforts to better coordinate anti-poverty programs during the
crisis, the President issued a regulation (No. 15/2010) that formally established a
National Team for the Acceleration of Poverty Reduction (Tim Nasional Percepatan
Penaggulangan Kemiskinan, TNP2K). This cabinet-level body is responsible for
leading the coordination and oversight of all poverty reduction programs under all three
clusters of the national poverty reduction strategy. Vice-President Boediono chairs the
National Team, which will include all government agencies responsible for the planning,
financing and implementation of poverty reduction programs.

The regulation mandated the establishment of an Executive Secretariat, which is housed
in the Office of the Vice-President. The Secretariat is responsible for: drafting policies
guiding reform and expansion of national programs, supporting coordination and
integration functions, and conducting analyses and providing technical and administrative
support for the National Team. To carry out these functions, the Secretariat has
established a number of working groups covering household-based social assistance
programs; community-driven development programs; support for micro- and small-sized
enterprises to support job creation; developing a national targeting system; and
integrating monitoring and evaluation functions.

The National Team's Secretariat has already made some headway in integrating poverty
reduction efforts, such as the preparation of a national registry from which agencies
implementing anti-poverty programs will be required to extract their beneficiary lists.
Methods used to establish the registry will help improve the accuracy of the targeting of
household-based social assistance programs. Other efforts are also underway to prepare
an integrated monitoring and evaluation system, which will help improve inter-
departmental accountability and can be used to support improvements in the design and
implementation of individual poverty reduction programs.




                                           13
Policy Area 3: Facilitating private investment and supporting exports
Rating: Satisfactory

Policy Area 3 also combined addressing short term needs -- a trigger on opening a re-
discount window for trade finance-- and longer term reforms that would facilitate the
private investment climate by removing elements of uncertainty and improving
transparency (clarity on the investment law and investment negative list and initiating the
application process for EITI— thereby improving transparency in the energy and
minerals sector).

As the global financial crisis spread, addressing the tightening of trade finance was
seen as a critical issue to sustain trade flows for Indonesia. The cost of trade was
rising, with bank customers asking to put 80-100% cash margin to get a letter of credit,
whereas before the margin was 20-30%. As a result, the volume of trade financing fell
while its cost increased. Recognizing that easing trade financing would help diminish the
slowdown in export growth at a time of a slowing economy, Bank Indonesia activated a
re-discount window for trade receivables. Although it was not used--because it ended up
being too expensive-- it served as a strong signaling effect that the government was
willing to provide liquidity to promote trade financing. By the first quarter of 2009, trade
financing had eased and returned to normal. To ensure that such a facility would exist
past the crisis, Parliament passed a law establishing the Indonesian Eximbank to provide
an additional window of trade financing, which will support rediscount facilities for
commercial banks and extend access to trade financing to small and medium exporters.
Recently the government injected Rp 3 billion in capital to Eximbank, since then the
bank has been actively providing guarantees for pre-export financing to Indonesian
exporters and providing a more competitive field in the banking sector for trade financing.

To ease investor uncertainty and encourage investment in the medium-term, the
PESF sought to improve the investment climate by clarifying the rules and relaxing
restrictions of the 2007 investment negative list. Following the review of the DNI
supported by this operation, in May 2010, Indonesia’s President signed a new Decree on
Indonesia’s Investment Negative list – Perpres 36/2010. The Perpres is a major
implementing regulation for Indonesia’s Investment Law of 2007, and replaces the
previous investment negative list from 2007. According to BKPM, 40 business fields are
more open to investment while 10 are more closed. However, it is difficult to determine
whether the net effect of the change is an improvement in the investment climate. This
depends on how narrowly or broadly one defines sectors. The sectors that are more open
include heath, creative industries, and construction services. The most significant sector
that is now more closed to investment is cell towers. Cell towers are highly politicized
and reflect growing protectionist sentiment with the Ministry of Communications and
Information Technology. Cell towers were added to the investment negative list
following a joint ministerial decree originally issued in 2008.

Although it had been hoped that the Perpres 36/2010 would resolve the uncertainties
regarding implementation of Indonesia’s Investment Law, discussions with the private
sector indicate that considerable uncertainty remains. As a result, the Investment

                                            14
Coordinating Board has been reviewing implementation problems and plans on
submitting recommendations for improved implementing language to the Investment
Working Group of Timnas PEPI.

With the exception of cell towers, government ministries have refrained from adding new
restrictions on investment. Such restrictions are only added after passing through the
inter-ministerial process. Parliament, though, has passed several sector laws that include
restrictions on foreign investment, or have the potential to restrict investment pending
implementing regulations. These include the laws on Shipping, Mining, Post,
Horticulture, and Land Protection for Sustainable Food.

Overall, investor sentiment has continued to trend positively and this is supported by
higher foreign direct investment. FDI is projected to reach a record net inflows worth
US$11 billion in 2011, significantly higher than prior to the 2008 crisis. Strong foreign
investment numbers, up 52 percent in 2010 on 2009, were also reported by the
investment agency, BKPM, which is forecasting a further 22 percent rise in 2011. This
said, the ratio of FDI to GDP remains below many of Indonesia’s regional peers.
Nevertheless, the positive outlook is supported by anecdotal evidence of new investment
projects and country agreements, for example, with Japan, India, Singapore, China,
Korea and the US.

In particular, the PESF sought to improve the investment climate in the Mining and
Minerals Sector, an area of great potential in Indonesia, but also fraught with legal
uncertainty. Indonesia has had a steady decline in oil production, and hence related
government revenues, for more than a decade—and indeed, since 2004, it has shifted
from being a net oil exporter to a net oil importer, despite having a quarter of its
petroleum basins still unexplored. A key impediment to new investment has been the lack
of certainty with regard to tax and revenue issues. Recognizing the need to demonstrate
the government’s solid commitment to improve transparency of public institutions and its
dealings with the private sector on the issue of revenue from extractive industries, the
government issued a letter to the Secretariat to initiate the process of application to
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), the international standard of oil, gas
and minerals transparency.

EITI improves the transparency or revenue collection by reconciling reports of revenue
and production streams from the oil, gas and mining firms (including state-owned) with
those from government agencies collecting the revenues. The two reports are submitted
to a multi-stakeholder Steering Group, which hires an independent Reconciler to cross-
check the two figures. The results of that reconciliation are then published

Since the PESF, progress has been notable. The initial letter fulfilled the first of 20
validation indicators for Indonesia to become EITI-compliant. The letter also served as a
platform from which an EITI Presidential Regulation was issued a little over a year later
(April 2010). Five months later Indonesia requested entrance into EITI as a candidate
country and was admitted into candidacy in October 2010. Indonesia now has two years
from that month to complete the process.

                                            15
Considerable work has been done to complete negotiations between government, industry
and NGO stakeholders on what will be the scope of the first round of EITI reporting and
reconcilation in Indonesia – specifically which firms and government agencies will
submit templates and what revenue streams to include. Reaching agreement on the
templates will accurately and meaningfully capture oil and gas production sharing (which
together account for about 20 percent of government revenue) and represents a significant
accomplishment in revenue transparency in the sector.

The private sector has responded favorably to Indonesia’s candidacy. Recently a group of
24 extractive industry firms (including oil and gas operators, hard rock mineral firms and
coal firms) actively participated in discussing and filling out the EITI reporting
templates.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

As the key objective of the PESF was to enable the government to continue financing its
public expenditures --and they were able to do so in part because the markets had
reassurance that they had access to finance-- then the PESF was highly satisfactory in
achieving this objective. Despite the initial punitive reaction of the markets and rapid
depreciation of the currency, Indonesia’s growth was one of the least impacted by the
crisis. Strong economic fundamentals were a strong part of its resilience, but the actions
by the government, supported in the PESF, also served as strong signaling mechanisms
that the government was taking the right measures to address the crisis.

The outcomes from the medium-term reforms/actions undertaken for the PESF have also
been satisfactory to highly satisfactory. With the issuances of the FSAP report, a
significant first step in improving transparency in the financial system was achieved and
more importantly the strengthening of a dialogue with the IMF on improving the
financial system. On public expenditure, crisis monitoring is now being integrated into
government systems and improvements in poverty coordination is being addressed at the
highest government level. The groundwork has been laid for improving transparency of
mineral revenues through the government’s commitment to EITI. While much work
remains on improving the investment climate, and there is sometimes back tracking,
investment levels are strong and continue to rise.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

During the 1997/98 crisis, the poverty rate rose considerably from 17.7 percent in 1996 to
24.2 percent in 1998, before trending down again in 1999. The government was keen to
avoid a repeat performance, and succeeded notably in that this time the poverty rate
continued to fall throughout the crisis, from 15.4 percent in 2008 to 14.2 in 2009, and as
low as 12.5 percent in 2011 -- showing that despite the economic crisis the government
was able to shield the poor.

                                              16
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Doing the PESF, has also set a precedent in the country to perhaps allow more insurance-
natured products that could provide a measure of stability in public finances. Indonesia’s
public financial management system is not set up to manage budgetary risks through risk
sharing mechanisms and the associated budgetary costs. However, the success of the
operation has brought in a new line of thinking for economic risk management. With a
tightening of financial markets a real risk for 2012, the Government has asked the World
Bank and other development partners support similar to that provided by the PESF,
contingent in nature and in support of a policy package that enhances Indonesia’s
resilience to economic and financial market shocks.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

One of the key impacts of the PESF has been the kick-off of the EITI process and the
government’s strong willingness to promote it. Prior to the PESF, momentum for EITI
had been stagnant as coordination and buy-in was not a priority. However, since the
process was initiated, the government has grabbed the momentum and pushed for the
participation of other ASEAN countries, notably for Malaysia, Thailand, the Philippines
and Vietnam to follow suit. Currently, of the East Asian countries, only Indonesia is an
EITI candidate, and Timor-Leste is the only East Asian country already EITI compliant.

Outside of the government, the EITI process has helped mobilize other stakeholders. An
organization called Publish What You Pay was formed comprising of 38 NGOs that will
monitor the implementation of EITI. Gas and oil companies are also actively
participating. Bringing transparency to the sector helps both the privates sector and the
general public—e.g. the total size of areas covered by permits that have been issued by
local governments across Kalimantan, in terms of hectares, is bigger than Kalimantan
itself. By having to report on permits, clarity in the licensing process should bring
greater reassurance to firms while ensuring the public also receives the correct royalties.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

An informal survey of key stakeholders in the investment community was undertaken for
this ICR to find out whether the impact of the contingent financing, policy measures or
both impacted how they viewed Indonesia. Almost all respondents were aware that the
government had received the contingent financing, and more importantly this was a
factor – to varying degrees—of their improved outlook for Indonesia in 2009. Many also
referenced the steady macroeconomic conditions as a key factor for their improved
outlook.

Less well known was what were the accompanying reforms, and it seemed the nature of
the accompanying reforms had a lesser impact on the investors. One respondent,
however, did note that, since this was a package from the World Bank they assumed the
reforms would take the country in the right direction, and therefore they were less
concerned about the details. However, while investors may not have been aware of the


                                            17
specific reforms supported through the DDO, as the measures were approved—
particularly the financial safety net measures—the market did respond favorably.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   Rating: Negligible to Low

The key development objective was the continued provision of financing for critical
government expenditures in the wake of the global financial crisis. As the PESF was an
emergency operation, its primary focus was on the country successfully navigating the
short run horizon. Having successfully weathered the crisis—and with relatively modest
impact on growth-- risk to the key development outcome is no longer an issue. However,
the PESF also supported policy reforms with medium-term outcomes, and the risk across
these varies as discussed below.

Financial Stability (Medium): Financial markets have since stabilized, the exchange
rate has strengthened, and the government continues to successfully access the market
with financing costs coming down to historic lows. Turbulences in financial markets
since August 2011 have once again shown that Indonesia remains exposed to sudden
reversals of investor sentiment and significant capital outflows. But they have also shown
that Indonesia is more resilient and has also built the necessary defense mechanisms to
overcome periods of heightened financial market volatility. As mentioned before, the
financial safety net government regulation has expired and an adequate legal framework
has not been put in place to replace it, making an intervention by Bank Indonesia and the
Ministry of Finance in troubled banks less likely. And finally, Indonesia’s first FSAP
report, which was highly complementary of the financial system, was completed and
submitted to the Board in May 2011.

Public Expenditures (Low): While the key objective was to expedite budget
disbursements for that year, and this the government successfully achieved, less
successful was its ability to smooth out capital disbursement beyond that one year. The
medium-term policy reform to develop a national crisis monitoring and response system
is underway and has full political support. The benefits of coordination are likely to keep
the momentum underway.

Investment Climate (Moderate - Low): Reforms to the investment climate are often
highly political and as such there is always the risk of backtracking of reforms and
growing protectionist sentiment, as occurred recently when the government slapped
levies on foreign films to promote domestic films. While the general trend is toward
improvement of the investment climate and reduced uncertainty for investors, too often
vested interests can get in the way. Overall though, investors are finding Indonesia an
attractive investment destination as evidence by the growing investment inflows.

On EITI, the risk that Indonesia will not make it through EITI is low. Several factors are
supporting its candidacy. First, EITI has an internal enforcement mechanism and all
candidate countries must undergo independent validation 2.5 years after becoming
candidates (Indonesia's validation deadline is April 2013). The validation process is

                                            18
rigorous, and requires that 20 different indicators be fulfilled – of which Indonesia has
completed 9, placing it ahead of schedule. Second, as a part of its Chairmanship of
ASEAN, Indonesia has been aggressively promoting EITI, therefore there is strong
commitment and effort underway to see EITI through. Given the leadership role it has
taken in promoting EITI, it is unlikely that Indonesia will want to be part of the small
group of countries (two so far) that have been delisted.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
   Rating: Satisfactory

Though the operation was done in a short period of time, it was highly effective in
identifying short term measures that had strong signaling effects to the market, and it also
supported significant reforms in all three policy areas that will likely have a lasting longer
term impact. The operation was able to draw from an extensive array of other Bank
instruments, including several programmatic trust-funded TA and AAA programs. These
ensured the veracity of the needed reforms, and the continuity of the TA programs meant
team members had productive relationships with their government counterparts. The
team also worked in close collaboration with the other development partners—
Government of Japan, Government of Australia, and the Asian Development Bank—to
leverage the operation and provide a harmonized policy front.

During a period of crisis, the Bank team was able to design an innovative DDO –one that
could provide fuller coverage throughout the crisis, rather than a standard DDO that
principally provides a lower cost financing option to the markets. The Government
committed to draw down the loan only under certain circumstances as specified in the
Financing Plan for 2009, and this ensured that Indonesia would only be drawing down if
the cost of market borrowing was prohibitively high, rather than using the DDO to
substitute for lower cost financing but then not having any other recourse once the DDO
was exhausted (optimal buffer stock management).

At the time of preparation, there were internal discussions in the Bank on whether it was
appropriate to make the ability of GoI to withdraw the funds contingent on borrowing
costs going above a certain level. In the end, the team, both from the GoI and WB side,
was able to push for the former, and this too the team achieved in a short period of time.
In the end, tightening the contingent nature of the PESF was highly beneficial. To the
GoI, it helped provide assurance that there was a cap on the cost of debt, it allowed GoI
to successfully issue bonds in the market and it also boosted the country’s credentials that
they did not unnecessarily tap the funds.




                                             19
(b) Quality of Supervision
   Rating: Satisfactory

As this was a DPL type operation, all conditions were completed upfront. Intensive
economic surveillance and monitoring was carried out by GoI and the Bank, supported by
development partners, throughout the duration of the operation. This resulted in increased
capacity on GoI side to monitor economic developments and formulate macroeconomic
projections. After the closing of the operation, ongoing monitoring is conducted through
work on existing projects and engagements.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

Overall rating for Bank Performance is Satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the
government to ensure that the reforms were appropriate, feasible, and delivered in a
timely fashion. The innovation and effectiveness of the loan earned the team a Regional
Vice President Award, and stands as a model of how to leverage Bank instruments and
donor coordination.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
   Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The government’s commitment to seeing the PESF through was very high, this was an
operation that was given top priority. It had high level support and the Bank team worked
with some of the most able Indonesian government officials in the preparation of this
operation. The government was able to push for traction on items that had previously
stalled (e.g. EITI, FSAP) or were traditionally weak, (e.g. capital disbursement). More
notable is that momentum on several of the reforms continued beyond the loan signing.
Concerns about the sustainability of results discussed in this ICR (on the financial safety
net government regulation, further progress on improving budget disbursements) are
noted, but to a certain extent this is natural. The sense of urgency that made this operation
possible in such a short period of time waned as the economic situation improved and
financial markets normalized, and the reforms supported by this operation now have to
compete with other priority reforms. In light of the above, the team considers that the
borrower’s performance at the time of the crisis, in the preparation and implementation of
this operation, was highly satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
   Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Implementation was done through Coordinating Ministry of the Economy and the
Ministry of Finance. Throughout the process they provided constant attention to ensure
that needed measures were taken, effective cross-ministerial coordination maintained,
and conditions fulfilled. Their drive to achieve the needed frameworks and reforms,


                                             20
particularly those that required over coming strong political resistance, was quite
commendable.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
   Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Given the strong signaling effects the government reforms made and the strong
continuing efforts on the medium-term reforms beyond what was required in the PESF,
the borrower’s performance is deemed Highly Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

As with the DPL series, strong government ownership and the Bank’s extensive
engagement on the ground were key contributing aspects of a successfully executed
operation. Still, the use of a DDO was a new experience for the Indonesia office and
some key lessons came to light.

When uncertainty is high, but a country’s fundamentals are strong, the Bank can be
an effective partner in helping to reassure the markets. As it was the first time since
the 1997-98 Asian crisis that market volatility was so severe, there was a great fear that
the country would be ensnared in the global financial crisis, despite the sounder
macroeconomic fundamentals it held this time around. Given the market conditions it
was facing, the GoI was highly motivated to secure contingent financing in the form of
the PESF. They sought to implement reforms that would demonstrate their commitment
to aggressively addressing the crisis head on, but also to market that they had the backing
of the international community. As such, the PESF represented a prime opportunity to
harness the government’s motivation and reforms with an almost costless solution to their
market problems.

Access to financing was not sufficient on its own to calm markets. As several
investors in the survey pointed out, Indonesia’s strong macro fundamentals, such as the
government’s decision to a limited budget deficit despite potential revenue short falls,
were key to reassuring markets that Indonesia was stable. Without the government’s
strong commitment to prudent economic policies, the DDO would probably have had
limited success. The credibility of the DDO package is only as effective as the
government’s credibility in maintaining macro stability.

Sending a strong signaling effect can be as effective as providing straight financial
support. The PESF-DDO provided an innovative approach to support the government by
reassuring markets that Indonesia had access to resources should market volatility be too
punitive. The signaling effect was made stronger by having other development partners
commit $3.5 billion in contingency support – even as it took nearly a year later for some
of those funds to be properly programmed through the partner’s respective legislative
process.

The sustainability of results in such emergency operations depends on post-crisis
priorities. The Government of Indonesia and all parties involved in the preparation of

                                            21
this operation devoted much attention at the time of the crisis. Economic surveillance and
monitoring was significantly increased by GoI and partners during supervision. However,
as the sense of urgency wore off, so did the attention of government officials to follow up
on some of the crisis-related policy actions, such as replacing the financial safety net
regulation with the necessary legal framework, or efforts to continue improving
government disbursement of capital expenditure. As a result, any future crisis will have
to revisit these issues. Therefore, although it may be possible to advance long term
reforms through this type of emergency operations, support will be better continued
through longer term reform operations (such as the regular DPL program).

Refining the DDO package. Unlike other DDO operations, the purpose of this DDO was
not to serve as a lower cost financing option, but rather as insurance against
prohibitively high financing costs which would jeopardize Indonesia’s development
efforts. Securing financing at accessible prices for a rainy day was more beneficial to GoI
than securing financing at cheaper prices in a relatively benign market environment, as it
was in mid 2009 and until the closing of the operation. GoI understood that the funds the
World Bank and other partners could provide were finite and it was therefore better to
keep them in store for when they would be really needed – which fortunately was never
the case. In many respects, the contingent nature of the financing and the fact that it was
available for such a long period of time was the best insurance and provided better crisis
management than a straight draw down of the DDO.

Counting 100 percent of the PESF percent towards Indonesia’s borrowing limit
ignored the contingent nature of the support being provided. Although the PESF-
DDO was specifically designed not to be drawn down immediately, its curtailed
headroom was assigned a probability of 100 percent, and even when it became clear that
the crisis had abated and it was extremely unlikely to be drawn down, the headroom
remained. For instruments such as this, particularly given the size, curtailing headroom
by the full 100 percent unfairly penalizes the lending program. This was an emergency
operation and the Bank should perhaps consider what should be a more appropriate
headroom treatment, such as allowing a separate headroom for emergency style
operations or to only count a percentage of the contingent financing until it is disbursed.
By combining restrictive drawdown conditions with extra headroom, the Bank could
offer a larger loan package, which in turn would strengthen market signaling and help
bring market rates down faster, as was the case in Indonesia.

Dissemination of the merits of a contingency-based operation is important to ensure
stakeholders have a good understanding of its costs and benefits. People that were
closely involved in discussions during the preparation of the PESF are well aware of the
benefits of the operation, particularly relative to the very low costs incurred by GoI.
Government counterparts in the Ministry of Finance and the Coordinating Ministry for
Economic Affairs mentioned that in a similar situation they would again go for the same
instrument – acknowledging that the design can always be improved. In fact, as the
external environment worsened at the end of 2011 and a tightening of financial markets
seems a very real possibility, the Government of Indonesia has requested support from
the World Bank and other development partners similar to that provided under the PESF.

                                            22
However, there is also lack of understanding of what the operation was trying to achieve
and how successful it was in doing so. It would be important to better disseminate the
merits of the operation, and the results achieved, to ensure that it can be used again, both
in Indonesia and in other countries, should the need arise.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            23
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
           Names                              Title                      Unit
LENDING
P.S. Srinivas             Task Team Leader                             EASFP
Enrique Aldaz             Economist                                    EASPR
William Wallace           Lead Economist                               EASPR
Preeti S. Ahuja           Country Program Coordinator                  EACIQ
Shubham Chaudhuri         Sr Country Economist                         EASPR
Melinda Good              Senior Counsel                               LEGES
Peter Rosner              Investment Climate Specialist                EASFP
Djauhari Sitoris          Finance Specialist                           EASFP
Susan Wong                Sr. Social Development Specialist             EASID
Yogana Prasta             Sr. Operations Officer                        EACIF
Timothy Bulman            Consultant                                   EASPR
Tim Brown                 Sr Environment Specialist                     EASIS
Adam Sack                 IFC Director for Indonesia                   CEAR6
Hari Purnomo              Finance Specialist                           EASFP
Vivi Alatas               Sr. Poverty Economist                        EASPR
Sjamsu Rahardja           Trade Economist                              EASPR
The Fei Ming              Private Sector Specialist                    EASFP
David W. Brown            EITI Specialist                              SEGOM
Shienny Lie               Team Assistant                                EACIF
Imad Saleh                Senior Procurement Specialist                EAPPR

ICR
Enrique Blanco-Armas      Senior Economist                              EASPR
Elaine A. Tinsley         Consultant                                    LCSPE
Ashley Taylor             Economist                                     EASPR




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                          USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                          Total:                  44                    283.00
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:                  18                     76.00




                                             24
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

        n/a

Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

        n/a

Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

        n/a

Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

        n/a

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

1.   WB Documents: Report No. 47280-ID, ICR00001677
2.   Draft FSAP Aide-Memoire. Financial Sector Assessment Program March 2010.
3.   CoalAsia. Issue Volume 5. March 20-April 20, 2011
4.   Draft IEG Report on The World Bank’s Group Response to the Global Economic
     Crisis: Phase II.




                                         25
                    95°                            100°                         105°                            110°                         115°                       120°                        125°          This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  legal status of any territory,
              15°                                                                                                                                                                                                 or any endorsement or                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  acceptance of such
                                                        INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                 boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
                          MYANMAR
                                                                                                   VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                               PHILIPPINES                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
              10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10°                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                         THAILAND                                                                                                                         Sulu
                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      135°                    140°


               Banda Aceh
                                                                                           L          A        Y
              5°                                                               A                                          S        BRUNEI                                                                                                                                                                  5°
                            1
                                              Medan                     M                       Natuna
                                                                                                                               I                                                    Celebes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Talaud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Is.

                           Pematangsiantar
                                                                                                 Besar
                                                                                                                                                              Tarakan
                                                                                                                                                                                     Sea                                                      PACI F I C                 OCE AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                    24




                                                                                                                                   A
               Simeulue
                                                                                                 19                                                                                                                             Morotai
                                                2                                                                                                                                           Manado
                                                                               SINGAPORE                                                            23
                                Nias                                              Tanjungpinang                                                                                                             Ternate           Halmahera
                                                               Pekanbaru                                                                                                             25
              0°                                                   3                              Pontianak                           AN TAN
                                                                                                                              K AL IM ANTAN                                26              Gorontalo                                         Waigeo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0°
                                                                                      Lingga                          20                                  Samarinda                                                                                     Manokwari
                                       Me




                                              Padang                                                                                                                                                            30                                                             Biak
                                                                                                                                                         Balikpapan
                                                                                                                                                                          Palu                                                                     Sorong
                                                          4             5                                                                                                                      Peleng                      Obi
                                         nt




                                              Siberut                         Jambi        Bangka                                   21
                                         aw




                                                                                               Pangkalpinang                                                       SULAWESI                                                                 Misool     32              Yapen                   Jayapura
                                                              SUMATERA                                                    Palangkaraya
                                                                                                                                                         Mamuju
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sula Is.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ceram
                                              ai




                                                                                                 9                                              22
                                                                   6               Palembang              Belitung
                                                                                                                                                                 27                                                                Amahai Fakfak
                                                                                                                                                                         28
                                                  Is




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Buru
                                                                                   7                                          Bandjarmasin                                        29      Kendari                                                                              33     PAPUA
                                                    .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEW GUINEA
                                                         Bengkulu                                                                                             Parepare                                                 Ambon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Timika        Puncak Jaya
                                                                                      8                                                                                                      Muna                                                                                     (5030 m)
              5°                                                             Bandar                                  Java Sea                             Makassar                                                                                     Kai




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAPUA
                                                        Enggano
                                                                            Lampung
                                                                                        11                                                                                                 Baubau                        Banda 31                      Is.
                                                                                          JAKARTA
                   0       200         400 Kilometers                            Serang                                                                                                                                   Sea                                   Aru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Is.
                                                                                           12Bandung Semarang                      Madura
                                                                                      10                       13                                                                                               Wetar
                                                                                                                                   Surabaya                                                                                        Babar             Tanimbar
                   0      100      200      300        400 Miles                           JAWA          Yogyakarta
                                                                                                                                               16          Sumbawa                                  Alor                  Moa                        Is.
                                                                                                                                   15          Bali Lombok       Raba            Flores
                                                                                                                     14                                                                                                                                                                  Merauke
                    95°                            100°                         105°                                                 Denpasar       Mataram                         Ende                                                                    Arafura Sea
                                                                                                                                                                           18                                   TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                                                         17
               PROVINCES:                                                                                                                10°                     Waingapu Sumba                      Timor                                                                                                10°
                                                                                                                                                                                               Kupang
               1   NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM                    12      JAWA BARAT                         23   KALIMANTAN TIMUR
               2   SUMATERA UTARA                              13      JAWA TENGAH                        24   SULAWESI UTARA
               3   RIAU                                        14      D.I. YOGYAKARTA                    25   GORONTALO
               4
               5
                   SUMATERA BARAT
                   JAMBI
                                                               15
                                                               16
                                                                       JAWA TIMUR
                                                                       BALI
                                                                                                          26
                                                                                                          27
                                                                                                               SULAWESI TENGAH
                                                                                                               SULAWESI BARAT
                                                                                                                                                         INDIAN OCEAN
               6   BENGKULU                                    17      NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                28   SULAWESI SELATAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33420R2
               7   SUMATERA SELATAN                            18      NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR                29   SULAWESI TENGGARA
AUGUST 2008




               8   LAMPUNG                                     19      RIAU KEPULAUAN                     30   MALUKU UTARA              15°                                                                                                                                                              15°
               9   BANGKA-BELITUNG                             20      KALIMANTAN BARAT                   31   MALUKU
              10   BANTEN                                      21      KALIMANTAN TENGAH                  32   PAPUA BARAT                                                                                                            AUSTRALIA
              11   D.K.I. JAKARTA                              22      KALIMANTAN SELATAN                 33   PAPUA                         115°                       120°                        125°                              130°                            135°                    140°
