Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14314-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 22, 1995
Country Department I
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso (Arg$)
EXCHANGE RATE
(September 22, 1995)
US$1.00   Arg$1.00
Arg$1.00= US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APM                National Parks' Administration
Bank/FAO-CP        World Bank/Food and Agriculture Organization
Cooperative Program
CFI                Federal Investment Council
CIEFAP             Center for Forest Investigation and Extension in
Andean Patagonia
CNB                National Forestry Commission
CONADEPA           National Commission for the Promotion and
Development of Patagonia
DMU                Database Management Unit
DPF                Directorate for Forestry Production (within SAGyP)
DRFN               Directorate for Native Forests (within SRNyAH)
ESW                Economic and Sector Work
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GEF                Global Environment Facility
GIS                Geographic Information System
GNP                Gross National Product
GTZ                German Technical Assistance Agency
ICA                Institutional Capacity Analysis
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICGs               Institutional Capacity Gaps
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IFAD               International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFONA              Argentinean National Forestry Institute
INASE              National Seed Institute
INDEC              National Institute of Statistics
INTA               National Institute for Agricultural Research
ISC                Institutional Strengthening Component
LAC                Latin America and the Caribbean
LIB                Limited International Bidding
LOI                Letters of Invitation
MASL               Meters Above Sea Level
MERCOSUR           Common Market consisting of Argentina, Brazil,
Paraguay and Uruguay
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
OED                Operations Evaluation Department
PAR                Project Audit Report
POA                Annual Work Plan
PSA                Social Program for Agricultural Development
SAGyP              Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries
SBD                Standard Bidding Documents
SOE                Statement of Expenditure
SRNyAH             Secretariat of Natural Resources and Human
Environment
TOR                Terms of Reference



I



ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents'
Page N
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . ......................  i
I.  PLANTATIONS. TIMBER PROCESSING AND AGROFORESTRY  1
A. Background .1
B.  Priorities for Government Action.                                2
Economy-Wide Policies.                                   3
Sector Specific Policies.                                5
C.   Major Public Sector Institutions Involved.                      7
D.   Previous Bank Lending .................                       . 8
E.   Lessons from General Bank Experience.                           8
F. Bank Strategy.                                                    9
II. THE PROJECT .10
A. Origin and Concept .10
B. Project Objectives .10
C.   Project Description ...................... 10
Project Components .10
Institutional Strengthening .............. 11
Research and Information Generation and
Dissemination ................... 11
Small Farmers   ..................... 17
D. Costs and Financing .20
Project Costs .20
Project Financing .20
1.     This report incorporates the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Argentina between December 4 and 22, 1994. The mission consisted of Messrs. Michael
McGarry (Task Manager), Robert Kirmse and Alain Tobelem (Bank). It is also based on the
findings of previous Bank and Bank/FAO-CP missions consisting of Messrs. Michael
McGarry, Robert Kirmse, Alain Tobelem, Luis Constantino (Bank); and Richard Owen
(Bank/FAO-CP). The Peer Reviewers are Ms. Susan Chen (EA1AE) and Mr. William
Beattie (LA2NR). The Division Chief, Projects Adviser, and Department Director are Ms.
Constance Bernard, Mr. Orville Grimes, and Mr. Gobind T. Nankani, respectively.



Table of Contents
(Continued)
Page N'
E.    Procurement and Disbursements .......  .                       .  .  .  .  .  .     .  21
Procurement  ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                     .    .  21
Disbursements  ...........  .                   ..  ..  ..  .  ..     .  25
F.    Organization and Implementation   ......  .                    .  .  .  .  .  .     .  25
Project Management  . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation   .....                       .  28
Accounts, Audit and Reporting  ......  .                  .  .  .  .     .  28
G.    Rationale for Bank Involvement  .......  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .     .  29
H.    Program  Objective Categories  .......  .                    .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  29
I.     Benefits, Risks and Environmental Impact .....  .                     .  .     .  30
Benefits  ..............  ...  ...  ...  ..                           .  30
Risks ........................... . 30
Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
III. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED. AND
RECOMMENDATION    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Recommendation   .........  ..  .                   .  ..  .  .  ..     .  33
ANNEXES
A.    Lessons Learned from  Previous Related Bank Lending  .....  .                           .     .  34
B.    Institutional Strengthening Component  ......  .                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  39
C.    Research and Information Generation and Dissemination
Component   ..............  ...  ..  ...  ...  ..  ...  ..                               .  55
D.    Small Farmer Component .........  .                        ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  ..     .  74
E.    Project Costs   .................................  84
F.    Allocation of the Loan Proceeds ......................  95
G.    Schedule of Loan Disbursements   ..................... 96
H.    Schedule of Monitorable Actions   .....................  97
I.     Supervision Plan ............................... 102
J.     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File   ...                       .. 104
MAP: IBRD No. 26467



ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency:           Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and
Fisheries (SAGyP)
Beneficiaries:                 Those parts of the private sector involved
with forest plantations and timber
processing industries; 3,000 poor farm
families; and residents of Patagonia
Poverty:                       Program of Targeted Interventions. The
Small Farmer Component would be
targeted at poor farm families in selected
rural areas where the incidence of
poverty is substantially higher than
average.
Amount:                        US$16.0 million equivalent
Terms:                         Repayable in 15 years, including 5 years
of grace, with loan amortization based on
level repayments of principal, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:                0.75 percent on undisbursed loan
balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:               Not applicable
Financing Plan:                See para. 2.38
Net Present Value:             Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 14314-AR, dated September
22, 1995
Project Identification Number:  AR-PA-6040
Map:                           IBRD No. 26467






ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. PLANTATIONS, TIMBER PROCESSING AND AGROFORESTRY
A. Background
1.1         Argentina's forest plantations have clear natural advantages
compared with those in many countries. These advantages stem mainly
from: (a) the fast growth rates of trees in Argentina resulting from relatively
rich soils and favorable temperatures and rainfall; and (b) an abundance of
land with few alternative uses. In spite of these advantages, forest
plantations in earlier decades were not developed in line with the potential,
principally because of unfavorable macroeconomic, trade, and other policies.
In recent years many of these policies have been adjusted appropriately, and
the improved economic and policy environment now encourages investments.
1.2         The forest resources of Argentina are made up of both native
forests and plantations. Land with woody vegetation is estimated at about 64
million ha (23 percent of the total area of the country), of which forested
land is estimated at between 35 and 45 million ha. The area of native forest
with commercial potential is estimated at about 15 million ha; it produces
about 7.3 million m3 of wood per annum, equal to about 40 percent of the
country's annual production. The remainder comes from plantations, whose
area is estimated at about 900,000 ha.
1.3         The forestry sector in Argentina contributes just under 2
percent of GDP and had a positive trade balance of US$132.1 million in
1989. While it now contributes positively to the trade balance, this was
achieved only by 1988. The contrast between the performance of the
forestry sectors in Argentina and Chile could hardly be more striking. While
Argentina is about 3.7 times the size of Chile in area, and about 3 times its
size in terms of GDP, Chile's exports of forest products, at about US$1.0
billion annually, are almost 4 times greater than Argentina's.
1.4         From 1980 to 1989, the area under plantations in Argentina
grew only 7.5 percent. From 1970 to 1990, Argentina planted about 1
million ha of forests; over the same period, Brazil planted about 6 million
ha, and between 1978 and 1990, Chile planted 1.3 million ha. Chile
developed an export-oriented industry which enabled it to develop well
beyond the requirements of the domestic economy. Brazil suffered from
macroeconomic and policy distortions similar to those of Argentina, but the
size of the domestic market was much larger, enabling its forestry sector to
expand rapidly. Argentina was constrained both by macroeconomic and



- 2 -
sector policy distortions and by the small size of its domestic market. In
comparing Argentina with Chile, in particular, it becomes clear that a
substantial gap exists in Argentina between the actual and potential levels of
forest plantation production. Furthermore, much of the past growth in forest
plantations in Argentina has not been efficient.
B. Priorities for Government Action
1.5          The challenge facing the Argentine government in dealing with
forest plantations, timber processing and agroforestry is how to narrow the
gap that now exists between the actual and the potential sustainable levels of
efficient output. Defining an appropriate role for the state is critical in the
development and consideration of government options.
1.6          Commercial forestry may be defined as the planting,
harvesting, transport, processing, and marketing of trees and/or forest
products. There are two specific aspects of commercial forestry, so defined,
that justify a role for the state different from that in other commercial
activities.
1.7          Investments in forest plantations generate joint products: a
commercial product, timber, and a non-commercial product, carbon
sequestration, which is a global externality. While this is not a sufficient
reason for Argentina to support a forest plantation payment scheme using
domestic resources, it is a reason why such plantations should be considered
for support in carefully selected circumstances by any international fund
established to lower carbon levels in the atmosphere. A Carbon
Sequestration Project, which would focus on sequestering carbon in forest
plantations, native forests and scrubs, is under preparation, and the
Government has approached the Global Environment Facility (GEF) for its
support.
1.8          Native forests produce commercial products such as timber,
charcoal, and nuts, but they also produce a range of non-commercial goods
and services. Examples are: serving as sinks for carbon sequestration, a
global externality; preventing soil erosion, buffering water flows, and
protecting biodiversity and watersheds, which generate global, regional,
and/or national externalities. The production of public goods by native
forests requires that they be treated in special ways by the state and society at
large, and this requires an appropriate incentive framework of laws and
regulations. The government of Argentina decided in 1991 to assign public
sector responsibility for green environmental issues and all aspects of native
forests to a newly created Secretariat of Natural Resources and Human
Environment (SRNyAH) within the Presidency of the Republic. A separate
project (Native Forests and Protected Areas), which would be managed by
SRNyAH and which would address the above issues, is under preparation,
and the Government has approached the Bank for its support. In addition, a
complementary Biodiversity Protection Project, which would focus on



- 3 -
protecting biodiversity of global significance and importance, is also under
preparation and the Government has approached the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) for its support.
1.9          Given that the two exceptions just noted are being handled
separately, the challenge remaining for the Government is to realize the
efficient growth potential of forest plantations, timber processing industries,
and agroforestry while avoiding the negative externalities associated with the
loss of native forests to logging and conversion to other uses. This requires
that the future source of growth in the output of commercial forestry products
shifts progressively toward plantations and away from native forests. In turn,
this requires a rapid increase in both the productivity and output of
plantations, but this growth should be efficient and, therefore, quite different
from much that occurred in the past. It should be driven by improved access
to better quality information and incentives which reflect the full range of
costs and benefits, both private and public.
1.10         The most important policies for the promotion and
development of forest plantations, timber processing industries, and
agroforestry are those that affect the economy as a whole. These may be
grouped into several broad categories: (a) macroeconomic and trade policies;
(b) capital markets; (c) transportation and ports; and (d) labor markets.
Public sector policies affecting forest plantations, timber processing
industries, and agroforestry specifically are also important and may be
grouped into two broad categories, forestry sector laws and regulations, and
research, standards, and information.
Economy-Wide Policies
1.11         Macroeconomic and Trade Policies. Argentina's poor
performance in forest plantations, timber processing industries, and
agroforestry results in large part from the strategy of import substitution
adopted after World War II. This strategy, which was economy-wide and
was implemented through implicit taxation of agriculture and rural areas, and
protection of industry and urban areas, benefitted in particular the pulp and
paper industry within the forest sector. The pulp and paper industry is
capital intensive with large economies of scale, and tends to be concentrated
in a small number of large firms. This concentration facilitates lobbying
activities. In addition to the economy-wide policies which supported
industrial development in general, virtually every forest sector policy and
regulation adopted was for the benefit of the pulp and paper group. The
most important of these policies were tariffs on the import of pulp and paper
products, export taxes on logs, grants for tree planting, and regulations
requiring replanting when trees have been cut. The implicit result of the
various instruments was a tax on privately owned native forest and a subsidy
to forest plantations. The efficiency implications were: (a) an industry
incapable of facing export markets competitively; (b) the crowding-out of
non-pulp and paper industries competing for the same resource base, such as



- 4 -
mechanical wood products; (c) land use misallocations towards specific types
of plantations; and (d) environmental losses due to natural forest conversion
to plantations. Public expenditure programs were similarly biased.
1.12         Continued liberalization of the economy is necessary to create
a business climate conducive to the long-term investments required in
plantations and timber processing industries if Argentina is to start realizing
its potential in these areas. The reform program adopted by the Argentine
government since 1989 is putting these conditions in place. For example, the
level of inflation is now down to under five percent per annum, an
extraordinary achievement considering the four-digit levels common in the
1980s. One direct effect of this is to lower the risk in long-term investments
such as forest plantations.
1.13         Continued trade liberalization is necessary because forest
plantations and timber processing industries will depend on export markets
for the sale of much of their new production, and access to capital goods and
other inputs priced at world levels is essential for competitiveness.
Fortunately, the trade regime has been liberalized and made more neutral
even if some further refining is still needed, particularly from the perspective
of plantations. Remaining trade distortions are due mainly to the costs of
port regulations, which in 1992 were estimated to be still 4.9 percent of
border prices.
1.14         Capital Markets. Long-term investments such as those in
forest plantations are critically dependent on the development and efficient
functioning of Argentine capital markets. At least in the medium to long
term, forest plantations must look to the capital markets for the solution to
their financing needs. Therefore, any action the government takes to foster
the development of efficient capital markets (including the lowering of
inflation expectations, which, in turn, will lead to lower real interest rates)
will directly benefit the forestry sector, particularly the processing stages in
the short term, but ultimately the earlier plantation phase as well.
1.15         Equity financing is being welcomed by the government, and
there is today considerable interest from foreign firms, particularly Chilean,
in investing in the Argentine forest sector.
1.16         Transport and Port Sectors. High transport costs have also
been among the critical factors hampering the development of forest
plantations and timber processing industries; forest products have low value
to volume or weight ratios, making transport costs a large share of total
production and marketing costs (transport costs can amount to 50 percent of
the FOB cost of unprocessed timber products). Furthermore, before the
recent reforms, the average cost of handling wood in an Argentinean port
was about three times the average international figure. Continuing and
further deepening the reform process throughout the transport and port
sectors are vital to forest plantation and timber processing development.



- 5 -
Great progress has been made to date in deregulating transport and ports and
in transferring activities to the private sector. The critical reform remaining
is the further deregulation of road transport at the provincial level.
1.17         Labor Laws. Labor market imperfections have been very
damaging, particularly for forest processing, but less so at the primary
production level, at least directly. The critical issues in labor markets are the
following: (a) workmen's compensation; (b) collective bargaining; (c) nature
of labor contracts; and (d) labor taxes and contributions. Reform of labor
laws and regulations has lagged reforms in other areas and must be further
deepened if development of the forest sector is not to be stymied. The
agenda of deregulation in place contains several projected reforms that are
very relevant to commercial forestry, particularly the reform of workmen's
compensation.
Sector SpeciFic Policies
1.18         Laws and Regulations. Apart from maintaining and deepening
the economy-wide policy reforms, the priority for forest plantations and
timber processing industries is a review and reform of the legal and
regulatory framework, both at the federal and provincial levels. Many
regulations impose costs on forest plantations and timber processing operators
yet achieve little in the way of public goals; they may even be perverse as,
for example, when they create incentives to destroy native forests. These
regulations should be identified, subjected to close scrutiny and, when they
cannot be justified, changed. Identifying these will require a substantial
amount of effort since nearly all forests (apart from national parks) are under
provincial jurisdiction. The federal government will have to use persuasion
and incentives to bring about the desired changes.
1.19         Research and Information Generation and Dissemination.
Forest entrepreneurs and experts are unanimous in pointing to the absence of
a forestry culture as a serious problem affecting forest plantations and timber
processing. From an economic point of view, this argument reflects the high
cost of information. Primary production in Argentina was directed almost
exclusively at cereals and livestock, while other sectors were crowded out in
terms of availability of information and statistics from public and private
sources regarding the stock of plantation forests, grading standards, product
development, and market opportunities.
1.20         A government investment role in the following areas related to
forest plantations, timber processing industries, and agroforestry is justified
by the public good content of these services:
(a)   inventory of forest plantations. and development and
management of a commercial forestry database: completing an
inventory of forest plantations, but only to the degree of detail
required for purposes of public policy; inputting the data



- 6 -
generated and other statistics (e.g., prices and production
statistics) into a database; analyzing and disseminating
information from the database to the Argentine public and
private sectors and to potential foreign investors;
(b)   forest plantation and timber processing research and
information generation and dissemination:
(i)  marketing study: while there are export marketing
associations in Argentina for mechanical-wood
products, small and medium-size producers with no
direct links to foreign markets have little knowledge of
export market conditions and requirements (i.e., size
and quality classes). Furthermore, due to the
dispersion and small scale of the mechanical-wood-
products' industry, it is unlikely that such associations
will be able to substantially change the situation in the
near future due to the high transaction costs involved.
There is, therefore, a role for the government in
helping mechanical-wood processing industries perform
a range of activities, which private marketing
associations may sometimes perform successfully, such
as adopting wood grading systems, completing market
analyses, and transport feasibility studies to help the
industry focus its investments and take advantage of
appropriate niches in foreign markets. Another
argument favoring a governmental role in grading is
that even when marketing associations exist, grading
systems they may operate are of limited effectiveness
since they often lack consumer confidence. The pulp
and paper industries do not need such assistance;
(ii)  improving yenetic material and seedling quality: in
forest plantations, improving the genetic quality of
seedlings has elements of a public good due to a market
failure: the inability to distinguish improved genotypes
from poor genotypes in the visible characteristics of a
plant until late in its lifecycle, which could be 20 years.
Therefore, in principle, a direct government role in the
improvement and certification of genetic quality, and
the certification of improved quality seedlings, is
appropriate; and
(iii)  plantation management: a government role in
researching and disseminating technical information on
improved plantation management techniques is justified
because of a market failure: the inability of private
parties to capture a sufficient share of the benefits to



- 7 -
justify the expenditures, and the high transactions costs
should producer associations attempt to manage and
finance such an activity.
1.21         The cold, arid Patagonia region occupies most of the southern
part of Argentina. The region, which covers a total of 762,000 km2 (27
percent of the country's area), consists of three natural zones: (i) the Steppe,
or arid grassland, which is the largest (650,000 km2) and most arid (750 to
less than 300 mm precipitation/year); (ii) the Pre-Cordillera, which covers a
narrow band of steeply sloping land of altitudes of around 1,000-2,000
meters above sea level (MASL), and with annual precipitation of around 750
to 2,000 mm; and (iii) the Cordillera, in the high Andes, with elevations
above 2,000 MASL and annual precipitation of 1,000 to 3,000 mm. Strong
winds are a characteristic of the entire region. While much of the Cordillera
and Pre-Cordillera is well protected in the National Park's system, there are
severe desertification problems in the Steppe zone. There is a lack of
consensus concerning the underlying forces which are driving this
phenomenon and the definition of an appropriate state role in responding to
it. A comprehensive study of desertification in Patagonia is included in this
project because: (a) of the interest shown by the government, specifically the
Ministry of Economy; (b) the expectation that forestry will contribute to
slowing the rate of desertification in that region; and (c) the past involvement
and experience of the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INTA),
which is part of SAGyP, in efforts to address the problem.
1.22         Outside the Pampa, small farmers comprise more than 40
percent of properties. Regionally, the highest concentration of small farmers
is found in the Northeast and the Northwest where they are responsible for
40 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of the cropped area. According to
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) (1993), these
two regions contain 53 percent (i.e., 245,000 homes) of the rural poor in
Argentina. The government is keen to use every efficient means and
opportunity available to help alleviate rural poverty. Agroforestry offers an
effective way, in certain circumstances, to help alleviate rural poverty and,
for that reason, a small farmer component is included in the proposed
project.
C. Major Public Sector Institutions Involved
1.23         The role of the state in plantations, timber processing and
agroforestry in Argentina includes: (a) adapting existing legislation and
regulations to new requirements; (b) generating and disseminating appropriate
information and data; (c) generating appropriate technology and making it
available to the private sector directly or through extension activities; and (d)
fostering forest-related training at all levels, including universities.
1.24         To perform this role adequately, substantial improvement is
needed in institutional capacity. Until it was dismantled in late 1991, the



- 8 -
Argentine National Forestry Institute (IFONA), an autonomous institute
under the institutional umbrella of SAGyP. was responsible for overall
management of the forest sector2. IFONA's functions were divided between
the SAGyP's Directorate for Forestry Production (DPF), which was given
responsibility for forest plantations, timber processing industries and
agroforestry, and the newly-created SRNyAH, which was given responsibility
for native forests, protected areas, and green environmental issues. SAGyP
is responsible for two semi-autonomous agencies: (a) the National Seed
Institute (INASE); and (b) INTA, which has responsibility, inter alia, for
forestry research and extension. The proposed project would be implemented
by SAGyP and would be limited to plantations, timber processing and
agroforestry.
1.25         The 23 Argentinean provinces have different structures of
government and administration. In the forest sector, however, while the
names of the administrative units differ, the general institutional design is
relatively simple. The focal point is a provincial Forestry Directorate
(Direccion de Bosques) with responsibility for coordinating the forestry-
related activities of all entities, including national, for both native and planted
forests.
D. Previous Bank Lending
1.26         This is the Bank's first free-standing forestry project in
Argentina; earlier, as part of the Agricultural Services and Institutional
Development Project, the Bank supported a small sub-component for forestry
research (US$1.9 million).
E. Lessons from General Bank Experience
1.27         The Bank has lent over US$2 billion for forestry components
and free-standing forestry projects. The Forestry Policy Paper of 1978 re-
directed Bank financing from an almost exclusive focus on industrial forestry,
to a new generation of social, rural development, and environmental forestry
projects. Sector work was stressed as the critical link between the policy
statement and the lending program. Only one Implementation Completion
Report (ICR), and no Project Audit Report (PAR), exists for a forestry
project in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region. Lessons learned and
other conclusions are derived from Bank studies of sectoral experience. A
1991 OED study of the Bank's forestry experience concludes that the overall
performance of this new generation of projects has been satisfactory'.
However, consolidation may be a problem given the long maturation period
of such projects, especially of their institutional development objectives. The
main issues are national, relating to macroeconomic incentives and how these
2.    Decree 2284 of October 31, 1991.
3.    Forestry Development: A Review of Bank Experience, OED Report No. 9524. April 22, 1991.



affect land use patterns, while sectoral issues are financial, institutional and
organizational.
1.28         OED analysis concludes that the development frontier for the
forest sector in the 1990s is institutional and human resource-based, as well
as research and information systems for forest and other natural resources.
Macroeconomic policies and the incentive structure, including the legal and
regulatory context, are vital. Government has a key role to play in
encouraging the development and use of improved technology in plantation
forests. Finally, forestry can have a major impact on alleviating rural
poverty in selected locations while also helping to protect native forests.
These lessons are also generally corroborated by the 1991 Board paper on
Forestry and the 1994 Board paper on forestry project implementation.
1.29         The proposed project represents an appropriate set of public
sector interventions aimed at boosting the productivity of plantation forests
and timber processing industries while being sensitive to environmental issues
in native forest and other ecologically sensitive areas. It heeds lessons from
Bank and non-Bank projects that the government has a critical role to play in
encouraging and facilitating the use of improved technology in plantation
forests, and that forestry and agroforestry can play a key role in alleviating
rural poverty in selected locations while also helping to protect native forests.
A description of lessons learned and how the project was designed to take
into account these lessons is given in Annex A.
F. Bank Strategy
1.30         The Bank's country assistance objectives and strategy for
dealing with forest plantations, timber processing and agroforestry have been
defined through intensive mission contact since the start of 1992, leading to a
Forestry Sector Review (Report No. 11833-AR, dated April 26, 1993), and
continuing into the identification, preparation and appraisal of the proposed
project. The solutions to the issues and problems that confront Argentine
forest plantations, timber processing industries and agroforestry are consistent
with the Bank's country assistance strategy and its forestry, environmental,
and sector policies. Bank support for economy-wide policies and actions
necessary, inter alia, for the realization of Argentina's commercial forestry
potential is being pursued as part of the country dialogue and economic work
program.
1.31         It is proposed that the other policies and actions deemed
appropriate be pursued under the proposed Forestry Development Project.
The Bank can be of great assistance to the government in helping it to
develop and to implement an appropriate state role in support of the
development of forest plantations, timber processing industries, and
agroforestry.



- 10 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Concept
2.1          Consistent with the recommendations of the Bank's recently-
completed Forestry Sector Review (Report No. 11833-AR, dated April 26,
1993), the Government strategies for developing forest plantations and timber
processing industries, fostering agroforestry, and dealing with the prevention
of desertification in Patagonia imply a role for the private sector emphasizing
the production and marketing of commercial goods and services. There
would be a lean role for the state limited mainly to the creation of a
supportive policy, legal and regulatory framework, the production of goods
and services with a high public good content, and support of agroforestry in
selected areas to alleviate rural poverty. Examples of public goods would be:
(a) producing public information on the stock of trees in the nation's forest
plantations; (b) producing market and price information; (c) developing
genetically-improved seed and promoting the production and use of improved
seedlings; and (d) producing and disseminating information about improved
technical packages for the establishment and management of plantations. The
proposed project, which was prepared with assistance from the Government
of Japan in the form of a grant, would help the Argentine Government
implement the public sector role outlined here.
B. Project Objectives
2.2          The objectives of the project would be to contribute to efficient
and sustainable growth of forest plantations and timber processing industries,
to alleviate rural poverty, and to develop a strategy and consensus for
addressing the desertification and soil erosion problems in Patagonia.
C. Project Description
Project Components
2.3          To achieve these objectives, the project would: (a) create a
supportive institutional, policy, legal and regulatory framework; (b) generate
and disseminate information which would enable all actors, both public and
private, to contribute to narrowing the gap between actual and potential levels
of output from forest plantations and timber processing industries; (c) target
directly with technical assistance and grants, groups of small farmers in
which the incidence of poverty is high, agroforestry can play a central role in
improving farming practices, and, as a consequence, alleviate rural poverty
and better protect important resources of nearby native forests; and (d)
complete a comprehensive study on the Patagonia Region, focussing on the
development of an appropriate role for the state to help prevent soil erosion
and destruction of natural habitat.



- 11 -
2.4          The project would have three components: (a) institutional
strengthening, including the policy, legal, and regulatory frameworks
affecting forest plantations and timber processing industries; (b) research
and information generation and dissemination; and (c) support to small
farmers in the form of technical assistance and grants in about five areas
adjoining important native forests to help them improve their farming
practices partly through the use of agroforestry.
Institutional Strengthening Component (Baseline Costs US$3.0 million)
2.5          The institutional capacity for dealing with forest plantations
and timber processing industries is weak. Based on a comparison between
existing institutional capacity and the one implied by the proposed project's
development objectives, institutional strengthening would: (a) define a clearer
role for the state in forest plantations and timber processing industries in
consultation with the private sector; and (b) implement the proposed action
program described below to eliminate, or at least mitigate, identified
institutional capacity gaps for key capacity elements such as policy-making,
legislation/regulations, inter-institutional and internal organization, personnel
management, and skills.
2.6          A systematic institutional capacity analysis was carried out and
institutional capacity gaps identified against project objectives and tasks.
These capacity gaps are addressed in an institutional strengthening component
which would: (a) analyze and strengthen the policy, legal, and regulatory
frameworks affecting plantations and timber processing industries while
ensuring consistency with Argentine environmental laws and regulations; and
(b) address identified weaknesses in the principal institutions involved in
project implementation: SAGyP's DPF, INASE, and INTA. The baseline
cost of the component would be US$3.0 million, and would include
expenditures for the acquisition of vehicles, equipment, training, studies, and
technical assistance. Further details on this component are given in Annex
B.
Research and Information Generation and Dissemination Component
(Baseline Costs US$13.2 million)
2.7          A research and information generation and dissemination
component would support the following actions and investments aimed at
generating information with a high public good content concerning
commercial forest plantations and timber processing industries: (a) a national
inventory of plantations, and establishment and operation of a related
database; (b) studies on export markets and development of a grading system
for mechanical wood products; (c) the development of a breeding program to
achieve a higher level of species domestication; (d) the production and
marketing of better seedlings; (e) plantation management research and
extension; and (f) strengthening of the information base available (particularly
to decision makers in the public sector) for improved management of the



- 12 -
Patagonia region. Further details on this component are given in the
following paragraphs and in Annex C.
2.8          Inventory of Forest Plantations and Management of a
Related Database (Baseline Costs US$3.0 million). Reliable information on
the extent, distribution and condition of forest plantations in Argentina is
lacking. Furthermore, with the dissolution of IFONA in 1991, the
monitoring of forest product output has ceased and there is now a dearth of
up-to-date statistics on production and prices in the sector. A lack of reliable
information on the growing stock, the geographical distribution of
plantations, tree planting trends, and the annual output of forest products is a
constraint to the formation of public policy for the sector. The objectives of
the sub-component would be to: (a) complete a plantation forest inventory,
and create and maintain current a database on forest plantations; (b) collect,
input, and store such other statistics in the database as are necessary for
SAGyP to meet its mandate in the commercial forestry sector; and (c)
analyze data and disseminate information from the database.
2.9          The first objective would be realized by completing a low
intensity, reconnaissance level inventory of plantations, which would collect
essential qualitative and quantitative information on the extent, distribution,
composition and age structure of forest plantations in Argentina, and
inputting the data from the inventory into a database. The second objective
would be pursued through strengthened relations between units within SAGyP
handling the collection of raw data, but also in cooperation with other
agencies, including, in particular, the Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y
Censos (INDEC), the provinces, and SRNyAH.
2.10         Phase 1 of the plantation forest inventory would have a
baseline cost of US$1.0 million. Baseline costs include: (a) the purchase of
two sets of computer-compatible tapes of satellite imagery for the areas of
Argentina containing plantations, one at the beginning of the project and the
second toward the end (US$0.46 million); (b) the preparation from an
analysis of the first set of these tapes of a basic map of plantations, which
would be used, inter alia, to provide information on the broad distribution
and extent of the principal plantation areas; and (c) the preparation from an
analysis of the second set of these tapes of a basic map of plantations, which
would form the foundation for monitoring changes in plantations.
2.11         Phase 2 of the plantation forest inventory would involve
systematic field sampling, or ground truthing, to verify the spectral
signatures of different plantation types (tree species, age and approximate
standing volumes) on satellite images. To do this, a 2.5 km x 2.5 km grid
would be used to locate sample plots, where species composition, age class
(e.g., 0-5 years, 5-10 years, over 10 years) and standing volumes (using
relascope sweeps) would be verified. This information would be sufficient to
enable remote sensing techniques to be used in calculating plantation areas by
species and volumes for the entire country.



- 13 -
2.12         Beyond the data generated by the plantation forest inventory,
SAGyP would include in its database other priority statistics on commercial
forestry. Examples of such statistics would be some of those related to
prices, and those dealing with the production of roundwood and processed
wood. SAGyP would transform all data, from whatever source, into
information that would satisfy its own needs and those of others concerned
with commercial forestry. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
SAGyP would pursue the least cost option of inputting into its database raw
statistics collected by other agencies, when available, and would collect only
the raw data required by its mandate and not already collected by some other
agency (para. 3.1 (a)).
2.13         In instances where the collection of statistics by SAGyP is
justified, it would be done through: (a) the preparation of a standard
methodology for collecting data; and (b) strengthening the capacity of the
Statistics Unit within SAGyP to handle the task. This Statistics Unit would
be renamed the Database Management Unit (DMU) because of its increased
responsibilities. Inputs at SAGyP level would consist mainly of staff training
and limited amounts of equipment (computers and telecommunications
equipment) to receive, manage and publish commercial forestry data. At the
provincial level, assistance would take the form of workshops to sharpen
awareness of the importance of collecting reliable commercial forestry data.
Phase 2 would have a baseline cost of US$2.0 million.
2.14         Markets and Grading Systems (Baseline Costs US$0.6
million). The processing of wood products is characterized by many small
firms, hence, there are large transaction costs involved in putting in place
and enforcing appropriate grading systems. Government involvement is
aimed at resolving these problems and thereby increasing the competitiveness
of Argentine wood products. This would involve three main activities: (a) a
study, which would be carried out in close cooperation with the private
sector, to identify export markets for sawnwood in which Argentine mills
have, at least, the potential to be competitive; (b) adoption of grading
systems and methods of enforcement for sawnwood appropriate to the
markets identified; and (c) completion of a training program for mill
operators and owners who express interest.
2.15         The first step would be to identify the export markets which
appear most promising for mechanical wood products. For each of the
promising markets identified (e.g., MERCOSUR, European Union, U.S.),
the prevailing grading systems would be described in detail. The studies
would also specify any other peculiarities of these markets, including sanitary
restrictions. Once the priority markets have been identified, agreed and
studied, and depending on the interest displayed by the private sector, a
training program would be offered which would include: (a) workshops for
private mill owners and operators; (b) partial cost sharing of overseas tours
to the few selected markets for carefully selected public employees and
private mill owners and operators in order to facilitate contacts with



- 14 -
importers; and (c) on-the-job training of selected public and private sector
employees who may be interested in positions as grading inspectors and
instructors for small sawmills, or employees of large mills. The courses
would be organized so that participants would be able to grade according to
the rules of the identified priority markets.
2.16         Tree Selection and Breeding (Baseline Costs US$2.6 million).
The tree selection and breeding program would initiate a long-term effort to
reach a higher level of species domestication in Argentina. The tree breeding
program would concentrate on pines and eucalypti, the two most important
genera in Argentina's planting program. While the selection and breeding
program would be inclusive of other species with good potential, experience
has shown that the best success in domestication has been in instances in
which efforts were concentrated on a single species or group of species.
2.17         The baseline cost estimate for this sub-component is US$2.6
million and would include the design and implementation of a breeding
program for conifers, particularly pines, and for broadleaf species,
particularly Eucalypti.
2.18         Seedling Improvement and Marketing Program (Baseline
Costs US$1.8 million). Given that the tree breeding and selection program is
part of a long-term strategy to improve the genetic quality of material
available to nurseries, there is still the problem of improving the production,
marketing and use of improved seedlings in Argentina. Even if excellent
quality genetic material existed domestically, it would only be a source of
somewhat superior quality seed over what is available now through
importation. Nursery owners would still need to improve their nursery
practices to improve the morphological characteristics of seedlings, and
plantation owners would still have to overcome their present inability to
distinguish between genetically and morphologically superior seedlings and
those of lesser quality. A production and marketing research effort to
address these latter problems would be the focus of this activity.
2.19         While there is no census of forest tree nurseries for
Argentina, it is estimated that there are more than 1,000 operators in the
areas covered by the existing government grant program in support of new
forest plantation development. Generally, the large nurseries (i.e., 3-7
million seedlings capacity) in Argentina are part of large-scale reforestation
operations for pulp mills or large export firms. These large nurseries, which
produce about 40 percent of the country's nursery stock to service their own
plantations, recognize and have the capacity to use advanced production
technology and imported, certified seed. The small to medium-size
nurseries, however, which supply more than 60 percent of the country's
planting material, and normally sell to smaller producers, generally use
genetically inferior seed and outmoded nursery practices, resulting in the
production and planting of seedlings of highly variable, and usually poor,
quality. With the use of good quality genetic material, along with already



- 15 -
known, tried and tested improved nursery technologies, significant
productivity gains--of the order of 20-50 percent--can be achieved. The
objective, therefore, is to improve yields and survival rates of trees in new
forest plantations by promoting the expanded use of improved genetic
material by nurseries, and the production, marketing, and sale of improved
seedlings by nurseries.
2.20         The strategy for achieving these objectives would involve three
main elements: (a) making information on improved seed sourcing and
nursery management techniques more readily available to nursery-people; (b)
certifying improved seed, seedlings produced with that improved seed, seed
producers, and nurseries; and (c) improving the market for good quality
seedlings. Regarding information, technical assistance contracts would be
awarded to two internationally recruited seed and wholesale nursery firms
(one firm would probably specialize in broadleaf species, particularly
eucalypti, the other in conifers) to carry out three main tasks: (i) helping
interested nursery-people determine the best provenances of improved seed
for the special soil and climatic conditions of each market area; (ii)
facilitating the purchase of that seed by nurseries by providing information on
sourcing; and (iii) training interested nursery operators in improved nursery
techniques, and INASE staff in procedures for handling certification.
Regarding certification, to encourage the development of a local supply of
source identified, improved seed, INASE would initiate a seed certification
program. INASE would also set up a system to certify nurseries that produce
seedlings with desirable morphological characteristics and from improved
seed. INASE would seek technical assistance from INTA or the consultants
for both the certification of locally produced seed as well as for the
certification of nurseries, and, thereby, seedlings. Concerning improvements
in the market for good quality seedling, it would be boosted by SAGyP
precluding the use of anything but certified planting material in any of its
grant-assisted plantation programs. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that for plantation owners to be eligible for participation in any
government grant-assisted plantation program, SAGyP would require them,
when establishing a new forest plantation, to use seedlings, when available,
which are certified by INASE in accordance with the methodology to be
developed under the project (para. 3.1 (b)). A receipt from a certified
nursery could be used for verification.
2.21         Plantation Management Research and Extension (Baseline
Costs US$4.2 million). Plantation management research would have baseline
costs estimated at US$2.6 million: (a) US$2.1 million for research; and (b)
US$0.5 million for related training. This research would be part of an INTA
supported long-term program of applied field research involving trials on tree
spacing (especially for silvopastoral purposed as well as for optimum
production of timber), pruning, thinning, and plantation establishment
(including fertilization, land preparation, and weed control). Such research
would complement work already underway in Argentina and is justified as
part of a broader effort to narrow the gap between the level of technical



- 16 -
knowledge on such matters in Argentina and its competitors such as New
Zealand, with which Argentina must compete in world markets. A major
effort would be made to strengthen INTA's capacity to carry out applied
plantation management research. Toward this end, two categories of training
would be included: (a) extended training stays in New Zealand, Australia and
the United States; and (b) graduate work, leading toward degree programs in
overseas universities with excellent quality forestry programs.
2.22         Plantation management extension services would have baseline
costs estimated at US$1.6 million. In order to disseminate the research
findings to the more generalist extension agents and plantation owners and
operators, INTA would help select, train and direct a small core of about 10
subject matter specialists to perform these functions. These subject matter
specialists would also receive from INTA: (a) training to increase their
awareness and sensitivity to the environmental issues raised by forest
plantations; (b) education concerning Argentine environmental laws and
regulations pertaining to forest plantation establishment and management; and
(c) training concerning best environmental practices related to plantation
establishment and management. INTA would prepare, and disseminate partly
through these subject matter specialists, guidelines on plantation
establishment and management, including appropriate material on best
environmental practices. Baseline costs would include salaries, subsistence,
vehicles, and funding to upgrade the level of training of this core group of 10
subject matter specialists.
2.23         Patagonia Sub-component (Baseline Costs US$1.0 million).
The cold, arid Patagonia region occupies most of the southern part of the
country. The region, which covers a total of 762,000 km2 (27 percent of the
country), consists of three natural zones, namely: (i) the Steppe, or arid
grassland, which is the largest (650,000 km2) and most arid (750 to less than
300 mm precipitation/year); (ii) the Pre-Cordillera, which covers a narrow
band of steeply sloping land of altitudes of around 1,000-2,000 MASL, and
with annual precipitation of around 750 to 2,000 mm; and (iii) the
Cordillera, in the high Andes, with elevations above 2,000 MASL and annual
precipitation of 1,000 to 3,000 mm. Strong winds are a characteristic of the
entire region. While much of the Cordillera and Pre-Cordillera is well
protected in the National Park's system, there are severe desertification
problems in the Steppe zone.
2.24         The proximate main cause of land degradation is overgrazing,
and grazing during the wrong season, mainly with introduced ruminants.
Cattle, sheep and goats have largely replaced the indigenous animals in this
region where extensive agriculture (meat, wood, furs and hides) is the main
economic activity (US$271 million/annum), accounting for 40 percent of the
region's GDP. Pasture management is rare, even on the larger holdings,
partially because of the lack of interior and perimeter fencing on both small
and large holdings. Overgrazing leads to a general degradation of the native
grass ecosystem and a transition to a desert landscape, where unpalatable



- 17 -
shrubs and bare ground begin to dominate. Degraded pastures, dust storms
and increased flooding and other symptoms of desertification in the Patagonia
have affected the living standards of the local people. Little is known,
however, about the overall extent to which desertification has and will affect
the ecosystem and the people living in the Patagonia, the underlying forces
that drive the process, and the costs to Argentina if the process continues.
2.25         The objectives of this sub-component would be to: (a) collect,
analyze, interpret, and report on what is known about the economic, social,
biological, historic, climatic and other factors driving the desertification
process in Patagonia; (b) determine the costs to Argentina, the local
population, and biodiversity and hydrological systems if the process continues
unabated; (c) assess the options available for addressing the problem based on
research and experience in Argentina, Australia, South Africa, and the
United States; (d) estimate the expected cost-benefit ratios of implementing a
group of the best options available, both singly and collectively; (e) outline
an appropriate role for the state in responding to the phenomenon; and (f)
build a consensus among the main stakeholders (federal government,
provincial governments concerned, private sector, NGOs) on an action plan
consistent with an appropriate role for the state.
2.26         To meet this objective, the project would support a
comprehensive study of Patagonia in response to the objectives outlined
above. This study would be designed to develop a strategy and to help
policy makers reach a consensus for better managing the Patagonia. This
would require a combination of internationally and locally recruited expertise
and experience. A workshop to discuss the findings of the study and to
begin the process of consensus building would also be included.
Small Farmer Component (Baseline Costs US$7.2 million)
2.27         The small farmer component would have twin objectives, the
alleviation of rural poverty and the protection of native forest areas. To
achieve these objectives, the project would address the two main limiting
factors faced by poor small farmers: the availability of technical assistance
and information on improved, sustainable technologies, and access to funds
required to implement the technical packages. The strategy would be to
expand successful small farmer oriented programs that are demand-driven
and respond to some of the needs of small farmers.
2.28         The component would: (a) provide direct support in the fonn
of technical assistance and grants to poor farm families in about five selected
areas adjoining important native forests to help them improve their farming
practices partly through the use of agroforestry and, as a consequence,
alleviate their poverty and contribute to relieving the pressure on these native
forests; (b) develop improved technologies adapted to small farming systems;
and (c) increase small farmers' and their families' sensitivity toward



- 18 -
environmental values, environmental degradation, and the need to conserve
native forests.
2.29         Criteria developed by SAGyP for prioritizing broad ecological
zones for inclusion include: (a) anthropic pressure on natural forests,
especially those in or near national and provincial protected areas; (b)
availability of improved technologies; (c) forestry potential; (d)
diversification potential; (e) proportion of provincial small farmers, shifting
cultivators and livestock producers to national total; and (f) level of small
farmers' income. Five priority areas have been selected: (i) Sierra Central in
the Province of Misiones; (ii) Yungas/Transici6n Parque Chaqueno in the
Province of Salta; (iii) Chaco Humedo in the Province of Chaco; (iv)
Departamento Minas in the Province of Neuquen; and (v) Chaco Seco in the
Province of Salta. The target population has been estimated at some 3,000
small farm families. During negotiations, agreement was reached that, under
the Small Farmer Component, the target population would be limited to those
farm families having: (a) legal title to the land they farm; (b) a family
income of less than two minimum rural salaries; (b) total assets (excluding
land) of less than Arg$20,000; and (c) potential and motivation, in the
opinion of the collaborating institution, to increase farm income while also
contributing to protecting adjoining native forests (para. 3.1 (c)).
2.30         The main project activities would include (a) applied adaptive
research; (b) extension/technology transfer; (c) public environmental/forestry
education campaigns; (d) operation of an agroforestry fund; and (e)
management of the activities listed under (b), (c) and (d). Further details on
this component are given below and in Annex D.
2.31         Applied/Adaptive Research (Baseline Costs US$0.7 million):
The sub-component would support applied research targeted at developing
conservation-oriented technologies and sustainable productive systems to be
used by small farmers in the project areas. Key research topics would
include: agrosylvopastoral systems, including understory pasture
development, introduction of new genotypes, and the development/adaptation
of techniques to improve soil fertility and moisture holding capacity in areas
where the small farmer component is being implemented. This sub-
component would provide funding for the recruitment of international and
national sustainable agriculture specialists as consultants to assist in the
adaptation and development of specific technologies, including those
successfully implemented in analogous areas of the world. This
applied/adaptive research activity would also support staff training, study
tours, publications, and some field equipment.
2.32         Extension/Technology Transfer (Baseline Costs US$3.2
million): The sub-component would build upon existing extension programs
and methodologies which have proven their potential. This would be done
by: (a) providing extension services for improved farming/management
systems; (b) promoting farmers' organizations; (c) providing technical



- 19 -
assistance for land-use planning; and (d) testing ways to diversify agricultural
production.
2.33         Environmental Education Campaigns (Baseline Costs
US$0.7 million): Forestry and environmental education campaigns, directed
towards small farners and their families, school teachers and the local
population as a whole, would be supported to raise public awareness of
environmental issues. Activities would be developed by the extensionists in
charge of the extension/technology transfer sub-component, thereby ensuring
uniformity in information delivered to the target population. Activities to be
supported would include school and community tree planting, and training of
primary school teachers.
2.34         Agroforestry Fund (Baseline Costs US$2.3 million): To
overcome one of the main obstacles faced by most small farmers in adopting
new technology, namely, the lack of access to capital, the sub-component
would establish an agroforestry fund with the twin objectives of: (a)
increasing farmers' incomes; and (b) encouraging farmers to protect
environmental values.
2.35         The proposed agroforestry fund would provide grants to about
3,000 small farmers. Activities to be financed by the fund would be of two
main types: (a) those which are production-oriented; and (b) those which do
not produce direct and/or immediate benefit to the small farmers, but which
have environmental benefits. Activities to be financed would be defined by
extensionists working with participating farmers in preparing projects to be
submitted to the agroforestry fund. They could be group or individual
farmer activities. During negotiations, agreement was reached that, under
the Small Farmer Component, the cumulative amount of grants paid to any
small farm family over the life of the project would not exceed US$1,000
equivalent (para. 3.1 (d)).
2.36         Management at Local Level (Baseline Costs US$0.3 million):
The estimated fees which would be paid to local NGOs or governmental
agencies to provide extension/technology transfer services and environmental
education to beneficiaries, and monitor the use of the agroforestry fund have
been estimated at about US$328,000, equivalent to about 5 percent of the
total cost of these activities. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that prior to the commencement of activities to be financed under the Small
Farmer Component in any selected area, SAGyP would enter into a
collaboration agreement for such selected area with a well qualified and
experienced public or private institution in order to ensure the provision of
extension/technology transfer services and environmental education to
beneficiaries, and monitoring of the use of the agroforestry fund (para. 3.1
(e)).



- 20 -
D. Costs and Financing
Project Costs
2.37        Total baseline costs have been estimated at US$23.4 million.
Physical contingencies (US$0.4 million) and price contingencies (10 percent
of baseline costs plus physical contingencies) increase total project costs to
US$26.2 million, including taxes and duties which are estimated at US$1.6
million. Project costs are shown below in Table 1, with further details given
in Annex E.
Table 1. Project Costs By Component
(US$ millions)
Component                          Cost
(US$millions)
Institutional Strengthening:
(a) General Strengthening                         2.2
(b) Policy Studies                                0.8
Research and Information
Generation and Dissemination:
(a) Inventory and Database                        3.0
(b) Markets and Grading                           0.6
(c) Tree Breeding                                 2.6
(d) Seedling Improvement                          1.8
(e) Plantation Management                         4.2
(f) Patagonia Region                              1.0
Small Farmers:                                    7.2
Baseline Cost                                     23.4
Contingencies
(a) Physical                                      0.4
(b) Price                                         2.4
Total Project Cost                                26.2
Project Financing
2.38        A Bank loan of US$16.0 million equivalent would finance
about 65 percent of total project cost, exclusive of taxes and duties. Bank
financing would cover all the foreign exchange expenditures of US$8.6
million, and about 42 percent of local costs. Government would finance the
remaining US$10.2 million of total project costs. Details of counterpart
funding requirements, including a breakdown by year and by agency, are



- 21 -
given in Annex E. Table 2 shows the project financing plan by project
component. Details on allocation of the loan proceeds are shown in Annex
F.
Table 2. Project Cost Financing
(US$ millions)
Components             Bank   Government   Total
Institutional Strengthening
(a) General Strengthening        1.5    0.7            2.2
(b) Policy Studies               0.6    0.2            0.8
Research and Information
Generation and Dissemination
(a) Inventory and Database       2.3    0.7            3.0
(b) Markets and Grading          0.4    0.2            0.6
(c) Tree Breeding                1.5    1.1            2.6
(d) Seedling Improvement         1.5    0.3            1.8
(e) Plantation Management        2.6    1.6            4.2
(f) Patagonia Region             0.7    0.3            1.0
Small Farmers                     3.2    4.0           7.2
Baseline Cost                    14.3    9.1           23.4
Contingencies
(a) Physical                     0.2    0.2            0.4
(b) Price                        1.5    0.9            2.4
Total Project Cost               16.0   10.2           26.2
E. Procurement and Disbursements
Procurement
2.39        During negotiations, agreement was reached that the
procurement of goods and services financed under the project would be
undertaken in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995) and Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981), using Bank-issued standard bidding documents
(SBD) for procurement of goods under limited international bidding (LIB);
standard documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for local/international
shopping; and standard letters of invitation (LOI) and standard form of
contract for consultant services (para. 3.1 (f)).
2.40        The review and approval of bid documents and procedures,
including bid evaluations and contract award proposals, would be the



- 22 -
responsibility of the Sub-Secretary of Production and he/she would be
assisted in this endeavor by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
Although a Country Procurement Assessment Report has not yet been
completed for Argentina, this would be the fourth project in the agricultural
sector for which SAGyP would be the principal implementing agency,
including having responsibility for all procurement. In particular, the project
would benefit from technical assistance which would be provided by the
SAGyP staff responsible for the implementation of the ongoing Agricultural
Services Project (Ln. 3297-AR). In addition, a procurement consultant
familiar with Bank procedures would be retained to ensure adherence to the
Bank's guidelines and procedures. Further details on procurement are
presented in Table 3.
2.41        Works. Works under the project would be minor (total cost
about US$300,000) and consist of the rehabilitation of existing laboratory
facilities. Because of the small scale and dispersed nature of these works,
they would be financed directly by the government, and not from the loan,
using the borrower's own procurement regulations, which are satisfactory to
the Bank.
2.42        Goods. The size of the contracts involved in the procurement
of goods such as vehicles and computer equipment are such that they could
not be grouped into packages large enough to justify international competitive
bidding (ICB). Neither would national competitive bidding (NCB) be
efficient because the goods involved are either manufactured abroad or they
could not be grouped into packages large enough to justify the use of NCB
procedures. Therefore, the following procurement procedures would be
used. To the extent possible, contracts for vehicles and nursery equipment,
estimated to cost in total about US$1.8 million, would be bulked into
packages valued at not less than US$100,000, and contracts awarded on the
basis of LIB. Contracts for other equipment (e.g., computers and software,
and laboratory equipment) valued at between US$50,000 and US$100,000,
and not exceeding US$500,000 in the aggregate, would be awarded on the
basis of international shopping. Contracts for miscellaneous items of
equipment (e.g., office and audio visual/extension equipment) and supplies
valued at less than US$50,000, and not exceeding US$1.2 million in the
aggregate, would be awarded on the basis of national shopping. Satellite
images (computer-compatible tapes), which are estimated to cost about
US$0.6 million, would be procured by direct contracting, because they are
proprietary and obtainable only from one source once a technical choice is
made between the various systems available. Contracts for the procurement
of vehicles, technical equipment, and computer hardware and software would
be awarded to agents or vendors with appropriate after-sales services,
maintenance facilities and spare parts supplies. All vehicles procured (about
47) would include a four-year service contract.



- 23 -
Table 3. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)a'
Procurement             l
Project Element                     ICB    NCB       Other   N.B.F.h_'  TOTAL
1.Civil Works
1.1 Rehabilitation of laboratories                           0.3        0.3
2.Goods
2.1 Vehicles                                       1.5Y'                1.5
(0.9)               (0.9)
2.2 Equipment                                       1.44'                1.4
(0.8)               (0.8)
2.3 Remote Images                                  0.6s'                0.6
(0.3)               (0.3)
2.4 Materials & Supplies                                     0.6        0.6
3.Consulting Services'
3.1 Studies/Research                               4.3                  4.3
(4.3)               (4.3)
3.2 Technical Assistance                           4.8                  4.8
(4.8)               (4.8)
3.3 Training                                        1.0                 1.0
(1.0)               (1.0)
3.4 Project Management                              1.1                 1.1
(1.1)               (1.1)
4.0ther Expenditures
4.1 PIU & Other Recurrent Costs                              3.2        3.2
4.2 Workshops                                      0.3                  0.3
(0.2)               (0.2)
4.3 Training programs                               1.6                 1.6
(0.9)               (0.9)
4.4 Research activities                            3.0                  3.0
(1.7)               (1.7)
4.5 Agroforestry Fund                                        2.5        2.5
Total                                       19.6      6.6        26.2
(16.0)              (16.0)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
a/ Totals include taxes and contingencies.
b/ Not Bank-financed.
c/ Procured using LIB procedures (in more than 3 packages).
d/ LIB or international or national shopping.
e/ Direct contracting.
f/ Consultant services include only fees and international travel costs.
2.43           Consulting Services. Studies and research, which would cost
about US$4.3 million in consultant fees, would include: (a) studies on: (i)
policies, laws and regulations for plantations and timber processing



- 24 -
industries; (ii) interinstitutional and internal organization of SAGyP's DPF
and INASE; (iii) personnel policies; (iv) wood product markets; and (v)
desertification in Patagonia; (b) plantation inventories; and (c) a tree selection
and breeding program. Technical assistance, which would cost about US$4.8
million in consultant fees, would include: (a) development of a commercial
forestry database; (b) development of a wood grading system; (c)
implementation of a seedling improvement and marketing program; and (d)
transfer of plantation technology to extension agents; and (e) extension and
environmental education services for promoting agroforestry and conservation
management to small farmers living close to native forest areas. Training,
which would cost about US$1.0 million in consultant fees, would include the
provision of on-the-job training as well as local short courses and seminars in
forest policy, inventory, database management, and seedling improvement.
Project management, which would cost about US$1. 1 million in consultant
fees, would include the consultant services required for the PIU to assist with
project implementation. Of the total costs of consulting fees, it is estimated
that about US$3.8 million would be awarded to internationally recruited
consultants, and the balance (about US$7.4 million) to locally recruited
consultants. In Table 3, consultant expenses other than fees and international
travel costs (e.g., domestic travel and subsistence) are included under the
"Other Expenditures" heading.
2.44         Farmers under the Small Farmer Component would procure
the necessary agricultural inputs and contractors' services through normal
commercial channels using vouchers. Individual purchases would be small,
dispersed both spatially and temporally, and would be made in local markets
where competition is keen.
2.45         Bank Review. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that, regarding procurement, the process of Bank review outlined here would
be followed (para. 3.1 (g)). All procedures, documents, Terms-of-Reference
(TOR), bid evaluations, and contract awards would be subject to prior review
by the Bank for: (a) procurement of goods under LIB; (b) direct contracting
of the purchase of satellite images; and (c) for procurement of consulting
services costing US$50,000 equivalent or more for firms and US$30,000
equivalent or more for individuals. The review thresholds proposed above
provide for prior review by the Bank of approximately 55 percent of the total
value of Bank-financed contracts. The Bank would review on an ex-post
sample basis all other contracts awarded under shopping procedures; the
sample size would aim to ensure that at least one contract in twenty would be
examined. For consulting services costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
for firms and less than US$30,000 equivalent for individuals, contracts would
be signed based on a model contract and terms of reference previously agreed
with the Bank. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the draft
Terms-of-Reference (TORs) for consultants, as well as a standard letter of
invitation and form of contract, would be included in the draft Project
Implementation Manual which was agreed at negotiations (para. 3.1 (h)).



- 25 -
Disbursements
2.46        Loan proceeds would be disbursed over eight years, in line
with the standard disbursement profile for Bank-supported projects in
Argentina. The allocation of the proposed loan and the disbursement
percentages are presented in Annex F. A Special Account for Bank
disbursements would be established in a commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank with an authorized allocation of US$650,000. The initial deposit in the
Special Account would be US$300,000; the full authorized allocation would
be deposited once the amount of Bank disbursements reaches US$3.0 million.
Bank disbursements to replenish the Special Account would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) against contracts which would not
require the Bank's prior review. All other expenditures would be fully
documented. The relevant documentation in support of SOEs would be
retained by SAGyP, and would be made available to the appropriate auditors
and Bank review missions. The estimated schedule of Bank loan
disbursements is shown in Annex G.
F. Organization and Implementation
Project Management
2.47        Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest
with SAGyP, and authority to make most decisions affecting the project
would be delegated to the Sub-Secretary of Production. The Sub-Secretary
would make maximum use of existing SAGyP capacity for project
implementation but, in addition, would receive administrative and technical
assistance from a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which would be
established under the project.
2.48        The PIU would include:
(a)   A Project Coordinator, who would be recruited locally for
the coordination of implementation for the duration of the
project. He/she would be responsible for, inter alia: (i)
putting in place, and maintaining, a system for monitoring
project implementation; (ii) coordinating the preparation of
annual work programs ("POAs"), bi-annual progress reports to
the Bank, production of audit reports; (iii) supervising the
administration of the Special Account; (iv) preparing, in
cooperation with the Technical Manager and the relevant line
agencies, all documents for the Mid-Term Review and
ensuring their quality; and (v) completing, in cooperation with
the Technical Manager and the relevant line agencies, an
evaluation of the project at the end of its life. He/she would
ultimately be the link between Bank supervision staff and
SAGyP;



- 26 -
(b)   A Technical Manager, who would be recruited locally for the
duration of the project, and would be responsible for ensuring
the technical quality of all work under the project, and, in
cooperation with the Project Coordinator, for preparing the
required documentation for the Mid-Term Review, and for
preparing the project evaluation report at the end of the
project's life;
(c)   A Procurement Specialist, who would be recruited for a total
of about 20 months, and would be responsible for ensuring that
procurement procedures follow Bank guidelines and for
making recommendations on award of contracts; and
(d)   An Accountant, who would be recruited locally for the
duration of the project, and would be responsible for financial
record keeping, the Special Account, and disbursement
requests.
2.49        The establishment of the PIU and the appointment of the
Project Coordinator, the Technical Manager, the Procurement Specialist, and
the Accountant would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(para. 3.2 (a)).
2.50        The Directors of DPF and INASE would work closely with the
Sub-Secretary of Production in implementing the Institutional Strengthening
Component in their respective areas of responsibility.
2.51        In implementing the Research and Information Generation and
Dissemination Component, the Sub-Secretary of Production would: (a)
directly manage the study of the Patagonia region working in close
cooperation with other interested parties in the federal government, provincial
governments concerned, the private sector, and NGOs; (b) implement, with
the assistance of INTA, two sub-components, namely, tree selection and
breeding, and plantation management research and extension; and (c) delegate
to DPF authority: (i) to complete the national inventory of forest plantations
and to manage the related database; (ii) to manage the study on export
markets and the adoption of grading systems for mechanical wood products;
and (iii) to manage, with the assistance of INASE (which would be
responsible for certification), the program for promoting the production and
marketing of improved seedlings.
2.52        Under the Research and Information Generation and
Dissemination Component, the Sub-Secretary of Production would implement
two sub-components with the assistance of INTA (tree selection and
breeding, and plantation management research and extension) by building
upon existing INTA programs and using or upgrading existing INTA
laboratory facilities. INTA is best suited to assist with the implementation of
these two sub-components because of its experience and proven capacity in



- 27 -
implementing such research programs successfully. However, the Sub-
Secretary of Production, with the assistance of INTA, would be encouraged
to carry out the proposed research program jointly with private sector
research organizations or universities. INTA would also recruit as
consultants, manage, and train at its research facilities or other suitable
locations the small core of subject matter specialists required for extension in
plantation management.
2.53        Under the Research and Information Generation and
Dissemination Component, DPF would implement the three sub-components
assigned to it (the national inventory of forest plantations and management of
the related database, the study on export markets and adoption of grading
systems for mechanical wood products, and the program for promoting the
production and marketing of improved seedlings) by recruiting consultant
firms or individual consultants to complete the tasks. More particularly, the
seedling improvement and marketing sub-component would be implemented
with the assistance of two internationally recruited consultant firms and
INASE, which would have responsibility for certification. Selection criteria
for the two consultant firms would be based on the reputation of the firms in
managing state-of-the-art nursery operations, and the quality of their
proposals.
2.54        In implementing the Small Farmer Component, the Sub-
Secretary would use: (a) the assistance of INTA to carry out applied research
on small farmer issues; and (b) the institution with the best proven record in
each of the approximately five selected areas to manage the agroforestry
fund, to provide technical assistance and other support to poor farmers, and
to carry out the environmental education campaigns.
2.55          During negotiations, agreement was reached on a draft
collaboration agreement, which would be signed by SAGyP and a public or
private institution, dealing with the provision of agreed services under the
extension/technology transfer, agroforestry fund, and environmental
education sub-components of the Small Farmer Component in each selected
area (para. 3.1 (i)).
2.56        SAGyP would use the assistance of INTA in the
implementation of the applied/adaptive research sub-component of the Small
Farmer Component, and the following two sub-components of the Research
and Information Generation and Dissemination Component: (i) tree selection
and breeding; and (ii) plantation management research and extension. In
order to ensure that this relationship is cooperative and productive, a
contractual agreement would be entered into between SAGyP and INTA.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on a draft of this agreement
(para. 3.1 (j)). During negotiations, agreement was also reached that the
contractual agreement between SAGyP and INTA would include the
provision that SAGyP, with the assistance of INTA, would carry out the
proposed plantation management research program of the Research and



- 28 -
Information Generation and Dissemination Component, and the
applied/adaptive research sub-component of the Small Farmer Component,
jointly with private sector research organizations or universities (para. 3.1
(k)). The entry into effect of the contractual agreement between SAGyP and
INTA would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 3.2
(b)).
Monitoring. Supervision and Evaluation
2.57        During negotiations, agreement was reached on the Schedule
of Monitoring Indicators (Annex H) and the Supervision Plan (Annex I),
which includes a Mid-Term Review (para. 3.1 (1)).
2.58        The responsibility for project monitoring, which is a task
inseparable from effective project management, would rest with the Sub-
Secretary of Production and he/she would be assisted in completing this task
by the Project Coordinator. Project evaluation would also be the
responsibility of the Sub-Secretary of Production and he/she would be
assisted in completing this task by both the Project Coordinator and the
Technical Manager. During negotiations, agreement was reached that these
responsibilities would be detailed in the Project Implementation Manual
which was agreed at negotiations (para. 3.1 (h)).
2.59        Reporting requirements would be designed to assist with the
submission to the Bank by the Sub-Secretary of Production of annual and
semi-annual progress reports, the Mid-Term Review, and the ex-post
evaluation of the project, namely, the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR). Project performance indicators and measures of project impact
(Annex H) would guide possible mid-course adjustments.
Accounts. Audit and Reporting
2.60        Under the overall direction of the Sub-Secretary of Production,
the PIU would maintain separate project accounts and records for each
project component and sub-component and prepare SOEs. Supporting
documents provided by the various entities concerned would be maintained
by the PIU and made available to visiting Bank missions and independent
auditors, who on their judgement would make field visits to other entities
concerned for the purpose of the overall audit. A standard chart of accounts
would be prepared for the project.
2.61        Project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs,
would be audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles.
The audit terms of reference would be included in the draft Project
Implementation Manual which was agreed during negotiations (para. 3.1 (h)),
and would, inter alia, ask the auditors to: (i) certify that procurement had
been carried out using bidding documents agreed with the Bank; (ii) certify
that procurement documents presented to the Bank for prior review were



- 29 -
representative; and (iii) carry out a physical audit of procurement actions
taken under the project. It was also agreed during negotiations that the
Borrower would hire independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that
certified copies of their audits would be submitted to the Bank no later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.1 (m)).
2.62        It was agreed during negotiations that SAGyP would present to
the Bank for review and comment, no later than June 30 each year, its
proposed Annual Operating Plan (POA) for the project for the following
calendar year (para. 3.1 (n)). During negotiations, agreement was reached
that at the end of each year SAGyP would produce a Progress Report for the
project, and in the middle of each year an Interim Progress Report, for
submission to the Bank; these would be provided to the Bank no later than
January 31 and July 31, respectively (para. 3.1 (o)). The Progress Reports
would provide the basic information and data for supervision missions and
the Mid-Term Review. It was also agreed at negotiations that a mid-term
review would be carried out by November 1998, focussing in particular on
progress being made in reaching a consensus on reforming the policy, legal,
and regulatory framework affecting plantations and timber processing
industries, and in implementing the Small Farmer Component and the
Patagonia sub-component (para. 3.1 (p)).
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.63        The proposed project is fully consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was discussed by the Board on May 4,
1995. The CAS highlights three broad objectives: (a) consolidating structural
reform; (b) poverty reduction and strengthening social services; and (c)
rebuilding infrastructure. The proposed project would be the Bank's first
forestry project in Argentina. It would provide a vehicle for the Bank to
pursue CAS objective (a) by enhancing the competitiveness of forest-
plantation based industries through policy, legal and regulatory reform, and
by strengthening public sector institutions and applied research and extension
systems; objective (b) by improving the incomes of small farmers through the
use of agroforestry in selected rural areas where the incidence of poverty is
high; and objective (c) by promoting soil conservation through a study to
identify the causes of, and to develop remedies for, desertification in the
Patagonia region.
H. Program Objective Categories
2.64        The program objective categories affected by the project would
be private sector development, poverty reduction and human resource
development, and environmentally sustainable development. The emphasis
would be on private sector development and poverty alleviation.



- 30 -
I. Benefits. Risks and Environmental Impact
Benefits
2.65         The project would contribute to efficient and sustainable
growth in forest plantations and timber processing industries by reorienting
the role of government toward its core functions in providing appropriate
public sector support. The rural economy would be strengthened by the
improved allocation of rural resources and by the increased competitiveness
of forest plantations and timber processing industries. About 3,000 poor
rural families would benefit directly from efforts to alleviate poverty while at
the same time protecting native forests. As a result of studies to be
completed under the project, the state would be better positioned to play an
appropriate role in addressing problems stemming from the destruction of the
Patagonia region's natural resources and habitats.
2.66         Project sustainability would be enhanced through the
strengthening of the implementing agencies, particularly DPF, INASE, and
INTA, and the reform of the incentive structure that affects forest
plantations, timber processing industries, and desertification and soil erosion
in Patagonia. Research-generated information would make possible more
efficient plantations which, in turn, would help to make project activities
more sustainable.
Risks
2.67         The major risk is that the key institution charged with
executing the project, namely SAGyP, would not be up to the task. This risk
stems mainly from the changed demands the project would place on SAGyP's
DPF and INASE. The source of these new demands is the changed role of
the state in forest plantations and timber processing industries which
underlies and has guided project design. In response to this concern, great
emphasis would be placed on institutional strengthening as part of the
project. The incremental recurrent cost after project completion would be
modest at about US$1.1 million per annum (further details are given in
Annex E). There is also a risk that a complementary project which is under
preparation with SRNyAH, dealing with native forests and protected areas,
may not proceed as scheduled. Should this occur, the benefits from the
Forestry Development Project would be unaffected, but the issues confronting
native forests, protected areas, and related green environmental issues would
receive inadequate attention. However, this outcome is unlikely since
preparation of the complementary project with SRNyAH is proceeding on
schedule.



- 31 -
Environmental Impact
2.68        The proposed project would have no adverse environmental
impact; the small farmer component is specifically designed to have a
positive impact on the environment. The project has an Environmental
Assessment category B because of the need to ensure that reform of the
policy, legal and regulatory framework affecting forest plantations and timber
processing industries would avoid negative consequences for the
environment.
III. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED. AND
RECOMMENDATION
3.1         The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)   SAGyP would pursue the least cost option of inputting into its
database raw statistics collected by other agencies, when
available, and would collect only the raw data required by its
mandate and not already collected by some other agency (para.
2.12);
(b)   for plantation owners to be eligible for participation in any
government grant-assisted plantation program, SAGyP would
require them, when establishing a new forest plantation, to use
seedlings, when available, which are certified by INASE in
accordance with the methodology to be developed under the
project (para. 2.20);
(c)   under the Small Farmer Component, the target population
would be limited to those farm families having: (a) legal title
to the land they farm; (b) family incomes of less than two
minimum rural salaries; (b) total assets (excluding land) of less
than Arg$20,000; and (c) potential and motivation, in the
opinion of the collaborating institution, to increase farm
income while also contributing to protecting adjoining native
forests (para. 2.29);
(d)   under the Small Farmer Component, the cumulative amount of
grants paid to any small farm family over the life of the
project would not exceed US$1,000 equivalent (para. 2.35);
(e)   prior to the commencement of activities to be financed under
the Small Farmer Component in any selected area, SAGyP
would enter into a collaboration agreement for such selected
area with a well qualified and experienced public or private
institution in order to ensure the provision of
extension/technology transfer services and environmental



- 32 -
education to beneficiaries, and monitoring of the use of the
agroforestry fund (para. 2.36);
(f)   the procurement of goods and services financed under the
project would be undertaken in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995) and Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981), using Bank-issued standard bidding
documents (SBD) for procurement of goods under Limited
International Bidding (LIB); standard documents, satisfactory
to the Bank, for local/international shopping; and standard
letters of invitation (LOI) and standard form of contract for
consultant services (para. 2.39);
(g)   regarding procurement, the process of Bank review outlined in
para. 2.45 would be followed;
(h)   the draft terms of reference for consultants, a standard letter of
invitation and form of contract, and the allocation of
responsibility for project monitoring and evaluation would be
included in the draft Project Implementation Manual which was
agreed at negotiations (paras. 2.45, 2.58, and 2.61);
(i)   on a draft collaboration agreement, which would be signed by
SAGyP and a public or private institution, dealing with the
provision of agreed services under the extension/technology
transfer, agroforestry fund, and environmental education sub-
components of the Small Farmer Component in each selected
area (para. 2.55);
(j)   on a draft of the contractual agreement between SAGyP and
INTA (para. 2.56);
(k)   the contractual agreement between SAGyP and INTA would
include the provision that SAGyP, with the assistance of
INTA, would carry out the proposed plantation management
research program of the Research and Information Generation
and Dissemination Component, and the applied/adaptive
research sub-component of the Small Farmer Component,
jointly with private sector research organizations or universities
(para. 2.56);
(1)   on the Schedule of Monitoring Indicators (Annex H) and the
Supervision Plan (Annex I), which includes a Mid-Term
Review (para. 2.57);
(m)  the Borrower would hire independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and certified copies of their audits would be submitted



- 33 -
to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (para. 2.61);
(n)   SAGyP would present to the Bank for review and comment, no
later than June 30 each year, its proposed Annual Operating
Plan (POA) for the project for the following calendar year
(para. 2.62);
(o)   at the end of each fiscal year, SAGyP would produce a
Progress Report for the project, and in the middle of each year
an Interim Progress Report, for submission to the Bank; these
would be provided to the Bank no later than January 31 and
July 31, respectively (para. 2.62);
(p)   a mid-term review would be carried out by November 1998,
focussing in particular on progress being made in reaching a
consensus on reforming the policy, legal, and regulatory
framework affecting plantations and timber processing
industries, and in implementing the Small Farmer Component
and the Patagonia sub-component (para. 2.62).
3.2          The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed loan:
(a)   the establishment of the PIU and the appointment of the
Project Coordinator, the Technical Manager, the Procurement
Specialist, and the Accountant (para. 2.49); and
(b)   the entry into effect of a contractual agreement between
SAGyP and INTA (para. 2.56).
Recommendation
3.3         Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$16.0 million equivalent,
repayable in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, with loan amortization
based on level repayments of principal, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.



- 34 -                         Annex A
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lessons Learned from Previous Related Bank Lending
1.           The Bank has lent over US$2 billion for forestry components
and free-standing forestry projects. The Forestry Policy Paper of 1978' re-
directed Bank financing from an almost exclusive focus on industrial forestry,
to a new generation of social and rural development, and environmental
forestry projects. Sector work was stressed as the critical link between the
policy statement and the lending program. A 1991 OED study of the Bank's
forestry experience concludes that the overall performance of this new
generation of projects has been satisfactory.2 However, consolidation may
be a problem given the long maturation period of such projects, especially of
their institutional development objectives. The main issues are national,
relating to macroeconomic incentives and how these affect land use patterns,
while sectoral issues are financial, institutional and organizational. These
projects are complex, requiring non-traditional institutional arrangements
which go beyond sectors and geo-political regions. Complexity also comes
from the involvement of groups other than traditional forest services and
commercial users, much larger numbers of beneficiaries, and greatly
expanded development objectives.
Lessons for New Forestry Projects
2.           OED analysis concludes that the frontier for forest sector
development in the 1990s is institutional and human resource-based, and also
lies in the development of research and information systems for forest and
other natural resources. Macroeconomic policies and the incentive structure,
including the legal and regulatory context, are vital, and the Bank should
help countries incorporate forestry and natural resource management concerns
into macroeconomic planning. Strong technical criteria are essential to
support government planning and sustainable development for the forest
sector. An optimal organizational framework and effective management
systems are needed for forest resources, and the sector. Government has a
key role to play in encouraging the development and use of improved
technology in plantation forests. Finally, forestry can have a major impact
on alleviating rural poverty in selected locations while also helping to protect
native forests.
1. World Bank 1978. Forestry: Sector Policy Paper. Washington D.C.
2. Forestry Development: A Review of Bank Experience, OED Report No. 9524, April 22, 1991.



- 35 -                         Annex A
3.           Strong sector work is the critical link in assisting government
to develop a forestry strategy, in the program lending approach, and in
overall forestry project quality. Project complexity and implementation
should reflect institutional limitations, and inadequate systems of land tenure
and use, both of which should be analyzed during project formulation and an
action plan developed for their improvement, where appropriate. Project
preparation should include market analysis and programs where appropriate,
effective coordinating mechanisms, and focus on the recurrent cost/total
project cost ratio, and pricing policies. Lending should be program rather
than project-based, conceived as long-term engagements which are mapped
out up-front, and have a participatory framework involving government,
communities and individuals. A thorough understanding is necessary of the
socio-economic and socio-cultural situations of beneficiary populations,
especially in forestry projects dedicated inter alia, to poverty alleviation. The
manner in which beneficiaries are approached, organized and involved in
project activities is often critical. Forestry projects need to be
technologically-sound, and incorporate growth-related and/or forest
management incentive structures. Finally, resource planning, geographic
information systems and cadastres, and monitoring and evaluation, must be
central.
4.           Recent forestry sector work shows a shift in focus, and is
generating project design innovations. It stresses: (a) the importance for
forestry of rational economic policies; (b) definition of the role of the state in
commercial and non-commercial forestry, and establishment of a favorable
climate for private involvement in expanding plantation forestry; (c) the
conservation and sustainable management of remaining natural forest areas
rather than their conversion to other uses; (d) greater attention to
comprehensive use planning, and the need to capture economic rents and halt
the mining of forest resources; and (e) the linkages including: (i) between
sectors; (ii) between forestry and the conservation of biological diversity,
wildlands and other environmental values; and (iii) to rural poverty
alleviation. The recent "Forestry Sector Review" (Report 11833-AR, dated
April 26, 1993), which has been discussed extensively with the Government
and is an important reference point for its evolving forest strategy, is in the
mainstream of this new focus and is the basis for proposed Bank actions in
the sector.
The Project
5.           The proposed project heeds relevant lessons of Bank and non-
Bank experience and studies. It is grounded in recent sector analysis whose
conclusions are broadly-agreed with the Government. Ongoing liberalization
of the Argentine economy including in the areas of macroeconomic policy,
capital markets and trade policy will provide a favorable context for its
preparation, implementation, and sustainability. Implementation would be
essentially the responsibility of one institution: Secretariat of Agriculture,
Livestock and Fisheries (SAGyP). Components would address the following:



- 36 -                         Annex A
institutional deficiencies including the policies, laws and regulations relevant
to the forest sector; research aiwd information generation concerning
commercial forest plantations and timber processing; and use of forestry to
reduce small farm poverty and protect the environment. A separate,
complementary forestry initiative, the Native Forests and Protected Areas
Project, now under preparation, will deal with green environmental issues
and be managed by SPNyAH.
6.           In LAC, the Minas Gerais Forestry Project in Brazil
(Ln. 2895-BR) is comparable in key respects, and supervision is producing
relevant lessons including that: collaboration is essential between forest
agencies and extension services in promoting reforestation programs; tree
planting can increase land values, stimulating greater small farmer interest in
reforestation and conservation activities; and, minimum land size
requirements for small farmer participation in seedling distribution and
planting programs can be counterproductive. The forest management aspects
of the project reveal the importance of: expert technical assistance for
research subprojects; data collection, especially financial; forest inventories
and database systems for law and direct enforcement efforts, and for broad
planning purposes; and, more generally, forestry agencies having clear
strategies, long-term plans and appropriate technical and administrative
capacity for reaching governments' forestry development and conservation
goals.
Bank Lendina Experience in Argentina
7.           The current lending portfolio in Argentina comprises 19 loans,
principally in the infrastructure and finance sectors, totalling US$5.4 billion.
The Bank has undertaken five operations in the agricultural sector since
1967. Periodic economic and sectoral difficulties and profound institutional
weaknesses have provided a daunting context for project planning and
execution, affecting commitment and counterpart funding, implementation
schedules, and the ability to sustain a longer-term perspective and project
benefits. An Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 1564-AR), which was
approved in 1978, was canceled in 1980 without disbursement due to sectoral
conditions unconducive to investment. The Grain Storage Project (Ln. 1521-
AR), which was also approved in 1978 and designed to assist grain exports
and strengthen the financial position of the Argentine Railways, did not, for
the most part, achieve its objectives, although it did have important
institutional benefits. The Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln. 2675-AR), which
was approved in 1986, was intended to support sectoral adjustment fostering
increased agricultural productivity and exports. The loan was fully disbursed
and in that regard had a valuable resource transfer impact in a period of
macroeconomic crisis, but it did not achieve its central policy objective, the
substitution of a land tax for agricultural export taxes. Finally, the
Agricultural Credit Project II (Ln. 2970-AR), which was approved in 1987,
was successful in re-capitalizing the sector and increasing producer



-37 -                         Annex A
confidence, but institutional and financial sector objectives were not sustained
beyond loan closing.
Project Strategy
8.           The proposed project addresses the enabling environment for
forestry management by reviewing and where appropriate drafting revisions
to existing policies, laws and regulations which impose costs on commercial
forestry, and strengthening the implementing institutions. The project
institutional development strategy would help to define the role of the state
and develop policy in consultation with the private sector. An action plan
would address policy-making, legislation and regulations, cross-institutional
and internal organization, personnel management and skills upgrading at the
federal and provincial levels. An important aim is to develop sufficient
institutional capacity to implement the other project components.
9.           OED has concluded that the nature and structure of
institutional and legal/regulatory frameworks, along with property rights, are
critical determinants of the extent, magnitude and sustainability of forestry
project impacts. This is likely to intensify into the 1990s as political and
public pressure is exerted on forestry institutions to do more in the area of
protection and management of native forests, in new agenda items such as
poverty alleviation, conservation of biodiversity, and as governments deal
with diminishing areas of native forest for timber and fuelwood.
Management and conservation of native forests is the responsibility of the
Secretariat of Natural Resources and Human Environment (SRNyAH) and is
not a part of the proposed project; they would, however, be included in a
separate project which would focus on SRNyAH and its mandated functions.
10.          The project also focuses on commercial forestry research and
information generation and dissemination stressing competitiveness and
conservation. First, an inventory would obtain qualitative and quantitative
information on the extent, distribution, composition and age structure of
plantation forests, and a database would be developed. A database would
also be established to enable SAGyP to fulfil its forestry mandate and meet
public and private sector information needs. Second, research would:
identify promising export markets for Argentine wood products, and develop
market-tailored grading systems for sawnwood; initiate a long-term effort to
improve the quality and hence, potential of commercial tree species in
Argentina, and complementary actions to improve the production, marketing
and use of this improved material in Argentina; and increase and disseminate
cost-effective technologies necessary to enhance Argentine competitiveness in
world markets. Finally, to combat severe land degradation and
desertification in Patagonia, which represents 27 percent of the country, a
study would be financed to determine the causes of desertification, the effects
of desertification on the ecosystem and population, and its socio-economic
costs. This study would support strategy development and actions to halt or
reverse the process.



- 38 -                          Annex A
11.          The importance of database development is stressed repeatedly
in the literature and lessons on forest management. Bank analysis also shows
that forest technology research is an important source of productivity growth.
Further, there is a high pay-off from investment in socio-economic policy
research aimed at increasing understanding of the underlying causes of
deforestation and land degradation, and of incentive policies that will
encourage improved conservation of forest and other natural resources.3
12.          Finally, the project strategy envisages including forestry
development among the means for alleviating rural poverty, and thereby
protecting native forests. This would be done by providing incentives to
small farmers to adopt sustainable farming systems which reduce the intense
pressure on natural forests from expanding and shifting agriculture, and over-
grazing. Small farmers would benefit from research on conservation
technologies, extension and agroforestry grants. These actions would build
on existing participatory, successful small farmer-oriented programs, be
group-based and target only those producers who legally occupy their land,
since the project seeks to avoid providing incentives for further encroachment
on natural forests. Broad ecological zones have been prioritized by SAGyP
on the basis of criteria which include environmental and commercial
potential, technology availability, numbers, income and interest of small
farmers, and political commitment.
13.          The issue of forest encroachment by small farmers has
received much attention but solutions are not easy to design. There is broad
agreement that traditional "command and control" and "custodial" regimes
for forest management have not worked and that a variety of solutions
including technical advice, extension, and agroforestry farming systems, can
improve land use and discourage encroachment by low-income farmers.
Consensus indicates that future policies and strategies should promote local
community participation and responsibility for controlling and managing
forest resources for their own long-term benefit, stabilizing marginal
agriculture and developing conservation awareness, especially among rural
youth.4
3. Forestry Management for Sustainable Development, EDI Report 0032, August 1993.
4. Ibid.



- 39 -                        Annex B
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Strengthening Component
A. Introduction
1.          Argentina started to define the role of the State in the forest
sector in comprehensive legislation embodied in Law 13273 of 1948. Under
this law, the National Forestry Administration of SAGyP, later to become the
National Forestry Institute (IFONA, Law 20531 of 1973), was created. Law
13273 of 1948, encompassed only areas under Federal responsibility
("Territorios Nacionales"). At that time, the government adopted forestry
management methods commonly used in European countries. It was in fact
an Italian firm, later to become Argentinean, that started a pulp industry in
the 1920s. Europe further developed its influence in this sector after World
War II, when refugees from many European countries, but most particularly
foresters from Croatia, helped Argentine policy makers and its private sector
to become aware of the sector's potential and the need for improving
production and processing technologies. This coincided with the
government's decision to expand its agriculture frontier and become
increasingly self sufficient. A Forestry Directorate ("Direcci6n de Bosques")
was created in most provinces by provincial governments. Under the
influence of European immigrants, the forestry sector started to develop the
necessary technology and to boost logging as well as commercial activities.
2.           Despite such a promising start, the Provincial Forestry
Directorates never had the human resources or the institutional capacity to
really enforce Law 13273 of 1948. Provinces did not have skilled
professionals to enforce federal or provincial legislation, even when it was
effectively created. Instead, private entrepreneurs were left to continue their
increasingly predatory use of the forests, and the prudence spelled out in the
law was largely ignored. In other words, the provincial capacity to manage
the forest sector was limited by their weak administrative ability to enforce
existing laws, to formulate policies, or follow a structured course of action.
These constraints contributed to the limited economic development of the
forest sector over the years. This was further aggravated by the intense
competition from crops and livestock, which have always enjoyed greater
support in Argentina.
3.           The creation of IFONA in 1973 reflected a renewed
government interest in the forest sector for both natural resource protection
and commercial development. However, as the above-listed constraints were
largely ignored, or not addressed effectively, forest resources continued to be



-40 -                         Annex B
depleted. High wastage and production costs helped to make Argentinean
timber uncompetitive in foreign markets. The increasing awareness of this
situation over the years explains why the current government wants to
reconsider its sectoral policy and give this sector a higher priority. Based on
the Government's forest sector development policy and, more specifically, on
the proposed project objectives, component by component, an institutional
capacity analysis (ICA) was carried out during project preparation, and
capacity gaps identified systematically. They are described below. Finally,
the project-supported institutional strengthening component (ISC) that
follows, includes inputs aimed at addressing all such identified capacity gaps,
helping to strengthen the Government's institutional strengthening plan and
ability to implement its strategy for this sector.
B. The Role of the State and Development Policy
4.           Both because of growing awareness of environmental threats
and of business opportunities, the Government has recently moved from a de
facto to a more conscious national forest policy. Important decisions made
over the last several years illustrate the perceived need for change in the
sector. However, the measures taken in this direction need to be
considerably strengthened to yield the expected results in policy reform.
Measures already taken include especially: (a) the creation (in 1992) of a
Secretariat of Natural Resources and Human Environment (SRNyAH),
directly reporting to the President of the Republic; and (b) the decision to
create the Directorate for Forestry Production within SAGyP (DPF),
reporting to the Secretary of SAGyP, itself belonging to the Ministry of
Economy. For forest plantations, DPF has assumed the functions of the now
extinct IFONA, an autonomous entity that had been accused of inefficiency
since its creation in 1973.
5.           The emerging policy points towards a role for the private
sector that would focus on production and marketing, and a stronger, but still
lean, role for the State limited virtually to: (a) norm-making and
enforcement, especially to protect natural resources; and (b) stimulating
expansion and productivity growth in the private sector. Private sector
stimulation would aim at increasing the area under plantations and enhancing
considerably the level of technology and productivity in forest production.
Eventually, this would result in the penetration of new markets (the European
Union in particular), and in boosting the contribution of forestry products to
Argentine exports.
6.           Derived from the above, the implicit role of the State in the
forestry sector would include: (a) adapting existing legislation and regulations
to new requirements; (b) getting organized to ensure harmony and an
adequate network of institutional relationships, both at the national and
provincial levels; (c) disseminating relevant information and data; (d)
generating relevant technology and making it available to the private sector
directly or through extension activities; (e) directly intervening in areas in



- 41 -                          Annex B
which there is insufficient interest or capacity in the private sector, but which
generate substantial positive externalities; (f) managing directly national
parks; and (g) fostering forestry-related training at all levels, including
universities.
C. Sectoral Institutional Universe
7.            Institutional Network Mapping. To achieve such objectives
and to support the above-defined role of the State, substantially enhanced
institutional capacity is required. Prior to addressing specific institutional
capacity gaps (ICGs), a review of the sectoral institutional universe is given
below as well as a description of the identified ICGs that became the basis
for the design of the institutional development strategy and action plan
included in the proposed project. The forest sector's institutional network is
complex and unstable. This network is described below in some detail.
8.            Federal Institutions. Six ministries are involved in the forestry
sector in Argentina. After the dismantling of IFONA in 1991, its functions
were redeployed and assigned to SAGyP for plantations and related
commercial and processing activities, and the rest to a newly created
Secretariat of Natural Resources and Human Environment (SRNyAH) within
the Presidency of the Republic. The Directorate for Native Forests within
SRNyAH, DRFN, has responsibility for managing all aspects of native
forests, while the National Parks Administration (APN), a semi-autonomous
entity within SRNyAH, has the responsibility for the administration of
national parks. SAGyP is also responsible for INTA, a semi-autonomous
research and extension entity that includes a forestry research unit. SAGyP
also supervises the work of another decentralized entity having some
responsibilities or an indirect role in the forestry sector: Argentina's National
Seed Institute (INASE).
9.            Other Ministries have minor but significant roles. The
Ministry of Education and Culture is responsible for universities which have
forestry training at the undergraduate and graduate levels. The Secretariat of
Science and Technology, among others, has some responsibility for forestry
research. Finally, the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce includes: (a) a
National Directorate of Industries which has jurisdiction over forestry
processing industries; and (b) a National Industrial Technology Institute,
offering extension services to timber industries.
10.          Other Forestry Entities at the National Level. In addition to
the universities that carry forestry programs at the undergraduate and
graduate levels, quite a few other entities have been created at the national
level to address specific needs. Still others may have a substantial influence
on decisions taken at the regional level, although they do not necessarily have
an identity strictly related to the forestry sector. In addition to INTA's
involvement with research and technology dissemination, there is: (a) INTI,
which is involved in the modernization of industrial processes and reports to



- 42 -                        Annex B
the Ministry of Economy; (b) CITEMA, a technical arm of INTI, which has
responsibility for testing industrial processes and supporting private industry;
(C) CICELPA, also a technical arm of INTI, which does work similar to
CITEMA but only for the pulp industry; (d) CONICET, which reports to the
Ministry of Education and Culture, and which is in charge of coordinating all
research activities and financing those which are important for development
in Argentina; (e) CONAQUE, which has responsibility for fostering the
development and protection of the Quebracho tree; and (f) CNA, which has
the same functions for the poplar tree. Institutions dealing with overall or
regional coordination are: (a) CONADEPA, which reports to the President of
the Republic on coordination of activities in the Patagonia region, where
forestry resources are an important asset; and (b) CFI, which coordinates
actions of the provincial ministers of finance, including the municipal
authorities of Buenos Aires, to ensure harmony and coherence in
development decisions affecting one or more provinces. In addition, the
legislative effort dealing with forestry is coordinated by two ad hoc Forestry
Commissions in the House of Representatives and the Senate, respectively.
11.          Provincial Institutions. The 23 Argentinean provinces have
different organizational arrangements for provincial government and
administration. In the forestry sector, however, while the name of the
administrative unit may change, the general institutional design is relatively
simple. This reflects the organizational setting in all provinces. The focal
point is a provincial Forestry Directorate (Direcci6n de Bosques), which is
generally located at the third management layer of government, with
responsibility for both native and planted forests. Each provincial Forestry
Directorate is responsible for coordinating forestry-related activities of all
other entities, including national, within its province. These generally
include INASE and INTA.
12.          The Private Sector.  Since an Italian company began the pulp
industry in Argentina in the 1920s, the private sector has organized itself into
powerful associations and guilds of all sorts. While the private sector has
undoubtedly contributed to the development of the forestry sector, it has also
been a major obstacle to the full implementation of Law 13273, because of
its perception that this law was an impediment to quick and substantial
profits. The most important private sector entities are: (a) AFOA, a
grouping of all forestry producers; (b) AFCP, which includes the most
powerful and wealthy part of the forestry-related private sector; (c) FAIMA,
which includes about 2,000 timber companies; and (d) CIEF, a private
research entity which conducts research on behalf of its associated members
that supplements that carried out by the public sector. Finally, there are
many NGOs dealing directly or indirectly with the forest sector and dedicated
mostly to raising awareness about the need for protecting natural resources.
13.          Overall Sectoral Coordination. To ensure a minimum of
harmony and coherence in the forestry-related decision-making process at the
national level, a National Forestry Commission (CNB) was created with



- 43 -                         Annex B
representatives from the national and provincial governments, and from the
private sector institutions listed above. The main role of CNB is to advise
the authorities on policy and/or investment decisions, while at the same time
ensuring that the private sector receives clear signals.
D. Institutional Capacity Analysis (ICA)
14.          To ensure the design of an institutional development strategy
and action plan that would address most pressing priorities, a thorough ICA
was carried out at the national and provincial levels, and specific ICGs were
identified from the five viewpoints reviewed, namely, rules of the game;
interinstitutional relationships; internal organization and management at the
entity level; personnel policies and reward systems; and skills of individuals
in both the public and private sectors. The analysis has been carried out in
an attempt to analyze to what extent the forest sector in Argentina will be
able to efficiently achieve the proposed project objectives. A description of
the identified ICGs follows.
Rules of the Game
15.          Within this broad category of institutional capacity, four
elements have been identified as limiting the sector's ability to develop,
namely, governance, legislation, regulations, and culture. They are analyzed
below.
16.          Governance. The first element of governance is a clearly
articulated and recognizable sectoral role of the State. Unfortunately, no
such role is written anywhere, and can only be deduced from Government's
decisions and/or informal declarations. Another important element of
governance is the transparency and amount of participation allowed in the
decision-making process; there is much room for improvement.
17.          Poor policies have been the main constraint to the efficient
growth of the forest sector in Argentina and to the protection of "green"
environmental values. Most of the constraints stemmed from the lack of a
clear policy environment outside the sector, including macroeconomic, credit,
trade, transportation and labor policies. In recent years, as part of the
macroeconomic liberalization and privatization programs of the Government,
much has been achieved in eliminating policy distortions affecting the sector.
These measures will go a long way toward fostering efficient and sustainable
growth in the sector and in removing incentives for depleting the "green"
environment.
18.          When private sector representatives are interviewed about
changes they would like to see in the role of the State, they generally have
precise ideas: (a) increased awareness on the part of the Government of the
sector's potential; (b) more public sector stimuli (direct promotion and fiscal
incentives) to expand production; (c) more openness to the private sector to



- 44 -                         Annex B
ensure its participation in the decision-making process, in particular on
matters relating to international markets; and (d) research and extension
programs more in line with private sector priorities and dictated by market
conditions.
19.          Legislation. Policy constraints to forestry growth and
environmental protection still exist, however, mainly contained in sector-
specific legislation. National forest policy in Argentina, as stated in Law
13273 of 1948, was very advanced for its time in that it struck a balance
between conservation and commercial objectives. The law was less
successful in its choice of policy instruments, because it favored "command
and control" mechanisms rather than market-based mechanisms, which would
have been more appropriate given the dominance of private forests in most of
Argentina. Important policy constraints to forest development and
environmental protection also remain at the provincial level. Provinces play
a critical role in forest policy, but in most cases they have failed to
implement the farsighted approach contained in law 13273 of 1948.
Furthermore, provincial legislation tends to exacerbate the weakness of law
13273 by relying too much on "command and control" mechanisms that, for
the most part, are misdirected and fail to achieve the underlying objectives.
For example, some of these measures attenuate property rights by reducing
private option values. This creates incentives against forests and in favor of
competing uses, and introduces disincentives for conservation and forest
development. Also, because provincial sectoral legislation varies widely
between regions, it creates inefficiencies in the location of the industry and
fosters a provincial bureaucracy that, in many cases, does little more than
collect special taxes to finance itself.
20.          Non-forest provincial policies also play an important role in
distorting sector activities. Some provinces adopted special taxation schemes
to promote value-added processing within provincial borders. Other
provinces impose a tax on shipments of timber raw materials to outside the
province, a practice that may even be unconstitutional. Transportation is still
highly regulated at the provincial level, leading to the appearance of trucking
associations that behave like oligopolies and increase the transportation costs
of timber products. Finally, provincial legislation is particularly poor in the
area of "green" environmental protection. Although most environmental
values are national or global in scope, and it would not make sense for a
province to take most initiatives in the absence of transfer payments from the
federal government or the global community, there are still important local
values, particularly for quality water supply and soil conservation, that are
poorly protected.
21.          Regulations. Furthermore, the related regulations are
inadequate. For instance, in case of fire, there is no special mechanism to
mobilize the population as provided for in the law. Also, there are no
professionals to fight forest fires. This may result in the situation being
worsened when only volunteer fire fighters, without training or guidance,



- 45 -                          Annex B
are available. Regulations are also missing to help minimize risks. The
existing fine system is obsolete and does not stimulate prudence. In the field
of regulations related to commerce and industry, there is also a need for
updating or creating new rules of the game, in particular to foster
productivity increases and exports. Finally, the regulations related to
watershed management are particularly weak.
22.           Culture. Finally, it is readily acknowledged in Argentina that
there is little or no "forestry culture" as compared with neighboring countries
such as Chile. Awareness of both the sectoral development potential and the
possibility of expanding the forestry capital stock, instead of just destroying
it, is far from being sufficient. The development of such an awareness is
seen by the private sector as an important role of the public sector. Another
example of weak institutional capacity because of prevailing cultural patterns
is given by native populations (Mapuches in particular) who used to invade
forests of araucaria and araucana to eat their nutritious fruits, thus, depleting
wide areas of valuable trees.
Interinstitutional Relationships
23.           The network of interinstitutional relationships within the
forestry sector is complex and unstable. In addition, most of the
relationships are de facto or informal rather than thought through on the
basis of the need for many entities to cooperate and interrelate to efficiently
implement their work programs. Even when specific mechanisms exist such
as CNB, it has no power whatsoever except to give advice. Experience has
shown that this advice is rarely taken. At least this is the feeling in the
private sector when CNB is mentioned.
Internal Organization and Management at the Entity Level
24.           Organization at the entity level within the forestry sector is at
least as weak as it is at the interinstitutional level. In SRNyAH, weaknesses
derive from its recent creation and the lack of overall experience as to how to
get organized to respond to the specific needs of the country in protecting the
environment and preserving natural resources. In the case of SAGyP's DPF,
it is evidently located at too low a level hierarchically to have much influence
or prestige.
25.           This picture is further aggravated by gaps related to other
elements of capacity also included in the broad category of "organization".
These gaps are less specific to the forestry sector and more common to many
public entities in Argentina. Management procedures and styles often seem
antiquated. They do not include participatory mechanisms, except in very
rare occasions. The entity-level interpretation of prevailing civil service
rules is narrow and many entities' staff "work to rule", slowing down all
processes and certainly activating only part of their skills. Only rarely are
there adequate and updated manuals at the administrative and technical levels.



- 46 -                         Annex B
Finally, as in many other sectors, entities are given responsibilities and work
programs without the corresponding physical and financial resources
(operating budgets) commensurate with the scope of their work. Facilities
are not well maintained and run. Office equipment and technology generally
do not cover the needs and tend to be obsolete as well. This situation has
often been denounced by the private sector when explaining the low
credibility level of the public sector. As a result, this element of capacity is
far from adequate. On the contrary, any sector modernization effort aimed at
achieving higher levels of performance and competitiveness in international
markets, while simultaneously renewing the forestry sector's capital stock,
both quantitatively and qualitatively, is going to be severely hampered by the
above-described situation.
Personnel Policies and Reward Systems
26.          On this subject there is not much to say that would be specific
to the forestry sector. However, this does not make the identified ICGs less
severe when trying to achieve sectoral development objectives. It is well-
documented that the civil service in Argentina needs to be reorganized in line
with other government efforts to modernize the entire administrative
machinery. Salary levels in the forestry sector are not at all competitive with
the private sector. As a result, the private sector retains the best specialists,
which is not necessarily a bad thing in itself. However, as the role of the
State in the sector becomes leaner, the need for a competent core of
specialists within sector institutions is critical. Current personnel policies do
not give any premium for the number of years specialists have spent in the
same job and/or specialty. The system is seen as broadly unfair. Many of
the existing higher- and mid-level specialists have a second job working in
private activities that have nothing to do with the forestry sector. This is
particularly serious in a sector in which a high level of competency is
necessary to implement reforms such as the ones under the proposed project,
including policy-making, definition of strategies to stimulate efficiently the
private sector, strategies to expand exports, and to enforce natural resource
legislation and regulations. There is an acute need to hire and retain higher-
level professionals, but these cannot be attracted by the present levels of
compensation.
Skills of Individuals in Both the Public and Private Sectors
27.          Finally, from the viewpoint of the last institutional capacity
category that has been reviewed while preparing the proposed project,
namely, skills of people at all levels involved in interinstitutional
relationships, wide capacity gaps exist, largely, but not exclusively, explained
by the previously-described capacity gaps. Information obtained through
informal interviews of both public sector officials and private sector
entrepreneurs show that skills are missing at all levels, including in the
private sector, to achieve the development tasks implied in the Government
priority objectives. The majority of decision-makers are new to the sector.



- 47 -                         Annex B
About 70 percent of the professionals and technicians, including those in the
private sector which is supposed to get the best professionals as a result of
better compensation packages, would need, at least, to update their skills. In
the private sector, managers do not have the management or technical skills
at the level required by an industry that wants to aggressively penetrate
highly competitive international markets. Workers in the industry are
generally unskilled, contributing to a well-known wastage of primary
products. Finally, the population in general, including the groups visiting
national parks or other protected areas, have neither a conservation culture
nor awareness of what is expected from them as a contribution to natural
resource protection. In other words, the global skill capital of the people,
including within the sectoral institutional universe, is deficient. This
probably will be a severe impediment to implementing the proposed sectoral
development strategy if it is not addressed speedily and adequately.
Conclusion
28.          The Argentine Forest Sector has a weak institutional capacity
because: (a) the sectoral role of the State and related development policy is
only vaguely defined and is not sufficiently explicit or transparent; (b) the
institutional environment is which the sector is developing is not conducive to
the achievement of the highest development potential in terms of preserving
natural resources and, at the same time, realizing the sector's full productive
potential; and (c) the capacity of the sectoral institutional universe is weak.
Based on a comparison between existing institutional capacity thus described
for the sector, and the one that is implied by the proposed project's
development objectives, an institutional strengthening strategy is
recommended that would help: (a) define a clearer role of the state and
develop policy in effective consultation with the private sector; and (b)
implement the proposed action program described below and included in the
proposed project so as to eliminate, or at least mitigate, identified
institutional capacity gaps for key capacity elements such as policy-making,
legislation/regulations, interinstitutional and internal organization, personnel
management, and skills. The proposed institutional development program
described below includes specialist assistance, training activities, and the
improvement of equipment and facilities.
E. SAGyP Institutional Strengthening Component (ISC)
Component Objectives
29.          This component aims to develop sufficient institutional capacity
in order to implement the other project components successfully. This means
that all ICGs that have been identified against project tasks, themselves
derived from components' objectives and resources, are systematically
addressed by the following program, in time to ensure adequate and efficient



- 48 -                                 Annex B
task implementation over time.' This component for SAGyP would include
technical assistance, training, vehicles and equipment for a total cost of about
US$3.0 million, as summarized in Tables B. 1 and B.2, and later in the text.
Table B. 1. SAGyP Institutional Strengthening Component (ISC)
Breakdown of Baseline Costs
Breakdown by Objective                               (US$'000)
Policies, laws, and regulations for commercial plantations,
including those affecting the production of planting material               796
Interinstitutional and internal organization                                228
Personnel policies and reward systems                                        20
Skills upgrading                                                            316
Support for project implementation                                        1,670
Total cost                                                                3,030
Again, using the language of the ICADS method, one would say that a successful ISC will have yielded a
ICI-I of 45 (compared to 34 as of today), and a ICI-2 of 210 (compared to 105 as of today), through
either eliminating identified ICGs and/or reducing overall project development ambitions to a certain
extent.



- 49 -                       Annex B
Table B.2. SAGyP Institutional Strenathening Component (ISC)
Breakdown of Baseline Costs
Input Description                   (US$'000)
Internationally recruited consultants (36 p/m): calculated at
the rate of US$10,000 per month, including all expenses,
except domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos
Aires                                                   360
Locally recruited consultants (290 p/m): calculated at the
rate of US$5,000 per month, including all expenses, except
domestic travel and subsistence when outside Buenos Aires   1,450
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires
calculated at the rate of about US$1,500 per consultant
month                                                   490
Vehicles and equipment                                  180
Workshops                                               120
Training tours                                          110
Other training-related expenses                         130
Incremental operating costs                             190
Total costs                                           3,030
Component Inputs for SAGyP
30.         The ISC's inputs are described below for DPF and INASE:
(a)   Policies, Laws and Regulations for Commercial Plantations
(US$796,000)
(i)  Study of policies, laws and regulations at the federal
level (US$141,000). Detailed study of existing federal
legislation and regulations affecting the establishment,
management, exploitation, transportation, processing,
and exporting of commercial products from plantations,
and identification of main obstacles to the efficient
functioning of the sector, including related
environmental consequences. Some of this activity was
started during project preparation. This item would
include 6 person/months (p/m) of an internationally
recruited economist, 4 p/m of a national economist, 3
p/m of a national environmentalist, and 4 p/mr of a
national lawyer;



50 -                          Annex B
(ii) Workshop for prioritizing federal obstacles
(US$20,000). Workshop for consultations with the
public and private sectors, and NGOs on the policy and
regulatory constraints at the federal level. The
objectives of the workshop would be to obtain feedback
on the results of the above study, to agree on a
hierarchy of problems, and to prioritize obstacles to be
removed. Costs include a facilitator and travel
expenses;
(iii) Drafting revised federal legislation and regulations
(US$65,000). Drafting of legal documents and
regulations, following the priorities in (a) (ii), while
ensuring consistency with Argentine environmental laws
and regulations. This would be done using about 10
p/m of local lawyers;
(iv)  Workshops with federal legislators and government
officials (US$20,000). Workshops with interested
legislators and government officials to explain the
importance, content, and implications of revised draft
legislation and regulations. These workshops would
include a facilitator and travel costs;
(v)  Study of policies, laws and regulations at the provincial
level (US$238,000). Detailed study of existing
provincial legislation and regulations affecting the
establishment, including appropriate environmental
screening of plantation activities, management,
exploitation, transportation, processing, and exporting
of commercial products from plantations, and
identification of main obstacles to the efficient
functioning of the sector, including related
environmental consequences. This item would include 6
p/m of an internationally recruited economist, 20 p/m
of national economists/environmentalists/researchers,
and 6 p/m of a national lawyer;
(vi) Workshop for consultation with provinces (US$30.000).
Workshop for consultations with the public and private
sectors, and NGOs on the policy and regulatory
constraints at the provincial level. The objectives of
the workshop would be to obtain feedback on the
results of the above study, to agree on a hierarchy of
problems, and to prioritize obstacles to be removed.
Costs include a facilitator and travel expenses;



- 51 -                        Annex B
(vii)  Drafting of revised provincial legislation and
regulations (US$130,000). Drafting model legal
documents and regulations in close coordination with
the provinces, and following the priorities in (a) (vi),
while ensuring consistency with Argentine
environmental laws and regulations. This would be
done in about 10 provinces. Costs include about 20
p/m of local lawyers;
(viii)  Workshops with provincial legislators and goverrnents
(US$50.000). Workshops with interested legislators
and governments to explain importance, content, and
implications of revised draft legislation and regulations.
These workshops would be carried out in each affected
region, Mesopotamia, Buenos Aires, and Patagonia
Provinces, and would include a facilitator and travel
costs;
(ix)  Study tour to Chile (US$50000). Study tour to Chile
of a maximum of 20 representatives of provincial and
federal governments and legislatures directly involved
with commercial forest activities. Priority would be
given to provinces further advanced in putting in place
adequate legislation and regulations. The tour would be
for a week; and
(x)  Preparation of a plan and agenda for the approval and
implementation of the new policies (US$52,000). In
close coordination with the federal and provincial
legislatures, propose an agenda for the approval of the
revised draft legislation and regulations. Eight p/m of
local consultants would be required.
(b)   Interinstitutional and Internal Organization (US$228,000)
(i)  Review the interinstitutional relationships network and
design internal organizational structures and
management procedures for entities and administrative
units that require them in line with implementation
requirements (US$138,000). The interinstitutional
relationship network would be reviewed carefully and
adapted to the new development policy that is fostered
by the proposed project. An international organization
specialist would be identified and hired to work for a
year in SAGyP's DPF and INASE to help define
updated and more adequate organizational structures
and foster more modern management procedures and
styles in administration. Similar efforts would be



- 52 -                        Annex B
extended to selected Provinces' "Direcciones de
Bosques"; and
(ii) Management skills' upgrading (US$90,000). Related to
the above input, training would be provided to higher
and mid-level management staff to upgrade their skills
so as to increase the chances of success of the
international consultant's work. This would include
about three two-week management courses for groups
of participants in management procedures adapted to
SAGyP's DPF's and INASE's work programs, and
managers at the provincial level dealing with
plantations, three two-week study tours for six of the
highest-level managers, including possibly one or two
representatives of the private sector, to visit leading
commercial forestry entities in the U.S. or Europe.
The cost of training courses would be minimized
because of the work of the international consultant and
would amount to US$30,000, and the study tours to
US$60,000;
(c)   Personnel Policies and Reward System (US$20,000). A study
would be completed on how public sector personnel policies
affect the forestry sector. Such a study would be aimed at
making clear what are the related constraints that weaken the
potential for sectoral development and proposing ad hoc or
more permanent schemes that could help bridge identified
capacity gaps. A local civil service expert would be hired for
3 months and would work in coordination with his/her
counterpart in SAGyP's DPF and INASE;
(d)   Skills' Upgrading (US$316,000)
(i) Professional and technical training activities
(US$266,000). Professional and technical training
activities would be financed under this ISC to help
bridge individual capacity gaps in technical fields
related to forest plantations. About 20, one to three-
week courses would be organized for a total of about
200 national and provincial civil servants and a few
private sector employees who would participate in
every course to ensure better communication and
exchange of experiences. An international forest-
related trainer would be hired for 6 p/m as well as two
local consultants. Together they would organize and
deliver the courses required. An additional 6 p/m of
international consultants in different specialties would
be hired for short periods of time as warranted by the



- 53 -                       Annex B
different training activities. Other costs related to this
training are estimated at US$50,000;
(ii)  Training activities for other levels of staff (US$50,000).
Other training activities would be delivered by the same
international and local experts defined above. About 30
training activities of a duration of between two to eight
days would be organized, mainly in the Provinces as
required for the strengthening of about 250 mid- or
low-level staff members of the Direcciones de Bosques;
(e)   Support for Project Implementation (US$1,670,000). The ISC
would strengthen the capacity of SAGyP to manage and
coordinate project implementation. A Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) would be established to assist the Sub-Secretary of
Production in implementing the project. The PIU would
comprise a Project Coordinator, a Technical Manager, a
Procurement Specialist, and an Accountant. The Project
Coordinator would be recruited locally for the coordination of
implementation for the duration of the Project and would be
responsible for, inter alia: (i) putting in place, and
maintaining, a system for monitoring project implementation;
(ii) coordinating the preparation of annual work programs
("POAs"), bi-annual progress reports to the Bank, and the
production of audit reports; (iii) supervising the administration
of the Special Account; (iv) preparing, in cooperation with the
Technical Manager, all documents for the Mid-Term Review
and ensuring their quality; and (v) completing, in cooperation
with the Technical Manager, an evaluation of the Project at the
end of its life. He/she would ultimately be the link between
Bank supervision staff and SAGyP. The Technical Manager
would be recruited locally for the duration of the project and
would be responsible for ensuring the technical quality of all
work under the project, and, in cooperation with the Project
Coordinator, for preparing the required documentation for the
Mid-Term Review, and for preparing the project evaluation
report at the end of the project's life. The Procurement
Specialist would be recruited locally for a total of about 20
months and would be responsible for ensuring that
procurement procedures follow Bank guidelines, and for
making recommendations on award of contracts to the PIU.
The Accountant would be recruited locally for the duration of
the Project and would be responsible for financial record
keeping, the Special Account, and disbursement requests. All
of these experts would work under the overall direction of the
PIU. The ISC would also include provision for vehicles and
equipment (telephones, photocopiers, fax machines and



- 54 -                      Annex B
computers) as required, for about US$180,000, and include
incremental operating costs for the PIU of US$190,000.



-55-                           Annex C
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research and Information Generation and Dissemination Component
A. Sub-Component: Plantation Forest Inventory and Development and
Management of a Commercial Forestry Database
(Baseline Costs US$3.0 million)'
Objective and Rationale
1.           Reliable information on the extent, distribution and condition
of forest plantations in Argentina is lacking. Furthermore, with the
dissolution of IFONA in 1991, the monitoring of forest product output has
ceased and there is now a dearth of up-to-date statistics on production and
prices in the sector. A lack of reliable information on the growing stock, the
geographical distribution of plantations, tree-planting trends, and the annual
output of forest products is a constraint to the formation of public policy for
the sector. The objective of the sub-component would be to: (i) complete a
plantation forest inventory, and create and maintain current a database on
forest plantations; (ii) collect, input and store such other statistics in the
database as are necessary for SAGyP to meet its mandate in the commercial
forestry sector; and (iii) analyze data and disseminate information from the
database.
2.           The first objective would be realized by completing a low
intensity, reconnaissance level inventory of plantations, which would collect
essential qualitative and quantitative information on the extent, distribution,
composition and age structure of forest plantations in Argentina, and
inputting the data from the inventory into a database. The second objective
would be pursued partly through strengthened relations between units within
SAGyP handling the collection of raw data, but also in cooperation with
other agencies, including, in particular, the Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y
Censos (INDEC), the provinces and SRNyAH. In all instances where it is
feasible, SAGyP would be encouraged to pursue the least cost option of
inputting into its database raw statistics generated by other agencies. SAGyP
should concentrate on collecting only the incremental and unavailable raw
data required by its unique mandate, and transforming all data, from
whatever source, into information that would satisfy its own needs and those
of others concerned with commercial forestry. The third objective would be
realized by strengthening the capacity of SAGyP to discern the needs of its
I.    Additional background information and more detailed technical specifications are given in FAO/CP
Technical Annex 6--See Documents in Project File, Annex J.



- 56 -                        Annex C
clients and to respond appropriately by analyzing data and disseminating the
information required either by the private sector or other public agencies.
Description
3.           Phase 1 would involve: (a) the purchase of two sets of
computer-compatible tapes of satellite imagery for the areas of Argentina
containing plantation forests, one at the beginning of the project, and the
second toward the end; (b) the preparation from an analysis of the first set of
these tapes of a basic map of plantations at a scale of 1:100,000; and (c) the
preparation from an analysis of the second set of these tapes of a map of
plantations at a scale of 1:100,000, which would form the foundation for
monitoring changes in plantations.
4.           Phase 2 of the plantation forest inventory would involve
systematic field sampling, or ground truthing, to verify the spectral
signatures of different plantation types (tree species, age and approximate
standing volumes) on satellite images. To do this, a 2.5 km x 2.5 km grid
would be used to locate sample plots, where species composition, age class
(e.g., 0-5 years, 5-10 years, over 10 years) and standing volumes (using
relascope sweeps) would be verified. This information would be sufficient to
enable remote sensing techniques to be used in calculating plantation areas by
species and volumes for the entire country. Around 50 percent of the plots
laid down would be permanently marked and mapped, and would be
remeasured every 5 years to monitor changes in the growing stock.
5.           Beyond the data generated by the plantation forest inventory,
SAGyP may wish to include in its database other priority statistics on
commercial forestry. Such statistics may not now be collected, and federal
and provincial capacities to regularly collect these would have to be
strengthened, at least in some instances. Examples of such statistics would
be some of those related to prices, and those dealing with the production of
roundwood and processed wood. As already stated earlier, in all instances
where it is feasible, SAGyP would be encouraged to pursue the least-cost
option of inputting into its database raw statistics collected by other agencies.
SAGyP should concentrate on collecting only the incremental and unavailable
raw data required by its unique mandate, and transforming all data, from
whatever source, into information that would satisfy its own needs and those
of others concerned with commercial forestry.
6.          In instances where the collection of statistics by SAGyP is
justified, it would be done through: (i) the preparation of a standard
methodology for collecting data; and (ii) strengthening the capacity of the
Statistics Unit within SAGyP to handle the task. This Statistics Unit would
be renamed the Database Management Unit (DMU) because of its increased
responsibilities, and henceforth in this report will be referred to by that
name. Under the project, the capacity of the existing Statistics Unit in
SAGyP, renamed the DMU, to take the lead in guiding and assisting



- 57 -                        Annex C
provinces in commercial forest product data collection would be
strengthened. Inputs at the SAGyP level would consist mainly of staff
training and limited amounts of equipment (computers and
telecommunications equipment) to receive, manage and publish commercial
forestry data. At the provincial level, assistance would take the form of
workshops to sharpen awareness of the importance of collecting reliable
commercial forestry data. Depending on the response and demonstrated
commitment of individual provinces (to be assessed after the workshops by
the resources they are willing to commit to the task), SAGyP would provide
provincial staff with hands-on assistance in initiating data collection work in
the field. All work would be done through short-term consultancies and
every effort would be made to collect data in a cost-effective way, bearing in
mind the other data collection activities already being undertaken by SAGyP
and others.
Cost Estimates and Implementation of Phase 1
7.           Phase 1 would have a baseline cost of US$1.0 million.
Baseline costs include: (a) the purchase of two sets of computer-compatible
tapes of satellite imagery, one at the beginning of the project, and the second
toward the end (US$460,000); (b) 40 person-months of internationally
recruited consultants for image analysis and map production; and (c) 20
person-months of locally recruited consultants to work with those recruited
internationally.
8.           The preparation of Terms of Reference (TORs) for the lead
consultant firm, selection criteria, appraisal of consultant proposals, selection
of a lead consultant firm to execute Phase 1, and their supervision, would be
carried out by DPF. A breakdown of costs is given in Table C. 1.



-58-                          AnnexC
Table C. 1. Baseline Costs for Phase 1 of the Inventory of Plantations
Input Description                    (US$'000)
Computer-compatible tapes of satellite imagery             460
Internationally recruited lead consultant firm, including
consultants for about 40 person-months (p/m) at US$10,000
per month, which includes all expenses except domestic
travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires                400
Locally recruited consultants for 20 months at US$4,000
per month, which includes all expenses except domestic
travel and subsistence outside place of residence           80
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for
internationally recruited consultants, and outside place of
residence for locally recruited consultants, calculated at the
rate of about US$900 per consultant month                   60
Total cost of Phase 1                                     1,000
Cost Estimates and Implementation of Phase 2
9.           Phase 2 would have a baseline cost of US$2.0 million. This
would include:
(a)   design, completion, and maintenance of the inventory of
plantations:
(i)  45 person months (p/m) of internationally recruited
consultants (the lead consultant firm) for designing
and obtaining agreement to the approach and
methodology for the inventory, preparing terms-of-
reference and inventory manual, and managing the
inventory work of other locally-recruited consultants,
exercising quality control;
(ii)  12 p/m of internationally recruited consultants for
training; these would be supplied by the lead
consultant firm as part of its contract;
(iii)  120 p/m of local consultants for field sampling and data
reporting and training; and
(iv) two vehicles and equipment;



-59-                          Annex C
(b)   development and management of a database in the Database
Management Unit (DMU) of SAGyP:
(i)  16 person-months of internationally recruited
consultants for selecting and installing the software for
data processing, and training and managing the
Statistics Unit staff until they are capable of taking on
responsibility for managing the database;
(ii)  12 person-months of internationally recruited
consultants for training provincial staff in data
collection and database management;
(iii)  40 person-months of locally recruited consultants for
training provincial staff in data collection, and inputting
data into the database in the Statistical Unit in SAGyP;
(iv)  workshops at the provincial level; and
(v)  software and hardware for the Geographic Information
System (GIS).
10.          All inventory work would be carried out under consultant
contracts. Cost estimates are for guidance only and may differ from bid
submissions. For ground truthing, plantations areas would be divided into
different geographical areas, and field work in these areas could be done by
either one or more consultant firms or entities. SAGyP, through the
internationally recruited lead consultant firm, would check the quality of
field work by carrying out a 15 percent field check on sample plots. The
administrative procedures for issuing contracts would be governed by the
Project Implementation Manual prepared by SAGyP. A summary of baseline
cost is given in Table C.2.



- 60 -                       Annex C
Table C.2. Baseline Costs for Phase 2 of Inventory of Plantations
Input Description                  (US$'000)
Vehicles and equipment                                290
Internationally recruited consultants for 85 person
months (p/m) at US$10,000 per month, which includes
all expenses except domestic travel and subsistence
outside Buenos Aires                                  850
Locally recruited consultants for 160 months at
US$4,000 per p/m, which includes all expenses except
domestic travel and subsistence outside place of
residence                                             640
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for
internationally recruited consultants, and outside place of
residence for locally recruited consultants, calculated at
the rate of about US$730 per consultant month         180
Workshops at the provincial level                     70
Total Phase 2                                       2,030
B. Sub-Component: Markets and Grading Systems
(Baseline Costs US$0.6 million)
Objective and Rationale
I1.         The processing of wood products is dominated by many small
firms; hence, there are large transaction costs involved in putting in place
appropriate grading systems and enforcing them. Government involvement is
aimed at resolving this problem, and thereby increasing the competitiveness
of Argentine wood products. This would involve three main activities: (i)
studies to identify export markets for sawnwood in which Argentine mills
have at least the potential to be competitive; (ii) development of a grading
system for sawnwood appropriate to the markets identified; and (iii)
completion of a training program for qualified mill operators and owners who
express interest.
Description
12.         The first step would be to identify the export markets which
appear most promising for wood products. For each of the two most
promising markets identified (e.g., the European Union and the United
States), the prevailing grading system would be described in detail. The
studies should also specify any other peculiarities of these markets, including
sanitary restrictions. Once the priority markets have been identified and



- 61 -                        Annex C
agreed on, and depending on the interest displayed by the private sector, a
training program would be offered which would include: (a) workshops for
private mill owners and operators; (b) partial cost sharing of overseas tours
to the two selected markets for carefully selected public employees and
private mill owners and operators in order to facilitate contacts with
importers; and (c) on-the-job training of selected public and private sector
employees who may be interested in positions as grading inspectors and
instructors for small sawmills, or employees of large mills. The courses
would be organized so that participants would be able to grade according to
the rules of the identified priority markets.
Cost Estimate and Implementation
13.         Table C.3 gives a breakdown of baseline costs.
Table C.3. Baseline Cost for Markets and Grading Systems
Input Description                    (US$'000)
Markets and grading systems: an internationally recruited
firm or firms would be selected to handle the completion of
the marketing studies, development of appropriate grading
systems, development of an implementation plan for the
grading systems, and training. Costs were calculated as
follows: 24 p/m of internationally recruited consultants at
US$10,000 per month (US$240,000); 24 p/m of locally
recruited consultants at US$5,000 per month (US$120,000);
travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires at the rate of
about US$1,500 per consultant month (US$72,000);
workshops and training, including overseas trips
(US$168,000)                                              600
14.         The markets and grading systems studies and related training
would be carried out under the overall management of DPF. It would select
an internationally recruited consultant firm or firms, which, in turn, would be
assisted by local consultants, and they would complete the task based on
terms-of-reference prepared by DPF.



- 62 -                        Annex C
C. Sub-Component: Tree Selection and Breeding
(Baseline Costs US$2.6 million)
Objectives and Rationale
15.          The tree selection and breeding program would initiate a long-
term effort to reach a higher level of species domestication in Argentina. The
tree breeding program would concentrate on pines and eucalypti, the two
most important genera in Argentina's planting program. While the selection
and breeding program would be more inclusive of other species with good
potential, experience has shown that the best success in domestication has
been in instances in which efforts were concentrated on a single species or
group of species.
Description
16.          The first step of the program would be to thoroughly review
growth and form characteristics of any known sources of conifers,
particularly pines, and broadleaf species, particularly eucalypti, in Argentina
and compare them with published data. At the same time, sources of
improved seeds or clones should be imported from countries with successful
breeding programs. On the basis of this superior genetic material of known
origin, a seed supply and clonal planting stock program would be developed.
The breeding program would include both a seed and a clonal program. The
seed program would involve open pollinated seed collections from selected
trees for half-sib progeny trials, and also centralization of the selected trees
through grafting to establish populations for controlled pollination work. The
espalier system with flower inducing chemical treatments developed at
CSIRO in Australia would provide the quickest results. The clonal program
would establish cutting orchards and propagation facilities, then develop two
initial planting populations: one of carefully identified clonal populations for
progeny testing, and the other for training in cloning procedures.
Cost Estimates and Implementation
17.          The baseline cost estimate is US$2.6 million and would
include:
(a)   design and implementation of a breeding program for conifers,
particularly pines:
(i)  5 p/m of internationally recruited consultant for a
thorough review and international comparison of
available genetic material of pines in Argentina;
(ii)  15 p/m of internationally recruited consultant geneticist
to assist with the design and start-up of a pine breeding
operation;



- 63 -                          Annex C
(iii)  60 p/m of locally recruited consultant specialist to
manage the program;
(iv)  65 p/m of field assistance to establish and care for
plantings;
(v)  supplies (imported genetic material, chemicals,
fertilizers, laboratory and nursery supplies, tools, etc.),
costing about US$109,000;
(vi)  vehicles and equipment (clonal unit, seed unit, scale,
and two vehicles), costing about US$292,000;
(vii)  construction (modifications to existing laboratory),
costing about US$138,000;
(viii)  land preparation, fencing and establishment cost of
orchards, costing about US$25,000; and
(ix)  training, including short courses for local specialists in
cloning and other breeding technology (US$110,000).
(b)    design and implementation of a breeding program for broadleaf
species, particularly Eucalypti:
(i)  5 p/m of internationally recruited consultant for a
thorough review and international comparison of
available genetic material of eucalypti in Argentina;
(ii)  15 p/m of internationally recruited consultant geneticist
to assist with the design and start up of a eucalypti
breeding operation;
(iii)  65 p/m of locally recruited specialist to manage the
breeding program for five years;
(iv)  60 p/m of field assistance to establish and care for
plantings;
(v)  supplies (imported genetic material, chemicals,
fertilizers, laboratory and nursery supplies, tools, etc ),
costing about US$109,000;
(vi)  vehicles and equipment (clonal unit, seed unit, scale,
and 2 vehicles), costing about US$293,000;



- 64 -                       Annex C
(vii)  construction (modifications to existing laboratory),
costing about US$137,000;
(viii)  land preparation, fencing and establishment cost of
orchards, costing about US$25,000; and
(ix)  training, including short courses for local specialists in
espalier system and other breeding technology
(US$110,000).
18.   A breakdown of baseline costs is shown in Table CA.
Table C.4. Baseline Costs of Tree Selection and Breeding Program
Input Description                      US$'000)
Construction                                                    275
Vehicles and Equipment                                          585
40 p/m of internationally recruited consultants at US$10,000 per
month, which includes all expenses except domestic travel and
subsistence outside Buenos Aires                                400
120 p/m of locally recruited consultants at US$5,000 per month,
which includes all expenses except domestic travel and subsistence
outside place of residence                                      600
130 p/m of field workers at US$400 per month                    52
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for
internationally recruited consultants, and outside place of resident
for locally recruited consultants, calculated at the rate of about
US$1,000 per consultant month                                   160
Supplies                                                       218
Orchard establishment                                           50
Training                                                       220
Total for tree breeding and selection                         2,560
Implementation
19.         The tree selection and breeding program and related training
would be carried out by SAGyP with the assistance of INTA.



- 65 -                        Annex C
D. Sub-Component: Seedling Improvement and Marketing Program
(Baseline Costs US$1.8 million)
Objectives and Rationale
20.          Given that the tree breeding and selection program is part of a
long-term strategy to improve the genetic quality of material available to
nurseries, there is still the short-term problem of improving the production,
marketing and use of improved planting material in Argentina. Nursery
owners need to improve their nursery practices to improve the morphological
characteristics of seedling, and plantation owners have to overcome their
present inability to distinguish between genetically and morphologically
superior seedlings and those of lesser quality. A production and marketing
research effort to address these latter problems would be the focus of this
sub-component.
21.          While there is no census of forest tree nurseries for
Argentina, it is estimated that there are more than 1,000 operators in the
areas covered by the existing government grant program for new plantation
development. The Province of Misiones alone has about 150 nurseries, most
of which are small- to medium-size operations (i.e., 50,000 to 1,000,000
seedlings). Generally, the large nurseries (i.e., 3-7 million seedlings
capacity) in Argentina are part of a large-scale reforestation operation for a
pulp mill or a large export firm. These large nurseries, which produce about
40 percent of the country's nursery stock to service their own plantations,
recognize and have the capacity to use advanced production technology and
imported, certified seed. The small to medium-size nurseries, however,
which supply more than 60 percent of the country's planting material,
generally use genetically inferior seed and outmoded nursery practices,
resulting in the production and planting of seedlings of highly variable, and
generally poor, quality. This results in poor survival rates and less than
optimal growth rates, and, thus, inefficient and uncompetitive plantations.
With the use of good quality genetic material, along with already known,
tried and tested improved production technologies, significant productivity
gains--of the order of 20-50 percent--can be achieved.
22.          Although these technological conditions are important for
improving planting material, the degree to which they may be immediately
applied is limited by the local knowledge base, the higher costs of improved
seedling production, and the general inability of plantation owners to
distinguish good from poor quality seedlings, and, hence, an unwillingness to
pay a price which would at least compensate for the incremental costs of
producing good quality planting material. The higher cost of production is
mainly attributable to the cost of quality germplasm, which must be imported
because of the low level of species domestication in the country. The public
sector could play an important role in providing the information needed for
adoption of improved planting material, which would have positive economic
benefits throughout the country. The objective, therefore, is to improve



- 66 -                        Annex C
yields and survival rates of trees in new forest plantations by promoting the
expanded production, marketing and use of improved planting material by
nurseries.
Description
23.          The strategy for achieving this objective would involve three
main elements:
(a)   making information on improved seed sourcing and nursery
management techniques more readily available;
(b)   certifying improved seeds, seed producers, planting material
produced with that improved seed, and nurseries; and
(c)   improving the market for good quality seedlings.
24.          Information. Technical assistance contracts would be awarded
to two internationally recruited seed and wholesale nursery firms (one firm
would probably specialize in broadleaf species, particularly eucalypti, the
other in conifers) to carry out three main tasks: (i) helping interested
nurserymen determine the best provenances of improved seed for the special
soil and climatic conditions of each market area; (ii) facilitating the purchase
of that seed by nurseries by providing information on sourcing; and (iii)
training interested nursery operators in improved nursery techniques and
INASE staff in procedures for handling certification.
25.          The first task would involve computer matching of soil and
climatic conditions in specific micro regions with identified sources of
improved seed from analogous areas where improved seed is commercially
available.
26.          The second task would be carried out by advising nursery
owners on where and how to buy their seed, or by assisting them through
advise on how to procure the seed in bulk (total demand for seed would be in
the range of US$1.0 million annually). It would probably be advantageous
for nurserypeople to opt to buy the seed in bulk, because it would probably
mean a lower price, if they can overcome the transaction costs involved.
The two consultant firms would work closely with INASE and nursery
owners and would assist them in identifying seed sources for each site.
27.          Considering the relatively small size of Argentine nurseries,
the most cost-effective way of implementing the third task would be through
workshops and field visits to the demonstration nursery operation. Improved
nursery management techniques would probably involve: (i) species to site
matching; (ii) improved seed source selection; (iii) use of best planting
containers and organic potting media; (vi) use of improved watering systems
to ensure a reliable and even application; (vii) application of scientific



- 67 -                         Annex C
planting stock culling; (viii) root pruning; (ix) appropriate use of fertilizers
and pesticides; and (x) shading. Training of INASE staff in certification
procedures would be through courses specifically tailored by the consultants
for this purpose.
28.          Certification. To allow for, and encourage the development of,
a local supply of source identified, improved seed, INASE would initiate a
seed certification program. INASE would also set up a system to certify
nurseries that produce stock with improved seed and use improved
technology. INASE would seek technical assistance from INTA or the
consultants for both the certification of locally produced seed as well as for
the certification of nurseries, and, thereby, seedlings.
29.          Increasin2 the Market for Good Quality Seedlings. The
demand for good quality planting material would be boosted by SAGyP
precluding the use of anything but certified planting material in any of its
assisted plantation programs. To be eligible for participation in SAGyP-
grant-assisted plantation programs, applicants would agree to abide by
"Technical Guidelines", which, inter alia, would require that all new
plantations be established with seedlings that have been certified as "source
identified", or with clonal material from outstanding trees from the best
provenances (if and when available), and raised in nurseries that meet
minimal requirements in applying improved technology designed to produce
morphologically improved seedlings. These later nurseries would be limited
to those that would carry the INASE certificate. A receipt from a certified
nursery could be used for verification purposes.
Cost Estimates
30.          The baseline cost of this activity has been estimated at US$1.8
million over five years, and would include:
(a)    6 person months (p/ni) of internationally recruited consultants
to assist INASE design and initiate a work program for
certifying seed and nursery stock;
(b)    10 p/m of internationally recruited consultants to design and
implement a seedling and seed demand survey and for
computer matching of specific sites with improved seeds from
analogous areas;
(c)    14 p/m of internationally recruited consultants to advise/assist
nursery owners identify sources and procure improved seed;
(d)   44 p/m of internationally recruited consultants to transfer
improved nursery techniques to nursery operators through
demonstration, workshops, field visits, and other means;



- 68 -                        Annex C
(e)   60 p/m of locally recruited consultants to help INASE
implement the seed and seedling certification programs;
(f)   80 p/m of locally recruited consultants for field assistance with
the seed demand survey, the certification program, the
detailing of seed, and the training program;
(g)   equipment and materials to upgrade four carefully selected
private nurseries in different parts of the country so they could
serve as demonstration nurseries;
(h)   two vehicles and equipment for the seed certification program;
and
(i)   printing manuals.
31.   A breakdown of base costs is shown in Table C.5.
Table C.5. Baseline Costs for Seedling Improvement
and Marketing Program
Input Description                    (US$'000)
Vehicles and equipment                                     306
Two firms of internationally recruited consultants for a total
of 74 p/m at US$10,000 per month, which includes all
expenses except domestic travel and subsistence outside
Buenos Aires                                               740
Locally recruited consultants for 140 p/m at US$4,000 per
month, which includes all expenses except domestic travel
and subsistence outside place of residence.                560
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for
internationally recruited consultants, and outside place of
residence for locally recruited consultants, calculated at the
rate of about US$1,000 per consultant month.               214
Publishing/Printing                                         10
Total costs                                              1,830
Implementation
32.          The seedling improvement and marketing program would be
implemented by DPF with the assistance of INASE which would have
responsibility for certification. DPF and INASE would be assisted by two



- 69 -                        Annex C
internationally recruited consultant firms: one specializing in broadleaf
species, particularly eucalypti, and the other in conifers. Selection criteria
for the two consultant firms would be based on the reputation of the firms in
managing state-of-the-art nursery operation, and the quality of their
proposals.
E. Sub-Component: Plantation Management Research, Training
and Extension (Baseline Costs US$4.2 million)
Objectives and Rationale
33.          Plantation management research would be part of an INTA-
supported long-term program of applied field research involving trials on tree
spacing (especially for silvopastoral purposes as well as for optimum
production of timber), pruning, thinning, and plantation establishment
(including fertilization, land preparation, and weed control). Such research
would complement work already underway in Argentina and is needed to
narrow the gap between the level of technical knowledge in Argentina on
such matters and among competitors such as New Zealand with which
Argentina must compete in world markets. Careful records of all research
would be kept and economic analysis completed in order to assess the cost
effectiveness of proposed improved technologies.
34.          Also under this activity, and in order to disseminate the
research findings, and provide guidelines for plantation establishment
consistent with Argentine environmental laws and regulations, to the more
generalist extension agents, SAGyP with the assistance of INTA would
select, train and direct a small core of about 10 subject matter specialists to
perform this function.
35.          Under research, a major effort would be made to strengthen
INTA's capacity to carry out applied plantation management research.
Toward this end, two categories of training would be included: (a) extended
training stays in New Zealand, Australia and the United States; and (b)
graduate work, leading toward degree programs in overseas universities with
excellent quality forestry programs.
Cost Estimate and Implementation
36.          The baseline cost estimate are as follows: (a) US$2.1 million
for plantation research; (b) US$0.5 million for training research staff; and (c)
US$1.6 million for the small core of subject matter specialists in plantation
technology transfer to more generalist extension agents, who, in turn, would
disseminate the information to plantation owners and operators. Each subject
matter specialist would be paid about US$1,500 per month, plus an additional
allowance of about US$110 per month for fuel and subsistence when away
from his/her residence. The total cost of these two items would be about



-70 -                         Annex C
US$966,000. To equip this core of specialists with vehicles would cost an
additional US$400,000. The balance of the US$1.6 million would go to
upgrading the level of training of this core of 10 subject matter specialists.
37.          The research part of this activity would be implemented by
SAGyP with the assistance of INTA because of INTA's experience and
proven capacity in implementing such research programs successfully.
SAGyP, with the assistance of INTA, would be encouraged, however, to
carry out the proposed research program jointly with private sector research
organizations or universities in all cases where this is feasible.
38.          SAGyP, with the assistance of INTA. would also implement
the extension part of this sub-component. As already stated, SAGyP with the
assistance of INTA would train a small core of subject matter specialists at
INTA's research facilities or other suitable locations. These subject matter
specialists would be recruited as consultants.
F. Sub-Component: Patagonia (Baseline Costs US$1.0 million)
Objectives and Rationale
39.          The cold, arid Patagonia region is endemic to Argentina and
occupies most of the southern part of the country. The region, which covers
a total of 762,000 km2 (27 percent of the country), consists of three natural
zones, namely: (i) the Steppe, or arid grassland, which is the largest
(650,000 km2) and most arid (750 to less than 300 mm precipitation/year);
(ii) the Pre-Cordillera, which covers a narrow band of steeply sloping land
of altitudes of around 1,000-2,000 MASL, and with annual precipitation of
around 750 to 2,000 mm; and (iii) the Cordillera, in the high Andes, with
elevations above 2,000 MASL and annual precipitation of 1,000 to 3,000
mm. Strong winds are a characteristic of the entire region. While much of
the Cordillera and Pre-Cordillera is well protected in the National Park's
system, there are severe desertification problems in the Steppe zone.
40.          The proximate main cause of land degradation is overgrazing
and grazing during the wrong season, mainly with introduced ruminants.
Cattle, sheep and goats have largely replaced the indigenous animals in this
region where extensive agriculture (meat, wood, furs and hides) is the main
economic activity (US$271 million/annum), accounting for 40 percent of the
region's GDP. Pasture management is rare, even on the larger holdings,
partially because of the lack of interior and perimeter fencing on both small
and large holdings. Overgrazing leads to a general degradation of the native
grass ecosystem and a transition to a desert landscape, where unpalatable
shrubs and bare ground begin to dominate. Degraded pastures, dust storms
and increased flooding and other symptoms of desertification in the Patagonia
have affected the living standards of the local people. For example, in Santa
Cruz--a province where information is available--some 200 ranches have been



- 71 -                       Annex C
abandoned due to decreased yield of 15 percent or more, brought about by
desertification. Little is known, however, about the overall extent to which
desertification has and will affect the ecosystem and the people living in
Patagonia, the underlying forces that drive the process, and the costs to
Argentina if the process continues.
41.          Studies carried out by INTA on some 40,000 km2 of the
Patagonia Steppe--using an FAO system for measuring degrees of
desertification--have shown that 80 percent of the area surveyed has been at
least moderately degraded, and 10 percent has reached severe levels of
desertification. Those studies have also shown that an additional 250,000 ha
of desert are being created each year. Although INTA/GTZ commenced
work on monitoring the desertification process on three narrow transects in
1990, there is no strategy for addressing the problem and there have been no
on-the-ground activities to halt or reverse the process.
42.          The objectives of this sub-component, therefore, are to: (a)
collect, analyze, interpret, and report on what is known about the economic,
social, biological, historic, climatic and other factors driving the
desertification process in Patagonia; (b) determine the costs to Argentina, the
local population, and biodiversity and hydrological systems if the process
continues unabated; (c) assess the options available for addressing the
problem based on research and experience in Argentina, Australia, South
Africa, and the United States; (d) estimate the expected cost-benefit ratios of
implementing a group of the best options available, both singly and
collectively; (e) outline an appropriate role for the state in responding to the
phenomenon; and (f) develop a consensus among federal, state and local
governments, the private sector, and NGOs on an action plan for the state in
the Patagonia region.
Description
43.          To meet this objective, the project would support a
comprehensive study of Patagonia in response to the objectives outlined
above. This study would be designed to help policy makers develop a
strategy for better managing the Patagonia. This would require a
combination of internationally and locally recruited expertise and
experiences. A workshop to discuss the findings of the study and to begin
the process of consensus building would also be included.
Cost Estimate
44.          The baseline cost of this sub-component is estimated at US$1.0
million. A breakdown of costs is given in Table C.6.



- 72 -                       Annex C
Table C.6. Baseline Cost of the Patagonia Sub-component
Input Description                   (US$'000)
Lead Consultant Finn: 36 p/m of internationally recruited
consultants at US$10,000 per month to: (i) manage the
overall study, provide guidance and quality control to other
consultants recruited to complete particular parts of the
work, and prepare final report, including an executive
summary; (ii) analyze options available for addressing the
problem based on research and experience in Argentina,
Australia, South Africa, and the United States; (iii) analyze
the expected benefit costs ratios of implementing a group of
the best options available, both singly and collectively; and
(iv) analyze the appropriate role for the state in responding
to the phenomenon, including investment proposals, if
appropriate                                              360
18 p/m of internationally recruited consultants at
US$10,000 per month to synthesize and report on the
Australian, South African, and U.S. experiences          180
Local consultants: (i) 20 p/m of locally recruited
consultants at US$5,000 per month to synthesize and report
on the Argentine experience (US$100,000); (ii) 10 p/m of
locally recruited consultants at US$5,000 per month to
analyze the costs to Argentina, the local population, and
biodiversity and hydrological systems if the process
continues unabated (US$50,000)                           150
Workshop for consensus building and feedback             60
Travel and subsistence at about US$1,500 per consultant
month outside Buenos Aires for internationally recruited
consultants in Argentina, and outside place of residence for
others                                                   150
Communications by fax and phone                          50
Miscellaneous                                            50
Total cost                                             1,000
Implementation
45.         Because of the scope of the study, the Patagonia sub-
component would be managed directly by the Sub-Secretary of Production
(with assistance from the PIU) working in close cooperation with other
interested parties in the federal government, provincial governments
concerned, the private sector, and NGOs. The studies under this sub-



- 73 -                          Annex C
component would be carried out by an internationally recruited lead
consultant firm, assisted by other internationally and locally recruited
consultants, based on terms-of-reference prepared by SAGyP.



- 74 -                            Annex D
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Small Farmer Component (Baseline Costs US$7.2 million)'
A. Rationale and Objectives
Forest Degradation
1.             The native forests of Argentina, estimated to cover some 23
percent of the country (i.e., 64 million ha), are used by small farmers and
rural populations as a source of firewood, timber, non-wood forest products,
forage and, above all, arable land. These forests are under considerable
pressure from small farmers and their expanding/shifting agriculture and
overgrazing, which is resulting in deforestation, forest degradation, soil
erosion and other forms of environmental damage such as loss of
biodiversity. The most recent estimates place the loss of natural forests and
woodlands at about 120,000 ha per year. Although it has one of the lowest
rates in Latin America in percentage terms, Argentina now ranks 5th in total
area deforested annually, after Brazil, Venezuela, Colombia and Bolivia.
Since the turn of the century, the area of native forests has been halved. The
most endangered forest areas are the Parque Chaqueno in the north western
part of the country, the subtropical humid forests of Misiones (also called the
Mata Atlantica) and the selva Tucuman orandense (yungus vegetation type).
2.             The ecological stability of Argentina is threatened by the rapid
rate of natural forest degradation. Nationally, forests help regulate water
supply and soil erosion, and, thus, help sustain urban and rural water and
hydroelectric infrastructure. Sedimentation of streams, brought about by soil
erosion following deforestation, is now considered a major and immediate
threat to some hydro-electric projects. Locally, forests buffer the
hydrological cycle, and when disturbed, the resultant flooding can become a
severe threat to life and infrastructure. The degradation of the Chaco forest
in particular, which covers a large part of the great watersheds of the Parana,
is believed to contribute to the chronic flooding and siltation of that great
river. Table D. 1 gives examples, totalling US$120 million, of the costs to
State agencies over the period 1984-1985, of repairing infrastructure
damaged by flooding, due in part to the deforestation of watersheds.
1.     This annex is derived from: (i) SAGyP document--Proyecto de Desarrollo Forestal (versi6n Preliminar).
Diciembre de 1993. Capitulo 13, "Capacitaci6n, Promoci6n, Investigaci6n, Extensi6n e Informaci6n
(pages 416-442); and (ii) FAO/CP Report No 133/94 CP-ARG.17--"Conservation Incentives to Small
Farmers in Buffer Zones".



- 75 -                       Annex D
Table D. 1. Repair Costs of Flood Damage to Public Infrastructure (1984-'85)
Agency                          (US$'000)
Ferrocarriles Argentinos                               22,908
Direcci6n Nacional de Vialidad                          14,955
Gas del Estado                                          5,625
Direcciones Provinciales de Vialidad, Tucuman           1,985
Direcciones Provinciales de Vialidad, Salta             1,072
Direcciones Provinciales de Vialidad, Jujuy             1,266
Direcciones Provinciales de Obras Sanitarias. Tucuman   5,211
Departamento General de Irrigaci6n de Tucuman           4,158
Direcciones Provinciales del Agua de Tucuman            9,302
Administraci6n General de Aguas de Salta                1,586
Direcci6n de Agua Potable y Saneamiento, Jujuy           985
Direcciones Provinciales de Hidrdulica, Jujuy           3,414
Other public sector agencies (energy, packing)         27,500
Servicios de transporte y Provisi6n de Agua            20,000
Total costs                                            119,967
Source: P.N.P.C.I.--MOSP--PNUD, Arg 85/008 (1988).
3.           Globally, forests are host to a large biodiversity of still
undiscovered importance and retain a substantial stock of carbon that, if
released into the atmosphere, would contribute to the greenhouse effect. The
young and fragile geological formations of the Yungus forest (Selva
Tucuman), which is believed to be the country's richest in terms of
biodiversity, is subject to severe erosion as well as loss of wildlife habitat.
Some of the more endangered mammals include the tapir, the corzuelas
(Mazama spp), the oso melero, the yaguarete, the cai monkey (Cebus apella)
and the lobito comun (Lontra longicaudis). Furthermore, native forests are
the basis for the production of many forest products, which are collected
through informal mechanisms and benefit mostly rural poor populations.
Small Farmers
4.           The SAGyP has defined small farmers as those who: (i) live
on a separate property; (ii) use mostly family labor; (iii) have an income less



- 76 -                         Annex D
than two minimum rural salaries per month (Arg$450/month); and (iv) have
assets (excluding land) valued at Arg$20,000 or less. Small farmers so
defined are also characterized by: (i) small farm area in relation to family
size; (ii) uncertain or undefined land tenure; (iii) low remuneration for family
labor; (iv) limited access to improved technology and technical assistance; (v)
very limited access to formal credit; (vi) low capacity to negotiate farm
product prices; and (vii) weak farmers' organizations. Outside the Pampa,
small farmers comprise more than 40 percent of properties. Regionally, the
highest concentration of small farmers is found in the Northeast (NEA) and
the Northwest (NOA) where they are responsible for 40 percent and 20
percent, respectively, of the cropped area. According to IFAD (1993), these
two regions contain 53 percent (i.e., 245,000 homes) of the rural poor in
Argentina.
5.           The average small-farm property and income size is highly
variable, but there are some regional trends. The average size of a small
farm is 3-5 ha in Salta, 10-100 ha in the Parque Chaqueno, 12-25 ha in
Misiones, and over 100 ha in Patagonia. According to the Instituto Nacional
de Estadistica y Censos (INDEC), Salta has the highest provincial percentage
of poor farmers in the country (71 percent of its producers are qualified as
poor), followed by Neuquen (64.5 percent). In Misiones, with the largest
subtropical forests in Argentina, 49 percent of the producers are classified as
poor.
6.           The minifundio, as a subsistence unit, has an economic
rationale that differs substantially from that of larger farms: its goal is to
secure the family's food supply and other subsistence requirements by
whatever means possible. Some of the main agricultural activities of small
farmers by region are: (i) cotton, tobacco, yerba mate, cassava, horticulture
and cattle in the NEA region; (ii) sugar cane, tobacco, cotton, sheep, goats
and andean camelids in the NOA region; (iii) fruits and goats in the Salta-
Jujuy region; (iv) sheep and goat raising in the Patagonia region; and (v)
dairy cattle, goats and cereals in the Center region. The production scheme
of the minifundio is essentially a subsistence system based on the use of the
farmer's own labor and the available natural resources.
7.           Because of the tremendous pressure that small farmers place
on the natural forest resources, mainly through their farming and grazing
practices, Government has recognized the need to assist these people to adopt
more sustainable and less environmentally-destructive farming systems.
Work being done by agencies such as Fundaci6n INTA, Provincial
Ministries, GTZ, Universities and NGOs (such as FUNDAPAZ), has shown
that improvement is possible, but only when farmers' interest and needs are
properly understood and their limitations adequately considered.



- 77 -                         Annex D
Objective
8.           The objective of the small farmer component, therefore, would
be: (a) to alleviate rural poverty; and (b) to protect native forest areas, by
addressing the two main limiting factors faced by small farners as they
attempt to improve their farming practices: (i) availability of technical
assistance and information on improved, sustainable technologies; and (ii)
access to the funds required to implement the technical packages. The
strategy would be to expand successful small farmer-oriented programs which
are either demand-driven or that respond to some of the needs of
minifundistas. Efforts would be directed at: (a) stabilizing shifting
cultivation and reducing overgrazing in fragile forest areas of particular
significance to the conservation of natural resources; (b) intensifying and
diversifying farming activities in areas where crop production and
transhumant pastoralism are threatening fragile areas; (c) developing
improved technologies adapted to small farming systems; and (d) increasing
small farmer's and especially their children's sensitivity toward environment
values, environmental degradation, and the need to conserve natural
resources where possible. To be successful, activities would have to expand
and sustain the participation of local people and be executed through farmer's
groups or associations, so as to facilitate the adoption of technological
alternatives that could not be easily integrated by individual farmers.
Farmer's groups or associations--formed spontaneously or promoted by
Fundaci6n INTA, by other public and private institutions or by NGOs--
would be the main instruments for the implementation of this component.
B. Target Areas and Populations
9.           Criteria developed by SAGyP for prioritizing broad ecological
zones for inclusion include: (i) anthropic pressure on natural forests,
especially those in or near national and provincial protected areas; (ii)
availability of improved technologies; (iii) forestry potential; (iv)
diversification potential; (v) proportion of provincial small farmers, shifting
cultivators and livestock producers to national total; and (vi) level of small
farmers' income. Other criteria used for determining priority areas included:
farmers' interest, political commitment at provincial/departmental level, and
degree of farmer organization. As outlined in Table D.2 below, the priority
areas are located in the Provinces of Misiones, Salta, Chaco and Neuquen.
The target population has been estimated at some 3,000 small farmers who
legally occupy their land.



- 78 -                           Annex D
Table D.2. Target Areas for Small Farmer Component
Number of
Priority Areas    Farmers       Major Protected Areas in Zone
Iguazu National Park, Uruga-i
Sierra Central,                 Provincial Park and Provincial
Misiones Province    1,250       Protected Areas
Yungas/Trans.
Parque Chaquenno,
Salta               500          Baritu and Calilegua Ntl Parks
Chaco Humedo,                   Chaco National Park and P. de La
Chaco Province      500         Plaza Multiple Use Reserve
Lagunas de Equlauquen Prov. Reserve
Dept. Minas,                    and Canada Molina Ntl Prov.
Neuquen Province    350          Monument
Chaco Seco                       Critical area for in-situ Biodiversity
Salta               400          Conservation (Quebracho)
C. Component Activities, Costs and Implementation
Activities
10.           The main activities would include (i) applied adaptive research;
(ii) extension/technology transfer; and (iii) public environmental/forestry
education campaigns. To facilitate uptake of new technology, an
agroforestry fund would be established.
11.           Applied/Adaptive Research (US$0.7 million): The component
would support applied research targeted towards developing conservation-
oriented technologies and sustainable productive systems used by small
farmers in the project areas. Key research topics would include:
agrosylvopastoral systems, including understory pasture development,
introduction of new genotypes, and the development/adaptation of techniques
to improve soil fertility and moisture holding capacity in areas where the
small farmer component is being implemented. This component would
provide funding for the recruitment of international and national sustainable
agriculture specialists as consultants to assist INTA and other participating
research institutions in the adaptation and development of specific
technologies, including those successfully implemented in analogous areas of
the world. This applied/adaptive research activity would also support staff
training, study tours, publications and some field equipment.
12.           Extension/Technology Transfer (US$3.2 million): The
component would build upon existing extension programs and methodologies
which have proven their potential. This would be done by: (i) providing



- 79 -                        Annex D
extension services for improved farming/management systems; (ii) promoting
farmers' organizations; (iii) providing technical assistance for land-use
planning; and (iv) testing ways to diversify agricultural production.
13.          Environmental Education Campaigns (US$0.7 million):
Forestry and environmental education campaigns, directed towards small
farmers and their families, school teachers and the local population as a
whole, would be supported to raise public awareness of environmental issues.
Activities would be developed by the extensionist in charge of the
extension/technology transfer sub-component, thereby ensuring uniformity in
information delivered to the target population. Activities to be supported
include school and community tree planting, production of environmental
education videos, and training of primary school teachers.
14.          Agroforestry Fund (US$2.3 million): To overcome one of the
main obstacles faced by most small farmers in adopting new technology, i.e.,
access to capital, the project would establish an agroforestry fund with the
twin objectives of: (i) increasing farmers' incomes; (ii) encouraging farmers
to protect environmental values.
15.          The proposed agroforestry fund would provide grants to about
3,000 small farmers. Activities to be financed by the fund would be of two
main types: (i) those which are production-oriented; and (ii) those which do
not produce direct and/or immediate benefit to the small farmers, but which
have environmental benefits. Activities to be financed would be defined by
extensionists working with participating farners in preparing projects to be
submitted to the agroforestry fund. They could be group or individual
farmer activities. In no instance would the cumulative amount of grants paid
to any individual small farmer family over the five year life of the
component, either as an individual farm family or as a member of a group of
families, exceed a maximum of Arg$1,000.
16.          Management at Local Level (US$0.3 million): The estimated
fees which would be paid to local NGOs or governmental agencies to provide
extension/technology transfer services and environmental education to
beneficiaries, and monitor the use of the agroforestry fund have been
estimated at about US$328,000, equivalent to about 5 percent of the total cost
of these activities.
Cost Estimates
17.          Total base cost of the component is estimated at US$7.2
million. This would include:
(a)   applied/adaptive research fund (US$0.7 million): funding has
been included for applied/adaptive research to address practical
problems as they arise in the areas where the component would
be implemented, and includes;



- 80 -                         Annex D
(i)  3 p/m internationally recruited consultants to help
design/adapt an appropriate research program, costing
US$35,000;
(ii)  3 p/m of nationally recruited high-level consultants to
help design/adapt an appropriate research program,
costing US$20,000;
(iii)  staff training and study tours, costing US$45,000; and
(iv)  funds to carry out research, including purchase of
supplies and publication of results, ITS$600,000; and
(b)   extension/technology transfer (US$3.2 million): costs include
funding for:
(i)  vehicles (12 4WD and 15 motorcycles), costing
US$540,000;
(ii)  equipment (field and communication), costing
US$100,000;
(iii)  125 p/m of locally recruited subject matter specialists to
train extensionists, costing US$263,000;
(iv)  890 p/m of locally recruited consultants to implement
extension activities, costing US$1,424,000;
(v)  100 p/m of audio visual specialists to prepare material
for and help implement the extension/technology
transfer program, costing US$160,000;
(vi)  operating and maintenance of extension programs,
including vehicles, costing US$435,000);
(vii)  staff training and study tours, costing US$100,000; and
(viii)  supplies and materials, costing US$150,000; and
(c)    Environmental Education Campaigns (US$0.7 million): costs
include funding for:
(i)  equipment (field and communication), costing
US$100,000;
(ii)  45 p/m of locally recruited subject matter specialists to
coordinate the environmental education program,
costing US$95,000;



- 81 -                        Annex D
(iii)  125 p/m of audio visual specialists to prepare material
for and help implement the environmental education
program, costing US$200,000;
(iv)  operating costs of environmental education/training
program (US$185,000); and
(v)  supplies and materials, costing US$120,000;
(d)   agroforestry fund (US$2.3 million); and
(e)   Management at Local Level (Baseline Costs US$0.3 million):
The estimated management fees have been estimated at about
US$328,000, equivalent to about 5 percent of the total cost of
these activities.



- 82 -                        Annex D
Table D.3. Baseline Costs of Small Farmer Component
Input Description                  US$'000
Vehicles and equipment                                740
3 p/m internationally recruited consultants at
US$10,000 per month, which includes all expenses
except domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos
Aires                                                  30
3 p/m locally recruited high-level consultants at
US$5,000 per month, which includes all expenses
except domestic travel and subsistence outside place of
residence.                                             15
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires
for internationally recruited consultants, and outside
place of residence for locally recruited consultants,
calculated at the rate of about US$1,500 per consultant
month                                                  10
125 p/m of locally recruited subject matter specialists
to train extensionists, and 45 p/m of locally recruited
subject matter specialists to coordinate the
environmental education program, at US$2,000 per
month, which includes all expenses except domestic
travel and subsistence outside place of residence     340
890 p/m of locally recruited extension specialists, and
225 audio visual specialists, at US$1,500 per month,
which includes all costs except subsistence outside
place of residence                                   1,673
Subsistence outside place of residence for locally
recruited subject matter specialists, extensionists, and
audio visual specialists, calculated at the rate of about
US$100 per consultant month                           129
Training and study tours                              145
Operating costs, maintenance, supplies and materials  890
Funds to carry out research, including purchase of
supplies and publication of results                   600
Agroforestry grants to each of the approximately 3,000
participating farmers, resulting in a grant per family of
about US$767                                        2,300
Management fee                                       328
Total component cost                                7,200



- 83 -                       Annex D
Implementation
18.         In implementing the Small Farmer Component, the Sub-
Secretary would use: (a) the assistance of INTA to carry out applied research
on small farmer issues; and (b) the institution with the best proven record in
each of the approximately five areas selected (be it an NGO or local
government) to monitor the use of the agroforestry fund, to provide technical
assistance and other support to poor farmers, and to carry out the
environmental education campaigns. Each collaborating agency would
conduct a baseline study of the participating farmers in order to allow for the
monitoring of project impact.



Annex E
- 84 -
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$'000)
Project Components by Year
Project Components                        Project Year           Total
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Institutional Strengthening     455    580    685    766    544   3030
Research & Information         1265   2270   3175   3770   2723  13203
Small Farmer                    585   1320   1820   2035   1440   7200
---------------------------------------------------------_-
Total BASELINE (Dec.31,1994)   2305   4170   5680   6571   4707  23433
Physical Contingencies        57.5    85  106.5  88.25   48.9   386
Price Contingencies.            84    277    540    802    706   2409
Total PROJECT COSTS            2447   4532   6326   7461   5462  26228
Foreign Exchange               917   1462   2089   2346   1825   8639
Total foreign exchange as % of total project cost                  33%



Annex E
- 85 -
ARGEiNTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$'000)
Institutional Strengthening Component--Total Costs by Year
Component Element                          Project Year            Totali
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Goods
Vehicles                        40      20     20      0       0      80
Equipment                       25      25     25     25       0    100
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign                        35      50     65     86      40    276
Local                          55      80     80    115      60    390
Training
Foreign                        15      15     30     30      30    120
Local                           s      10     15     20      10     60
Project Management
Local                         200    200    200    200    200   1000
Other
PIU & other Operations          50    110    150    160    174    644
Workshops                       10      20     40      50      0    120
Training programs               20      50     60      80     30    240
-----------------------------------------------------------
Total BASEUNE COSTS             455    580    685    766    544   3030
Physical Contigencies           6.5    4.5    4.5    2.5       0      18
Price Contigencies               17     39     65      93     82    297
--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Total COMPONENT COST            479    623    755    862    626   3345
== = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =



Annex E
- 86 -
ARGENTI NA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$'000)
Institutional Strengthening Component--Local Costs by Year
Component Element                           Project Year             Total Percent
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000           Local
Goods
Vehicles                         20      10      10      0       0      40    0.5
Equipment                        13      13      13     13       0      50    0.5
Consultancies
Studies
Intemational                    12      18     23      30      14      97   0.35
National                        47      68     68      98      51    332   0.85
Training
Intemrational                    5       5      11     11      11      42   0.35
National                         4       9      13     17       9      51   0.85
Project Management
National                       170    170    170    170    170    850   0.85
Other
PIU & other Operations           40      88    120    128    139    515    0.8
Workshops                         8      16      32     40       0      96    0.8
Training programs                 10     25      30     40      15    120    0.5
Total LOCAL BASEUNE COSTS        329    421    489    546    408   2192
Physical Contingencies           3.3    2.3    2.3    1.3    0.0    9.0
Subtotal Base + Physical         332    423    491    547    408   2201
CPI     (1995-2.9%)               3.0    2.7    2.5    2.5    2.5
Inflation Index                 104.4  107.4  110.3    113   115.9
Price Contingencies            14.62   31.30   50.55   71.12   64.90  232.50
Total LOCAL COMPONENT COSTS    347    454    541    618    473   2434



Annex E
- 87 -
ARGENTI NA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$'000)
Institutional Strengthening Component--Foreign Exchange by Year
Component Element                           Project Year           Total   Percent
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000          Foreign
Goods
Vehicles                         20      10      10      0       0     40    0.5
Equipment                       12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5        0     50    0.5
Consultancies
Studies
Intemational                  22.75    32.5  42.25    55.9     26   179.4  0.65
National                       8.25     12     12   17.25       9    58.5  0.15
Training
International                  9.75    9.75    19.5   19.5   19.5     78   0.65
National                       0.75    1.5   2.25       3     1.5      9   0.15
Project Management
National                        30      30     30      30      30    150   0.15
Other
PIU & other Operations           10      22     30      32    34.8  128.8   0.2
Workshops                         2       4       8     10       0      24    0.2
Training programs                10      25      30     40      15    120    0.5
Subtotal Baseline Foreign        126  159.25   196.5  220.15   135.8  837.7
------------------------------------
Physical Contingencies           3.25    2.25    2.25    1.25     0       9
Subtotal Base + Physical       129.25   161.5  198.75   221.4  135.8  846.7
------------------------------------
MUV      (1995-1.5%)              1.8    2.6    2.5    2.5    2.5
Inflation Index                 102.2  104.7  107.4    110   112.8
Price Contingencies             2.84    7.59   14.71   22.14   17.38   64.66
------------------------------------
Total FOREIGN EXCHANGE           132    169    213    244    153    911
== = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =



Annex E
- 88 -
ARGENTI NA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$'000)
Research & Information Component- -Total Costs by Year
Component Element                          Project Year             Total
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Works
Rehab labs                        0    100    100      75       0    275
Goods
Vehicles                         70    200    250    165       35    720
Equipment                        60    200    300    250       51    861
Satellite Images                230                           230    460
Mat & Supplies                   30     40      50     60      38    218
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign                         200    350    410    500    450   1910
Local                           100    180    320    410    352   1362
Technical Asst.
Foreign                          45     90    200   .225    140    700
Local                           100    190    350    475    461   1576
Training
Foreign                          45     90    135    135    155    560
Local                            25      25     40      40     30    160
Other
Operations                      110    185    270    300    244   1109
Workshops                         0      70      0      60      0    130
Training programs                50    150    300    325    237   1062
Research fund                   200    400    450    750    300   2100
-----------------------------------------------------------
Total BASELINE COSTS            1265   2270   3175   3770   2723  13203
Physical Contigencies            39      59     75   58.75    35.4    267
Price Contigencies               44    148    297    455    403   1347
Total--COMPONENT     ---COST--1348--2477-3547--4284--3161--14817
Total COMPONENT COST            1348   2477   3547   4284   3161  14817



Annex E
- 89 -
ARGENTI NA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$'000)
Research & Information Component- -Local Costs by Year
Component Element                          Project Year          Total   Percent
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000          Local
Works
Rehab labs                       0      80     80      60      0    220   0.8
Goods
Vehicles                        35    100    125   82.5   17.5    360   0.5
Equipment                       30    100    150    125   25.5  430.5   0.5
Satellite Images                46       0      0       0     46      92   0.2
Mat & Supplies                  15      20     25      30      19    109   0.5
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign                         70   122.5  143.5    175   157.5  668.5  0.35
Local                           85    153    272   348.5  299.2  1157.7  0.85
Technical Asst.
Foreign                       15.75   31.5     70   78.75     49    245  0.35
Local                           85   161.5  297.5  403.75  391.85  1339.6  0.85
Training
Foreign                       15.75   31.5  47.25   47.25   54.25    196  0.35
Local                         21.25   21.25    34      34    25.5    136  0.85
Other
Operations                       88    148    216    240   195.2  887.2   0.8
Workshops                         0     56       0     48       0    104   0.8
Training programs                15     45      90    97.5   71.1  318.6   0.3
Research fund                   160    320    360    600    240   1680   0.8
-----------------------------------------------------------
Total LOCAL BASEUNE COSTS     681.75  1390.2  1910.2  2370.2  1591.6  7944.1
Physical Contingencies         12.6    34       42   32.75    10.8  132.15
Subtotal Base + Physical      694.35  1424.2  1952.2   2403  1602.4  8076.2
CPI    (1995-2.9%)                 3     2.7    2.5    2.5    2.5
------------------------------------
Inflation Index                104.4  107.4  110.3    113   115.9
Price Contingencies           30.55  105.39  201.08  312.39  254.78  904.20
Total LOCAL COSTS                725   1530   2153   2715   1857   8980
-------------------------------



Annex E
- 90 -
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$'000)
Research & Information Component- -Foreign Exchange Costs by Year
Component Element                          Project Year          Total   Percent
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000         Foreign
Works
Rehab labs                       0      20     20      15      0     55   0.2
Goods
Vehicles                        35    100    125   82.5   17.5    360   0.5
Equipment                       30    100    150    125   25.5  430.5   0.5
Satellite Images               184       0      0       0    184    368   0.8
Mat & Supplies                  15      20     25     30      19    109   0.5
Consultancies
Studies
Foreign                        130  227.5  266.5   325   292.5  1241.5  0.65
Local                           15      27     48   61.5   52.8  204.3  0.15
Technical Asst.
Foreign                       29.25   58.5    130  146.25     91    455  0.65
Local                           15   28.5   52.5  71.25   69.15   236.4  0.15
Training
Foreign                       29.25   58.5  87.75   87.75  100.75    364  0.65
Local                          3.75   3.75      6       6     4.5     24  0.15
Other
Operations                      22      37     54      60   48.8  221.8   0.2
Workshops                        0      14      0      12      0      26   0.2
Training programs               35    105    210  227.5  165.9  743.4   0.7
Research fund                   40      80     90    150      60    420   0.2
-----------------------------------------------------------
Total BASE FOREIGN EXCHANGE   583.25  879.75  1264.7  1399.7  1131.4  5258.9
Physical Contingencies         26.4    25      33      26   24.6    135
------------------------------------
Subtotal Base + Physical        610    905   1298   1426   1156   5394
MUV      (1995-1.5%)             1.8    2.6    2.5    2.5    2.5
Inflation Index                102.2  104.7  107.4   110   112.8
Price Contingencies           13.41   42.52   96.03  142.58  147.97  442.51
Total FOREIGN EXCHANGE          623    947   1394   1568   1304   5836
- -----------------------------



Annex E
- 91 -
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$'000)
Small Farmer Component--Total Costs by Year
Component Element                          Project Year           Total
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Goods
Vehicles                        100    140    160    120       20    540
Equipment                        10     25      50     75      40    200
Mat & Supplies                   10     50      60     75      75    270
Consultancies
Technical Asst.
Foreign                          5      5      10      5       5     30
Local                          120    370    530    595    413   2028
Other
Operations                       80    155    270    325    257   1087
Training programs                10     25      40     40      30    145
Research Grant                   50    100    150    150    150    600
Agroforestry Fund               200    450    550    650    450   2300
_________________________________________________________
Total BASELINE COSTS             585   1320   1820   2035   1440   7200
Physical Contigencies            12   21.5    27       27    13.5    101
Price Contigencies               23     90    177    253    221    765
Total COMPONENT COST             620   1432   2024   2315   1675   8066



Annex E
- 92 -
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$'000)
Small Farmer Component--Local Costs by Year
Component Element                          Project Year          Total   Percent
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000         Local
Goods
Vehicles                        50      70     80      60     10    270   0.5
Equipment                        5    12.5    25    37.5    20    100   0.5
Mat & Supplies                   5      25     30   37.5   37.5    135   0.5
Con sultan cies
Technical Asst.
Foreign                       1.75   1.75    3.5   1.75    1.75    10.5  0.35
Local                         102  314.5  450.5  505.75  351.05  1723.8  0.85
Other
Operations                      64    124    216    260   205.6  869.6   0.8
Training programs                5    12.5    20       20     15   72.5   0.5
Research Grants                 40      80    120    120    120    480   0.8
Agroforestry Fund               160    360    440    520    360   1840   0.8
-----------------------------------------------------------
Total BASE LOCAL COSTS        432.75  1000.2   1385  1562.5  1120.9  5501.4
Physical Contingencies           6   10.75    13.5   13.5   6.75    50.5
Subtotal Base + Physical      438.75   1011  1398.5   1576  1127.6  5551.9
CPI    (1995-2.9%)                3    2.7    2.5    2.5    2.5
Inflation Index                104.4  107.4  110.3    113   115.9
Price Contingencies           19.31   74.81  144.05  204.88  179.30  622.34
Total LOCAL COSTS               458   1086   1543   1781   1307   6174



Annex E
- 93 -
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$'000)
Small Farmer Component- -Foreign Exchange Costs by Year
Component Element                          Project Year           Total   Percent
|                               1996   1997   1998   1999   2000          Foreign
Goods
Vehicles                         50     70      80      60     10    270   0.5
Equipment                         5    12.5    25    37.5      20    100   0.5
Mat & Supplies                    5     25      30    37.5   37.5    135   0.5
Consultancies
Technical Asst.
Foreign                       3.25    3.25    6.5   3.25    3.25    19.5  0.65
Local                           18   55.5   79.5  89.25   61.95   304.2  0.15
Other
Operations                       16     31      54      65    51.4  217.4   0.2
Training programs                 5    12.5     20      20     15    72.5   0.5
Research Grants                  10     20      30      30     30    120   0.2
Agroforestry Fund                40      90    110    130      90    460    0.2
Total BASE FOREIGN EXCHANGE   152.25  319.75    435   472.5  319.1  1698.6
Physical Contingencies            6   10.75    13.5   13.5   6.75    50.5
Subtotal Base + Physical       158.25   330.5  448.5    486  325.85  1749.1
MUV      (1995-1.5%)              1.8    2.6    2.5    2.5    2.5
Inflation Index                 102.2  104.7  107.4    110   112.8
Price Contingencies            3.48   15.53   33.19   48.60   41.71  142.51
Total FOREIGN EXCHANGE           162    346    482    535    368   1892



Annex E
- 94 -
ARGENTI NA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$ 000)
Costs Borne Directly by Government
Counterpart Funding                               Incremental
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000           Annual Recurrent
SAGyP
Institutional & PIU                 95       175       245       289        211                   0
Inventory&Database MGNT             76       142       198       233        171                 100
Marketing & Grading                 16        29        40        48         35                 120
Improved Seedlings                  21        40        55        65        48                    0
Patagonia Study                     29        54        75        89         65                   0
Small Farmer Extension             380       704       983      1160        849                   0
INASE
Certification                        14        25        35        42        30                 160
INTA
Plantation Res&Ext                 164       304       425       501        367                 530
Tree Breeding                       116       216      301        355       260                 120
Small Fmr Research                  42        78        109       129        94                  45
Total Counterpart Funding           954      1767      2467      2910      2130
Incremental Recurrent Costs                                                                   1075



- 95 -                        Annex F
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Allocation of the Loan Proceeds
Allocation       Percent of
(Expressed      Expenditures
in US$           to be
Category                   Equivalent)       Financed
(1) Institutional Development Component
(a)  Consultant Servicesa'              1,846,000            100
(b) Vehicles, equipment, training
programs, workshops                  318,000             57
(2) Inventory
(a)  Consultant Sevicesa'               1,970,000            100
(b) Vehicles, equipment, remote
images, workshops                   510,000              57
(3) Commercial Forestry Research
(a)  Consultant Servicesa'              3,608,000            100
(b) Vehicles, equipment, training
programs, research activities      2,612,000             57
(4) Patagonia Study
(a)  Consultant Servicesa'               690,000             100
(b)  Workshop                              34,000             57
(5) Small Farmer Component
(a)  Consultant Servicesa'             2,058,000             100
(b)  Vehicles, equipment, training
programs, research activities        889,000             57
(6) Unallocated                             1,465,000
Total                             16,000,000
a/ Consultant services include only fees and international travel costs, they do not include
domestic travel and subsistence costs, which would be financed by the govermnent.



- 96 -                      Annex G
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Loan Disbursements1'
FY              Disbursement           Cumulative
(US$ million)         (US$ million)
1996                  0.7 2                  0.7
1997                  0.5                    1.2
1998                  2.4                    3.6
1999                  2.5                    6.1
2000                  4.5                   10.6
2001                  3.8                   14.4
2002                  1.0                   15.4
2003                  0.6                   16.0
Following the standard disbursement profile for projects in Argentina.
2/    Deposit into the Special Account.



- 97 -                                 Annex H
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Monitorable Actions
Table 1. Performance Indicators
Y E A R
COMPONENT                                                              l_ll
ACTIVITY                                                   I  1  2       3      4      5
PERFORM1ANCE INDICATOR                                                          l
(Percent or Number Completed)
1. Institutional StrenLitheninp Component
1.1 Policies, Laws and Regulations for Plantations
1.1.1  Studies of federal policies,laws & regulations completed:
obstacles prioritized; and revised federal legislation and
regulations drafted (%)                                  25    60    100
1.1.2  Workshop with federal legislators and government officials
to discuss draft legislation completed (No.)                    1      2
1.1.3  Studies of provincial policies, laws and regulations
completed; workshops for consultation with provinces
initiated; and revised provincial legislation and regulations  25    60    100
drafted (%)
1.1.4  Workshops with provincial legislators and governments to
discuss importance and implications of revised draft
legislation and regulations (No.)                               1      2
1.1.5  Study tour participants (No.)                                  20
1.1.6  Plan and agenda for approval and implementation of new
policies prepared (%)                                                 25    50    100
1.2  Interinstitutional and Internal Oryanization, Personnel Policies,
and Skill UpgradinR
1.2.1  Proposals for updating SAGyP's DPF and INASE
organizational structure completed (%)                   25    50    75    100
1.2.2  Mid and High-level management courses (No.)                     1      2
1.2.3  High level managers trained (No.)                               2      3      3
1.2.4  Study completed on needed changes of SAGyP's DPF and
INASE personnel policies and reward system (No.)                       1
1.2.5  Professionals technical staff trained (No.)                    50    50    50    50
1.2.6  Mid & low level technical staff trained (No.)                  50    75    75    50
1.3  Support for Proiect Implementation
1.3.1  PIU organized and staffed (%)                           100
1.3.2  PIU Staff contracted (No. p/m)                          40    40    40    40    40
1.3.3  PIU vehicles purchased (No.)                             1      1
1.3.4  PIU equipment procured (%)                               50    75    100
1.3.5  Mid-Term Review (No.)                                                  1
1.3.6  Implementation completion report (No.)



- 98 -                               Annex H
l                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y E A R
COMPONENT                                                                _
ACTIVITY                                                  1     2      3     4      5
PERFORMANCE INDICATOR                           (Percent or Number Completed)
2. Research and Information Generation and Dissemination
Component
2.1 Inventory and Database
2.1.1  Purchase of Satellite Images (No.)                     65
2.1.2  Contract Phase I lead firm and 1: 100,000 map
produced (%)                                           25   100
2.1.3  Contract Phase II Lead Firm (%)                              100
2.1.4  Workshop on Inventory methodology completed and
inventory manual with agreed methodology produced (No.)       I
2.1.6  National and Provincial participants trained                  25    50    100
2.1.7  Initial inventory completed (%)                               25    50    100
2.1.8  Map and report produced for follow-up monitoring (No.)                            I
2.1.9  Procurement of vehicles and equipment (%)              50   100
2.1.10 Database Management Unit formed (No.)                   1
2.1.11 Database lead firm contracted and database management
system designed/installed (%)                          25    50    100
2.1.12 DMU staff trained in system (No.)                                    3
2.1.13 Provincial training workshops (%)                                   50    75   100
2.2 Marketine and Grading System
2.2.1  Selection of lead firm and marketing and baseline studies
completed (%)                                          50    75    100
2.2.2  Grading system developed and implementation plan for its
promotion developed(%)                                       100
2.2.3  On-job training and training workshops conducted (No.)               2      2     2
2.2.4  Overseas training tours completed (No.)                              2      2
2.3 Tree Selection and Breedine
2.3.1  Conifer genetic material reviewed, baseline study
completed, and breeding program designed (%)           50   100
2.3.2  Broadleaf genetic material reviewed, baseline study
completed, and breeding program developed (%)          50   100
2.3.3  Conifer and broadleaf selection trials installed and
monitored (No.)                                               2
2.3.4  Laboratory construction or rehabilitation completed (No.)            I 1
2.3.5  Vehicles and equipment procured (%)                           50    100
2.3.6  Conifer and eucalypti planting populations developed and
progeny trials installed and monitored (No.)                         I      1
2.3.7  Training in clonal & other breeding procedures (No.)                 2      2
2.4 Seedline Improvement & Marketine
2.4.1  Lead firms contracted and seed demand and baseline survey
completed (%)                                          25   100
2.4.2  Vehicles and equipment procured (%)                    25    50    75   100
2.4.3  Work program for certifying seed and nursery stock
designed (No.)                                                I
2.4.4  Demonstration nurseries established (No.)                    I1      2      I
2.5 Plantation Management Research & Extension
2.5.1  Research trials established and monitored (%)                 25    50    75   100
2.5.2  Subject matter specialists hired and trained (No.)      2     5      3
2.5.3  Forest management training completed (%)                      25    50    75   100
2.5.4  Vehicles procured (%)                                  20    70    100



- 99 -                                 Annex H
|   ACTIVITY                                              ~~~~~~~~Y E A R
COMPONENT
ACTIVITY                                                   I1   2         3  14        5
PERFORMANCE INDICATOR                             (Percent or Number Completed)
2.6 Patagonia Regional
2.6.1  Lead firm contracted and studies completed (%)           25    50    75    90    100
2.6.2  Workshop completed (No.)                                                      1
3. Small Farmer Component
3.1 Baseline study completed (No.)                               1
3.2 Research consultant hired and research program designed (%)  50    100
3.3 Research trials established and monitored (%)                     25    50    75    100
3.4 Vehicles and equipment procured (%)                         25    50    75    100
3.5 Staff training completed (%)                                       25    50    75    100
3.6 Extension services provided (%)                                    25    50    75    100
3.7 Teachers trained and environmental education campaign
completed (%)                                                       25     50    75    100



- 100 -                                Annex H
Table 2. Impact Indicators
Target
Date for
Impact
COMPONENT OBJECTIVE                Initiation           IMPACT INDICATOR
Institutional Strenethenine             12/31/97    1. 60% of senior managers and key
decision makers aware of, and interested
To strengthen institutions for                      in, reformed legal and regulatory
improved sectoral performance                       framework
12/31/97    2. 60% of sectoral managers sharing
information and coordinating work
programs within SAGyP and with other
government agencies and the private
sector.
12/31/97    3. More open management system, with
greater participation of private sector in
decision-making.
12/31/97    4.  Increased awareness by senior managers
of appropriate role of the state.
12/31/97    5. A modernized administrative machinery
capable of attracting and retaining
qualified core specialists.
12/31/95    6. An established unit capable of
implementing procurement in an efficient
way, using internationally acceptable
competitive procedures.
Research and Information Generation and   12/31/97    1. Increased use of maps and database for
Dissemination Component                                planning purposes by private and public
sector.
To generate and disseminate         12/31/97    2.  Increased number of firms using wood
information which would enable all                 grading system.
actors, both public and private, to  7/31/98   3. Sawnwood quality improved so that 15%
contribute to narrowing the gap                     more of wood products exported.
between the actual and potential    12/31/97    4. Number of Argentine researchers
levels of output for forest plantations            practicing state-of-the-art breeding
and timber processing industries                   procedures increases to 5.
12/31/98    5. Seedlings certified in 50% of nurseries
12/31/98    6. 50% of nursery owners using improved
genetic material and producing improved
quality seedlings.
12/31/98    7. Of new area planted in trees, 60% is
with improved seedlings.
12/31/98    8. Preliminary work on forest management
technical packages completed and initial
To generate the information base                   results being transferred to extension
needed to develop an appropriate                   agents.
role for the state to help prevent soil   7/31/99  9.  Technical packages for small farmers
erosion and destruction of natural                 developed and disseminated.
habitats in Patagonia.              12/31/98    10. On areas planted with improved stock
and using improved management
packages, yield increases of 20%
observed.
12/31/98    11. Better understanding by senior public
sector managers of causes of
desertification and options available for
responding.



- 101-                                  Annex H
Target
Date for
Impact
COMPONENT OBJECTIVE                 Initiation            IMPACT INDICATOR
Small Farmer Component                   7/31/96     1.  Farmer associations formed and
planning/working with the project in
To alleviate poverty and protect                     each targeted area.
native forests areas by encouraging  12/31/96    2.  About 3,000 farmers implementing
and training carefully selected                      sustainable management practices by
pockets of small farmers to                          project end.
undertake sustainable land-use      7/31/99      3.  50% of target area farmers with
management                                           improved incomes from diversified
activities by project end.
7/31/96     4.  70% of children in target areas more
aware of environmental issues by project
end.
7/31/96     5.  80% of area teachers having incorporated
environmental awareness training into
regular programs by the project's end.
7/31/99     6.  Substantial reduction in encroachments
into neighboring forests as indicated by
area newly deforested and number of
l _____________________________________  ___________      illegal  hunting     incidents.



-102-                                 Annexl
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approx   Activity                           Skill Requirements          Staff
Dates                                                                   Input
l_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (S W )
12/1995   Project Launch                   -Task Manager               5
Review Annual Work Plan (POA)
PIU establishment                -Forestry Specialist
Review Implementation manual      -Economist
Initiate policy/legal studies
3/1996    Review Procurement procedures     -Task Manager              5
Review studies/Proposals         -Institutions/legal
-Policies/laws                  -Forestry/Inventory
-Institution Strengthening      Specialist
-Inventory
-Marketing/Grading
-Breeding
-Patagonia
-Discuss Progress Report
8/1996    Technical assessment of Research    -Task Manager            5
Progress of Breeding program      -Breeding/seedling
Field visits                      Specialist
Review proposed certification plan
Review Small Farmer Program
Review Annual Work Plan (POAs)
Procurement review
Review POA
2/1997    Discuss Progress Report           -Task Manager               3
Review draft laws and proposals   -Legal/institutions specialist
Review Database System
Procurement review
8/1997    Review Annual Work Plan (POA)    -Task Manager               3
Review inventory methodology      -Forestry Specialists
Procurement review/record keeping                                   l
2/1998    Review TOR for Mid-Term           -Task Manager              3
Review                           -Forestry/Training
Review Training Program           Specialist
Review INASE certification
program
Review inventory manual
Review Environmental Education
Review Small farmer extension
Visit demo nurseries
Review Procurement
Discuss Progress Report



- 103 -                                 Annex I
Approx    Activity                            Skill Requirements            Staff
Dates                                                                       Input
l_____________________________ ._______________________ (SW)
8/1998    Discuss Mid-Term Review and         -Task Manager                6
agree on adjustments in Project    -Agroforestry/sustainable
Review research programs           agr. Specialist
-small farmer
-silvicultural
-breeding
Field Visits
Review inventory map
Review Procurement
Review Annual Work Plan (POA)   __
2/1999    Review Small Farmer Extension       -Task Manager                 3
Review INTA Silvicultural          -Forestry/Extension
Extension                          Specialist
Attend Patagonia Workshop
Discuss Progress Report
8/1999    Review Inventory monitoring         -Task Manager                3
Review field research              -Forestry/Inventory
Review seedling program            Specialist
Procurement review
Review Annual Work Plan (POA)
Discuss Annual Review
2/2000    Discuss project evaluation/ICR      -Task Manager                3
Review Procurement                 -Forestry Specialist                 l
TOTAL SW                    39
Supervision Requirements by IBRD FY
(SWs)
IBRD FY                  1996      1997     1998        1999       2000       Total
Field                    10        8         6          9          6          39
Bank                      4        4         4          3          4          19
Total SW                 14        12        10         12         10         58



- 104 -                      Annex J
ARGENTINA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Produced by SAGyP. Buenos Aires
1.    Manual De Implementaci6n Del Proyecto. April 1995.
2.    Proyecto de Desarrollo Forestal (Version Preliminar), Diciembre de
1993.
- Capitulo 12: Inventario Forestal Continuo (pages 375-415).
- Capitulo 13: Capacitaci6n, Promoci6n, Investigaci6n, Extensi6n e
Informaci6n (pages 416-442).
3.    Programa Integral de Mejoramiento Genetico Forestal par la
Republica Argentina. INTA/Programa Forestal. Diciembre 1994.
4.    Operativa, Requisitos y Estructura Institucional y Organizativa de los
Fondos Locales de Conservaci6n. Carlos Sammarco, Noviembre de
1994.
5.    Principales Criterios para la Identificaci6n de Areas de Localizaci6n
(Componente Incentivos a Pequenios Productores). Noviembre 1994.
6.    Fortalecimiento Institucional. Proyecto Forest-Ar. Noviembre 1994.
Produced by FAO/CP. Rome
7.    Conservation Incentives to Small Farmers in Buffer Zones. Report
No: 133/94 CP-ARG. 17, November 1944. FAO Investment Centre.
8.    Prevenci6n de la Desertificaci6n en Patagonia. Report No: 133/94
CP-ARG. 17, November 1994. FAO Investment Center, Rome.
9.   Investigaci6n Forestal--Bosques Cultivados. Report No: 133/94 CP-
ARG. 17, November 1994. FAO Investment Center, Rome.
10.  Informaci6n y Estadisticas Forestales--Bosques Cultivados. Report
No: 133/94 CP-ARG. 17. November 1994. FAO Investment Center.
11.  Inventario Nacional de los Recursos Forestales y La Biodiversidad.
Annex 6. Report No: 133/94 CP--ARG17, November 1994. FAO
Investment Centre.



- 105 -                       Annex J
Produced by the World Bank
12.   ARGENTINA: Forestry Sector Review. Report No. 11833-AR, April
26, 1993. Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department IV.
13.   Market Studies and Grading Sawnwood, by Louis Carbonnier
(AGRNR). October 1994, Washington D.C.
14.   Argentina: Improved Planting Material - R&D, by Norman Jones
(AGRNR). November 1994, Washington D.C.






IBRD 26467
A.[                   PARAGUA                   BRAZIL
i   .rAM     sSUCLJMAN 
) cAr^FS   t  U C U M A N  /            h~~~~~/  3
' % sAr4TlAGoX~~~~~CH                            MISIONES
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
1.     '                     e      -ESTER    5A~            
U                                                              URUUAR
ul
_40o1  OTHER ECOSYSTEMS 0
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R G  ENT I N:.
Puna y Altoondino
/ -?  |  C<ff  f  z; .   .                _   ~~~Yungas
],.t'  I  \=CHL43J-Tt A "                          I    I Bosques Subant6rticos
*    Selva Paranoense
(    J  t    X  t;t.                 I    I ~~~~Chaco
' i   :.9Espinal y Parque Mesopotdmico
/ > ~~~~~~ . : ~~~Pampa
vJ  \'                                                      T I Monte
L-1.- IEstepa Patog6nica
Litoral Marino
National Capital
- 7 0^_Province Boundaries
FALKLAND ISLANDOS               International Boundaries
-S                                            (MAALVINAS)
50 
ri RAA DWTIP? COIC n/5, --~~'G"      The boundaries, colors.
t TI R snDe E7S RA        ;               denominations and  anty
I~~~F ~~oni this mop  do  not
0t  >    Oimply, on  the part of
The World Bank Group,
 100   200         any judgment an the legal
MILESI       IJ          status of any territory
KILOMETERS         I 200       or any  endorsement
400 or acceptance of such
0             ~~~~~boundaries.e
60                        70                       60                       50
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 1995I









.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l j    ,                                              .   I- _I  r
.I  I                        -                            j7     -          i X               . > 
3  . I  : . ~      ~            ~           ~            :       -     V -
i     l        %  t   ; :;-



