Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3948-AR
Loan Agreement
(Forestry Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 6, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 3948-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1996, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Borrower is committed to undertaking sustainable management and 
conservation-oriented forestry and, in furtherance of this commitment, is preparing a 
Native Forests and Protected Areas Project for the financing of which it intends to 
request assistance from the Bank; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purposes of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
(c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-paragraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)   "Annual Operating Plan" means any of the annual operating plans (planes 
operativos anuales) referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement and which plan 
has been approved by the Bank;
(b)   "Arg$" means the currency of the Borrower;
(c)   "Charter" means the Borrower's decree-law No. 21.680 of December 4, 1956 
creating INTA (as hereinafter defined), as amended;
(d)  "Collaboration Agreement" means an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be entered into between the Borrower, through the Secretara (as hereinafter defined), 
and a Selected Institution providing for the assistance of the latter in the 
implementation of Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the Project in a Selected Area;
(e)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing on January 1 and 
ending on December 31;
(f)  "INTA" means Instituto Nacional de Tecnologa Agropecuaria, the Borrower's 
National Institute for Agricultural Research;
(g) "INASE" means Instituto Nacional de Semillas, the Borrower's National Seed 
Institute;
(h)  "Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators of performance and impact of 
the Project as such indicators are set forth in the letter from the Borrower to the 
Bank of even date herewith;
(i)  "Project Implementation Unit" means the administrative unit referred to in 
Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement;
(j)  "Selected Area"  means any of the following areas: Sierra Central, in the 
Province of Misiones; Yungas\Transicin Parque Chaqueo, in the Province of Salta; Chaco 
Hmedo, in the Province of Chaco; Departamento Minas, in the Province of Neuquan; and 
the Chaco Seco, in the Province of Salta and any other area, in addition or 
substitution therefor, selected between the Borrower and the Bank, for purposes of the 
implementation of Part C of the Project;
(k)  "Selected Institution" means a public or private entity, acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Bank, which is willing to participate in the implementation of Parts 
C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the Project;
(l)  "Small Farmer" means an individual farm family which has: (A) legal title 
to the land it farms; (B) family income of less than two minimum rural salaries (as 
determined from time to time by the Borrower's Ministry of Labor and Social Security); 
(C) total assets, excluding land, of less than Arg$20,000; and (D) potential and 
motivation, in the opinion of the Selected Institution, to increase family income 
while also contributing to protecting adjoining native forests;
(m)  "Secretara" means the Borrower's Secretara de Agricultura, Pesca y 
Alimentacin, Secretariat of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food; and
Page  3
(n)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of sixteen million dollars 
($16,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)  For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
Page  4
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Secretara with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural, forestry and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower, through the Secretara, shall carry out Parts B.3, B.5 and C.1 of the 
Project with the assistance of INTA and carry out Part B.4 of the Project with the 
assistance of INASE, all on terms acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through the Secretara, shall:
(a)  prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
for the future operation of the Project;
(b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 (a) (iii) and 
(c) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(a)  not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year of Project execution, a 
progress report on the Project, of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably 
request, including, inter alia: (i) a section detailing progress in implementation of 
the Project based on, among other factors, the Monitoring Indicators; and (ii) 
specific and justified proposals for adjustments in Project implementation based on 
the then current results; and
(b)  not later than June 30 of each year of Project execution, for its review 
and approval, a proposed Annual Operating Plan providing for the activities, 
implementation schedule, physical targets and a proposed budget in respect of the 
Project during the upcoming year.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) (i) of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall: 
(a)  Not later than November 1998, hold, jointly with the Bank, a comprehensive 
Page  5
mid-term review of the execution of the Project, such review to be based on the 
reports referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on 
the following items: (i) progress in the reform process of the policy, legal and 
regulatory framework in connection with the plantations and timber processing 
industries; (ii) Parts B.6 and C of the Project; (iii) evaluation
of the progress in execution and in the achievement of the objectives of the Project 
based on, among other factors, the Monitoring Indicators; and (iv) any changes in 
Project implementation that may be necessary.
(b)  If as a result of the above mid-term review, progress in the execution of 
the Project or in the achievement of the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall promptly take or cause to be taken all such action, 
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be needed to achieve such objectives or to carry 
out efficiently the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain in the Secretara an appropriate 
organizational structure, functions and staff for the efficient implementation and 
supervision of the Project; (b) promptly inform the Bank of any change in the 
organizational structure or functions of the Secretara that may affect the execution 
of the Project; and (c) without limitation or restriction to paragraph (a) above, 
establish, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, an 
administrative unit within the Secretara with organizational structure, functions and 
staff acceptable to the Bank for the provision of administrative and technical 
services for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through the Secretara, shall: (a) require that 
beneficiaries of government grants for forest plantation establishments utilize 
seedlings, when available, which are certified by INASE in accordance with the 
methodology developed under Part B.4 of the Project; (b) collect and input the 
statistics under Part B.1 (b) of the Project in accordance with the least cost option 
of inputting into the Secretara's database raw statistics collected by other agencies, 
when available, and having the Secretara collect only the raw data required by its 
mandate and not already collected by some other agency; (c) ensure that a Small Farmer 
shall not receive during the execution of the Project more than $1,000 equivalent 
under the grant program to be carried out under Part C.4 of the Project; and (d) enter 
into a Collaboration Agreement for each Selected Area prior to the commencement of 
activities to be financed under the Loan for Part C of the Project in such Selected 
Area. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
Page  6
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)  the Project Implementation Unit has been established and has been staffed 
with a project coordinator, a technical manager, a procurement specialist and an 
accountant, all with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)  the Borrower, through the Secretara, and INTA have made arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of assistance by INTA to the Secretara for 
the execution of Parts B.3, B.5 and C.1 of the Project.
Section 5.02. The date September 4, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economa y
Obras y Servicios Pblicos,
Hiplito Yrigoyen 250, 5to. piso
13210 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMICA
121950 AR
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
By /s/ Antonio Guillermo Zoccali
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated         % of
                                 (Expressed in      Expenditures
                                     Dollar             to be
     Category                      Equivalent)        Financed
(1)  Part A of the Project
     (a)  Vehicles, equipment,       318,000        57%
          training, workshops
     (b)  Consultants' services    1,846,000        100%
(2)  Part B.1 of the Project
     (a)  Vehicles, equipment,
          remote images, workshops   510,000        57%
     (b)  Consultants' services    1,970,000        100%
(3)  Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and B.5
     of the Project
     (a)  Vehicles, equipment,
          training, research       2,612,000        57%
          activities
     (b)  Consultants' services    3,608,000        100%
(4)  Part B.6 of the Project
     (a)  Workshop                    34,000        57%
     (b)  Consultants' services      690,000        100%
(5)  Parts C.1, C.2 and C.3 of
     the Project
     (a)  Vehicles, equipment,
          training, research         889,000        57%
          activities
Page  8
     (b)  Consultants' services    2,058,000        100%
(6)  Unallocated                   1,465,000
     TOTAL                        16,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)  "consultants' services" means expenditures for consultant fees excluding 
expenditures for domestic travel and subsistence;
(b)  the term "remote images" means computer-compatible tapes of satellite 
images or aerial photography; 
(c)  the term "training" means study tours, training in a recognized educational 
institution, and short courses, and all of which have received the prior approval of 
the Bank, and excludes consultants services; and
(d)  the term "workshop" means any workshop under the Project which has received 
the prior approval of the Bank with respect to objectives, sponsorship, agenda, cost, 
location and list of participants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for consultants' services not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, in the case of consulting firms, and $30,000 equivalent in the 
case of individuals; and (c) training, workshops and research activities; all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the  Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) contributing to 
the efficient and sustainable growth of forest plantations and timber processing 
industries; (b) alleviating rural poverty; and (c) developing a strategy and consensus 
to deal with desertification and soil erosion problems in the Patagonia region.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
PART A:
Institutional Strengthening
 
A program to strengthen the institutional capacity in the areas of forest 
plantations and timber processing industries through: (a) the analysis and reform of 
the policy, legal and regulatory frameworks at the national and provincial levels; (b) 
a review of the inter- institutional relationships network, the design of improved 
organizational structures and management procedures and the training of high and 
mid-level management in improved management procedures; (c) a study of the constraints 
imposed by public sector personnel policies in the area of forest plantations and 
timber processing industries and proposals to improve such policies; (d) training of 
national and provincial staff in technical fields related to forest plantations and 
timber processing industries; and (e) the establishment and operation of the Project 
Implementation Unit.
PART B:
Research and Information Generation and Dissemination
 
1.
(a)  Carrying out of a plantation forest inventory and the development and 
adequate updating of a database on forest plantations; (b) collection, input and 
storage of such other statistics necessary for Secretara to fulfill its mandate in the 
commercial forestry sector; and (c) strengthening the capacity of Secretara to analyze 
data and disseminate information from the database.
2.
(a)  Studies to identify export markets for sawnwood in which Argentine mills 
may be competitive; (b) development of a grading system for sawnwood appropriate to 
the export markets identified in the above studies; and (c) a training program on 
grading systems for national and provincial public staff and private operators of 
timber processing industries.
Page  9
3.
A tree selection and breeding program for conifers and broadleaf species 
including studies on available genetic material of pines and eucalypti in Argentina 
and training for local specialists in cloning, espalier system and other breeding 
technologies.
4.
A seedling improvement and marketing program including the design and operation 
of a program for certifying seed and nursery stock, the design and implementation of a 
seedling and seed demand survey, technical assistance to nursery owners to identify 
sources and to procure improved seed, and technical assistance to nursery operators on 
improved nursery techniques.
5.
A program of: (a) research activities on plantation management, including 
research training for selected INTA staff involved in plantation establishment and 
management; (b) extension training by INTA of a core group of subject matter 
specialists in: (i) improved forest plantation management systems; (ii) awareness of 
and sensitivity to the environmental issues raised by forest plantations; (iii) laws 
and regulations applicable to forest plantation establishment and management; (iv) 
best environmental practices related to forest plantation establishment and 
management; and (c) preparation and dissemination of guidelines on forest plantation 
establishment
and management and best environmental practices applicable to forest plantation 
establishment and management.
6.
(a) A study to analyze the desertification process in the Patagonia region and 
to propose options to address such desertification; and (b) a workshop to disseminate 
and discuss the findings of the above study.
PART C:
Small Farmer Improvement
 
1.
A program of applied research for purposes of developing conservation-oriented 
technologies and sustainable productive systems to be utilized by Small Farmers in 
Selected Areas.
2.
A program to: (a) provide extension services to Small Farmers for improved 
farming systems; (b) promote the establishment of farmers' organizations; (c) provide 
technical assistance for land-use planning; and (d) test alternatives to diversify 
agricultural production of Small Farmers.
3.
A program to raise public awareness of environmental issues including school and 
community tree planting, production and utilization of environmental education videos 
and training of primary school teachers.
4.
A program of grants for Small Farmers to finance production-oriented activities 
with environmental benefits.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                               Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due
         (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 2001
     through September 15, 2010         
800,000
 
Page  10
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment            
Premium
 
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years               
0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but               
0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                 
0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not              
0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before               
1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
'Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section as 
applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Vehicles and nursery equipment which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from 
a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under 
Page  11
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines. All such vehicles and nursery equipment shall be grouped in packages 
estimated to cost not less than $100,000 equivalent.
2.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and $500,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Such procurements shall take place using 
standard documents approved by the Bank.
3.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $1,200,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Such procurements shall take place using standard 
documents approved by the Bank.
4.
Direct Contracting
 
Contracts for satellite images estimated to cost $600,000 or less in the 
aggregate may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods procured under the procedures referred 
to in Parts B.1 and B.4 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above. All 
consultant firms and individual consultants shall be employed using model letters of 
Page  12
invitation approved by the Bank and a standard form of contract issued by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $650,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
Page  13
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
