              Document of
            The World Bank




                                            Report No: 36885

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39480 SCL-3948A SCPD-3948S TF-22918)

                  ON A

                  LOAN

   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 16 MILLION

                 TO THE

         ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                 FOR A

   FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




               July 26, 2006

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                             Currency Unit = Peso
                                  Arg$2.90 = US$ 1
                                  US$ 0.34 = Arg$ 1

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APN           National Parks' Administration
BANK/FAO-CP   World Bank/Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations
FMS           Financial Management System
CNB           National Forestry Commission
DF            Directorate for Forestry
GoA           Government of Argentina
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFONA         Argentine National Forestry Institute
INASE         National Seed Institute
INDEC         National Institute of Statistics
INTA          National Institute for Agricultural Research
IRR           Internal Rate of Return
LAC           Latin America and the Caribbean
LIB           Limited International Bidding
LOI           Letters of Invitation
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MERCOSUR      Common Market Consisting of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay
MTySS         Ministry of Labor and Social Security
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NEF           Forestry Extension Node
NGO           Non-Government Organization
NPV           Net Present Value
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PAR           Project Audit Report
PIA           Applied Research Subproject
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
POA           Annual Work Plan
PPMPM         Program of Production of Improved Multiplication Materials
PSA           Social Program for Agricultural Development
SAGPyA        Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries
SBD           Standard Bidding Documents
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SRNyAH        Secretariat of Natural Resources and Human Environment
TA            Technical Assistance

TOR         Terms of Reference



                        Vice President:  Pamela Cox
                      Country Director   Axel van Trotsenburg
               Sector Manager/Director   Laura Tuck
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Robert R. Davis

                                        ARGENTINA
                                Forestry Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                       43

Project ID: P006040                                                  Project Name: Forestry Development Project
Team Leader: Robert Ragland Davis                                    TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: July 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Forestry Development Project                             L/C/TF Number: CPL-39480; SCL-3948A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3948S; TF-22918
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (41%); Forestry (40%); General agriculture, fishing and
                            forestry sector (10%); Agricultural extension and research (9%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Improving labor markets (P); Land administration
                            and management (S); Biodiversity (S); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/21/1994                                     Effective: 07/17/1996                07/17/1996
     Appraisal: 12/22/1994                                         MTR: 10/21/1998                  10/21/1998
      Approval: 10/24/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 01/31/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Argentine Republic/SAGPyA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:        Mark E. Cackler                                Constance A. Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:             Robert Ragland Davis                           Michael McGarry
ICR Primary Author:             Zhong Tong
With support from Karen Ravenelle-Smith, Ricardo Larrobla, and Richard Owen.
2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to contribute to the efficient and sustainable growth of forest
plantations and timber processing industries, to alleviate rural poverty, and to develop a strategy
and consensus for addressing the desertification and soil erosion problems in Patagonia.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective of the project was unchanged during the course of its execution.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components: (a) institutional strengthening, including the policy, legal, and
regulatory frameworks, affecting forest plantations and timber processing industries; (b) research
and information generation and dissemination; and (c) support to small farmers in the form of
technical assistance and grants in about five areas adjoining important native forests to help them
improve their farming practices partly through the use of agroforestry.

Total Project Costs: US$26.2 million (the sum of IBRD fund plus counterpart fund).
3.3.1 Institutional Strengthening Component (US$3.0 million; US$2.1 from IBRD and
US$0.9 million from GoA). The project's aim was to: (a) define a clearer role for the state in
forest plantations and timber processing industries in consultation with the private sector; and (b)
implement the proposed action program to eliminate, or at least mitigate, identified institutional
capacity gaps to key capacity elements such as policy-making, legislation/regulations,
inter-institutional and internal organization, personnel management, and skills; (c) analyze and
strengthen the policy, legal, and regulatory frameworks affecting plantations and timer processing
industries while ensuring consistency with Argentina environmental law and regulations; and (d)
address identified weakness in the principal institutions involved in project implementation:
SAGyP's DPF, INASE, and INTA. The project activities also included acquisition of vehicles,
equipment, training, studies, and technical assistance (TA).

3.3.2 Research and Information Generation and Dissemination Component (US$13.2
million; US$9.0 from IBRD and US$4.2 from GoA). The component aimed at generating
information with a high public-good content relative to commercial forest plantations and timber
processing industries. Specifically, the project aimed to : (i) complete a plantation forest
inventory, and create and maintain a current database on forest plantations; (ii) collect, input and
store other statistics in the database The component has six subcomponents:

Subcomponent A. Plantation Forest Inventory and Development and Management of a
Commercial Forestry Database. The objective of the subcomponent was to: (i) complete a
plantation forest inventory, and create and maintain current a database on forest plantations; (ii)
collect, input and store such other statistics in the database as are necessary for SAGyP to meet
its mandate in the commercial forestry sector; and (iii) analyze data and disseminate information
from the database. The activities included: (a) purchase of two sets of computer-compatible tapes
of satellite imagery for the areas of Argentina containing plantation forest; (b) the preparation
from an analysis of the two sets of these tapes of a basic map of plantation; (c) collection of
systematic field sampling, or ground truthing, to verify the spectral signature of different



                                                   - 2 -

plantation types on satellite image; (d) the preparation of a standard methodology for collecting
data and (e)strengthen capacity of the Statistics Unit within SAGPyA.

Subcomponent B. Markets and Grading Systems. Three main activities were included: (a) studies
to identify export markets for sawnwood in which Argentine mills have at least the potential to be
competitive; (b) development of a grading system for sawnwood appropriate to the markets
identified; and (c) completion of a training program for qualified mill operators and owners who
express interest.

Subcomponent C. Tree Selection and Breeding. The tree and breeding program was to initiate a
long-term effort to reach a higher level of species domestication in Argentina. The program would
concentrate on pines and eucalypts, the two most important genera in Argentina's planting
program.

Subcomponent D. Seedling Improvement and Marketing Program. The objective was to improve
yield and survival rates of trees in new forest plantations by promoting the expanded production,
marketing and use of improved planting material by nurseries. Three elements to achieve the
objective would be: (a) making information on improved seed sourcing and nursery management
techniques more readily available; (b) certifying improved seeds, seed producers, planting material
produced with that improved seed, and nurseries; and (c) improving the market for good quality
seedlings.

Subcomponent E. Plantation Management Research, Training and Extension. Plantation
management research was executed as part of an INTA-supported long-term program of applied
field research involving trials on tree spacing, pruning, thinning, and plantation establishment. In
order to disseminate the research findings, and provide guidelines for plantation establishment
consistent with Argentina environmental laws and regulations, to the more generalist extension
agents, SAGPy A with the assistance of INTA would select, train and direct a small core of about
10 subject matter specialists to perform this function.

Subcomponent F. Patagonia. The objectives were to: (a) collect, analyze, interpret, and report on
economic, social, biological, historic, climatic and other factors driving the desertification process
in Patagonia; (b) determine the costs to Argentina, the local population, and biodiversity and
hydrological systems if the process continues unabated; (c) assess the options available for
addressing the problem based on research and experience in Argentina, Australia, South Africa,
and the United States; (d) estimate the expected cost-benefit ratios of implementing a group of the
best options available, both singly and collectively; (e) outline an appropriate role for the state in
responding to the phenomenon; and (f) develop a consensus among federal, state and local
governments, the private sector, and NGOs on an action plan for the state in the Patagonia region.
To meet this objective, the project supported a comprehensive study of Patagonia, which assisted
policy makers in the development of a strategy for better managing the Patagonia.

3.3.3 Small Farmers Component (US$7.2 million; US$3.2 million from IBRD and US$4.0
million from GoA). The objective was to: (a) to alleviate rural poverty; and (b) to protect native
forest areas, by addressing the two main limiting factors faced by small farmers as they strived to



                                                  - 3 -

improve their farming practices: (i) availability of technical assistance and information on
improved, sustainable technologies; and (ii) access to the funds required to implement the
technical packages.

The activities included:

(a) applied/adaptive research. (The project supported applied research for the development of
conservation-oriented technologies and sustainable productive systems used by small farmers in
the project areas;
(b) extension/technology transfer. (The project built on existing extension programs and
methodologies with proven potential);
(c) environmental education campaigns. (These were directed toward small farmers and their
families, school teachers and the local population as a whole in order to raise public awareness of
environmental issues);
(d) agroforestry fund. (The project established an agroforestry fund with the twin objectives of:
(i) increasing farmers' incomes; and (ii) encouraging farmers to protect environmental values.
The project targeted to support 2,000 small farmer families); and
(e) management at local level. (Fees were paid to local NGOs or government agencies to provide
extension/technology transfer services and environmental education to beneficiaries, and monitor
the use of the agroforestry fund).

3.4 Revised Components:
Project components remained unchanged during the course of the project. However, during the
mid-tem review, the Bank team and the counterpart decided not to carry out the grading system
under the subcomponent B of the component 2, Markets and grading system. Because the peso
was overvalued in the mid and late 1990s, Argentina was not competitive in the export market for
wood products, especially saw timber. Therefore, the incentive to develop a grading system
became, for the time, irrelevant. Nevertheless, at the same time, SAGPyA decided to introduce a
classification system for structural timber.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
In the early 1990s, Argentina was emerging from a period of hyperinflation and economic
instability, and was confronted with the challenge of promoting economic growth. One of the
more promising areas identified for growth was the forestry sector, particularly in forest
plantations, timber processing, and agroforestry. With this in mind, the government sought ways
to narrow the gap between existing and potential sustainable levels of production. At the
government's request, the Bank initiated a review of the sector in 1992, leading to a Forestry
Sector Review (Report No. 11833-AR, dated April 26, 1993), the main objective of which was to
identify the unrealized potential of the plantation sector. This provided the foundation for the
identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project. The review noted that the issues and
challenges confronting Argentina's forest plantations, timber processing industries, and
agroforestry were consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy and its forestry,
environmental, and sector policies.

The Bank's support for economy-wide policies and actions necessary for the improvement of
Argentina's commercial forestry potential was pursued as part of the country dialogue and



                                                  - 4 -

economic work program. It was determined that the Bank could be of significant assistance to the
government in helping it to develop and implement an appropriate state role to support the
development of forest plantations, timber processing industries, and agroforestry. The Bank team
was composed of economists, foresters, and other technical experts. The project was well
prepared and had a sound technical design that targeted the issues and constraints derived from
the sector review report.

In addition, the government provided a good policy environment for the new project. Before the
project became effective, the government (SAGPyA) developed a series of activities to support
the project. These activities included: (i) a forestry extension plan with INTA; (ii) the publication
of price and market information; (iii) a document on sectoral policy with the consensus of the
Federal Agriculture Council and the provinces; (iv) technical cooperation with EU; (v) a forest
employment program with MTySS; (vi) the refinement of the system of financial incentives for
forestry; (vii) the launching of the National Forestry Development Plan; (VIII) the orderly text of
the 1948 Forestry Law; (ix) deregulation of the provincial timber guideline system; and (x) the
discussion of a new national regulatory framework to promote the sector.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall project outcome and achievement as stated in the SAR (1995) are rated Satisfactory.

4.1.1 Contribution to efficient and sustainable growth of forest plantations and timber processing
industries. Important contributions of the project in support of the objective include the
development of two draft laws and a plan and agenda for their implementation, the
implementation of the country's first national inventory for plantations, the establishment of Latin
America's first tree-seed certification system, market studies and training for industry personnel.

The project assisted the government in establishing a sustainable forestry sector through the
following activities:

Study of policies, laws, and regulations at federal and provincial levels. The project financed
studies of policies, laws, and regulations at the federal and provincial levels. The studies assessed
existing federal and provincial legislation and regulations affecting the establishment,
management, exploitation, transportation, processing, and exporting of commercial products from
plantations, and identified the main obstacles to the efficient functioning of the sector, including
related environmental consequences. Based on the conclusions derived from the study, the project
supported the drafting of federal and provincial legislation and regulations while ensuring
consistency with Argentina's environmental laws and regulations. In close coordination with the
federal and provincial legislatures, a plan and agenda for the approval and implementation of the
new policies were prepared.

The draft document that eventually led to Law 24.857 on Fiscal Stability for Forest Activity was
developed with project support, as was the 1999 draft that led to Law 25.080 (forestry
incentives). The draft version of Law 25.080 represents a significant contribution of the project to
Argentina's policy environment and provided an important element for the sector's evolution. Key



                                                  - 5 -

provisions were included to ensure that both biodiversity and environmental impacts were
considered in the course of plantation development. In addition, the project supported the
preparation of a forestry development strategy in SAGPyA. Law 25.080, which was eventually
executed by the government (not the project), contributed to Argentina's ten-year national
forestry plan and a legal framework for ensuring environmentally sustainable development of the
plantation sector remains in place today.

Information generation and dissemination. The Project supported: (i) the completion of the
country's plantation forestry inventory and the creation and maintenance of a database on forest
plantations; (ii) the collection, input, and storage of other statistics in the database for SAGyA to
meet its mandate in the commercial forestry sector; and (iii) the analysis of data and dissemination
of information from the database. The forestry plantation inventory and statistics database at
federal level has been well established and is able to provide the government with information and
data for policy-making purposes and sector planning.

Applied research subprojects. A total of 117 applied research subprojects financed by the project
included techniques for plantation establishment and improvement, harvesting, wood utilization,
and environmental sustainability in production systems. The project organized forest producers to
attend workshops to help disseminate research findings, and published two volumes summarizing
the results of the subprojects. Through application of the research results producers can improve
plantation management, increase productivity, as well as conserve biodiversity and protect the
environment.

National forest seed certification system and breeding program. The project supported INASE in
developing and implementing a forest seed certification system while increasing the market for
good quality seedlings. Now that the certification system is in place and technical guidelines have
been developed for the program, all new plantations established using government incentives are
required to use seedlings certified as "source identified." In addition, a 165-hectare seed orchard
was established, which has produced 11,850 tons of improved pine and eucalypt seeds. Along
with the improvements in seed quality, the program provided a means to trace seed sources, as
might be required in order to help control forest pests and diseases. The seed certification system
helps to ensure the availability of planting stock with known genotypes, and to avoid the spread of
pests and diseases in plantations.

In order to improve tree utilization in Argentina, the project supported the design and
implementation of a breeding program for conifers (pines) and broadleaf species (Eucalyptus).
The breeding program was carried out by SAGPyA with the assistance of INTA. The program
was successfully completed and is now being implemented with government funding. Presently, a
total of 130 nurseries have certified sources of seeds. Through the project, improved varieties of
Eucalyptus were also developed, which produce higher volumes of pulp wood over shorter
rotations. The breeding program builds on the seed certification system. Certified seeds produce
improved planting stock for plantations which grow faster, have better form, produce more
volume and have improved resistance to pests and diseases. This work was particularly important
to the sector, as wood quality has been identified as a key area for improvement in Argentina's
plantations.



                                                  - 6 -

Market study to identify the export market for sawnwood. The project supported the timber
industry in: (i) carrying out market studies to identify the export market for sawnwood in which
Argentina's sawmills have at least the potential to be competitive; (ii) developing a grading system
for sawnwood appropriate for the markets identified; and (iii) completing a training program for
qualified mill operators and owners who expressed interest. The studies identified the potential
export market in Japan, the Middle East, and the U.S.A., and a group of private companies
arranged for a trade exhibition in Japan. Since the 2002 currency devaluation, Argentina has
begun to export timber products to these countries and Europe. The project also financed a study
to identify the main constraints to the development of small- and medium-size forest industries in
Misiones and Corrientes.

Extension and technology transfer in forest plantations. The project's support included extension
services and technology transfer to pilot extension models with small- and medium-scale
producers to (i) improve farming and management systems; (ii) promote farmers' organizations;
(iii) provide technical assistance for land use planning; and (iv) test ways to diversify agricultural
production. Seven Forestry Extension Nodes (NEF) were established to provide extension
services to producers and landholders. About 4000 forest producers benefited from this support
and their plantation management has improved. The extension service helped to link the policy
and legal frameworks through research to the producers and their plantations.

4.1.2 Alleviate rural poverty. Major contributions of the project toward the objective were to
provide grants and technical assistance to1,803 small farmers' families to adopt new technologies
for agroforestry in order to improve the productivity of their holdings and ameliorate
environmental impacts. Specifically, under the Small Farmer component, the project supported
applied/adaptive research, extension/technology transfer, environmental education campaigns, and
agroforestry funding to help farmers to plant trees and thus increase their income and encourage
them to protect environmental value. A total of 1,803 small farmers' families received funds for
adopting new technology (access to capital). The evaluation report on the component showed
that plantations have a robust financial rate of return in the areas of Neuquén and Misiones, while
pilot activities in the areas of the Chaco ecosystem were less successful.

4.1.3 Develop a strategy and consensus for addressing the desertification and soil erosion problem
in Patagonia. The major contribution of the project toward the objective was to conduct a
comprehensive study on factors contributing to desertification and soil erosion in Patagonia, and
to build consensus with a range of stakeholders in the development of an action plan to combat
the desertification process.

Specifically, the project supported a comprehensive study of Patagonia to: (i) collect, analyze,
interpret, and report on what was known about the economic, social, biological, historical,
climatic, and other factors driving the desertification process in Patagonia; (ii) determine the costs
to Argentina, the local population, and biodiversity and hydrological systems if the process
continues unabated; (iii) assess the options available for addressing the problem based on research
and experience in Argentina, Australia, South Africa, and the United States; (iv) estimate the
expected cost-benefit ratios of implementing a group of the best options available, both singly and



                                                  - 7 -

collectively; (v) outline an appropriate role for the state in responding to the phenomenon; and
(vi) develop a consensus among federal, state, and local governments, the private sector, and
NGOs on a state action plan for Patagonia. The study was carried out by international and
national experts and completed in 2000.

Based on the study, the government has made progress in developing a strategy to resolve the
problem of desertification and soil erosion in the Patagonia region. The strategy considered two
objectives: (i) recovering the profitability of livestock business in the region; and (ii) reversing
environmental degradation. The overall impact of the study was a comprehensive diagnosis on
causes of desertification in Patagonia and recommendations for measures to mitigate and reverse
the trend. The strategy was presented at a workshop in 2000 with 110 participants and is now the
basis for the preparation of a UNDP GEF desertification project for the region.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening

The outputs of the component are rated satisfactory.

Policies, laws, and regulations for commercial plantations. The project financed studies of
policies, laws, and regulations at the federal and provincial levels to target policy weaknesses in
the country. The studies assessed existing federal and provincial legislation and regulations
affecting the establishment, management, exploitation, transportation, processing, and exporting
of commercial products from plantations, and identified the main obstacles to the efficient
functioning of the sector, including related environmental consequences. Based on the conclusions
derived from the studies, the project supported the drafting of federal and provincial legislation
and regulations while ensuring consistency with Argentina's environmental laws and regulations.

The project provided technical assistance to the government for policy making in the forestry
sector. The main achievements are:
(i)     The draft version of the law that led to Law 24.857 on Fiscal Stability for Forest Activity,
which was approved in September 1997;
(ii)    The draft version of the law that led to Law 25.080 on Investment for Forest Plantations
(incentives), which was an important contribution of the project. The law, approved in 1999,
includes important provisions for the protection of the environment and biodiversity in the context
of forestry plantation establishment;
(iii)   The Official Decree for implementing Law 25.080 was approved on January 18, 1999,
was registered under No. 133/99 ,and was published on March 1 of the same year;
(iv)    The project also supported the adjustment of provincial laws to comply with the national
law. The project provided technical assistance to provincial forestry authorities in the writing,
presentation, and approval of respective provincial laws including beneficiaries and adaptation to
the reality of each province;
(v)     The project supported the development of draft inputs to Law 25.509 on User Rights,
approved on December 11 2001, which ensured that qualified producers would be able to benefit
from timber sales even if they did not have title to the land. The law amended the Civil Code;
(vi)    Preparation of technical work related to the methodology for cost-benefit analyses of soil
use and carbon sequestration in forest systems for the Clean Development Mechanism;


                                                   - 8 -

(vii)   Evaluation of the Argentine plantation sector's potential to successfully engage and
compete in carbon markets (through sequestration activities); and
(viii)  The project supported Argentina's participation in different international initiatives; for
example, Montreal Protocol, Global Climate Change, and Convention on Biodiversity. The
project also financed various studies to identify the potential for promoting environmental services
and for carbon trading.

Inter-institutional and internal organization. Inter-institutional interactions were reviewed, as was
SAGPyA's relationship to the new development policy. An international consultant worked with
SAGyA's DF and INASE to help define an updated and improved organizational structure, and to
foster more modern management procedures and styles in administration. The work included a
diagnostic of institutional capacity and a definition of DF's function, organization, needs, and
programs. Based on the results of the study, the DF developed a training program. The project
provided financing for the DF's training plan. A total of 47 training courses were conducted. The
training subjects included administrative management, English courses, communications skills,
forest economics, and forest certification. DF Inventory technical staff traveled to Spain, Brazil,
and Chile for some of the training. One technical staff member of DF studied for a master's
degree in environmental assessment in the U.K. and continues to work with the DF in this
important area. The project also financed a study tour to Minas Gerais, Brazil for institutional
agents of the government forest services to share experiences. In addition, technical training in
forest inventories was carried out through hands-on experience in GIS applications.

The project financed the purchase of information equipment for DF. The plantation inventory
system included the purchase of a license for specialized software for GIS and GPS, 14 sets of
computers, 4 sets of printers, and 4 sets of PC workstations. Other equipment for the DF included
furniture, 24 sets of computers, and 15 sets of printers. The project financed a consultant to
develop and install specific software to upgrade administrative services for processing requests
related to Law 25.080.

The main achievements/outputs are as follows:

(i)     Improved capacity of professional and technical level DF staff, especially in the field of
forestry inventories, database management, and environmental impacts;
(ii)    INTA's capacity in the areas of genetic improvement and applied research has been
strengthened;
(iii)   A geographic information system (GIS) was installed within the DF and is still operational.
Four working stations were established, and three are in operation. Consultants funded by the
project were absorbed by the DF to ensure sustainability. The technical/operational training in
GIS was provided for DF's technical staff;
(iv)    One DF professional obtained a master's degree in environmental assessment in the U.K.
Two INTA professionals obtained PhD degrees in Australia. Both continue to be employed by
INTA, and are putting their new skills to work;
(v)     SAGPyA began publishing its forestry periodical "SAGPyA Forestal" in 1996, which
continued on a bi-monthly basis through February 2002. A total of 22 issues were published.
Since 2002, SAGPyA publishes 3000 copies of the magazine on a quarterly basis throughout the



                                                  - 9 -

sector. The magazine provides general information on forestry in the country, technical articles,
information on prices and markets, news and events regarding the forest environment. It has
become a provider of technical information sources and the only consistent source of price
information on wood products in Argentina;
(vi)    Training in forest fire management was conducted in the U.S. in conjunction with
U.S.D.A Forest Service. A total of 14 technicians from provincial DBs, forest producers
associations, firefighting services and the National Parks Administration attended;
(vii)   Workshops and seminars in interested subjects were also organized. As well as technical
publications were issued. More than 300 technicians from DF, provincial DB, universities, INTA,
and private sectors received training in using the geographic positioning system (GPS) and Arc
View software;
(viii)  Short training courses. The DF developed a training plan for both federal and provincial
professionals and technicians working in forestry. During the project 47 courses were carried out
on select forestry, technical and administrative themes.

Support to project implementation. In accordance with the project's conditions of effectiveness, a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established under SAGPyA, and managed and
coordinated the project implementation as well as other day-to-day operational activities (such as
monitoring and evaluation and periodic reporting). The unit's main responsibilities were to: (i)
maintain a system for monitoring project implementation; (ii) prepare and adjust annual operating
plans; (iii) prepare project progress reports for submission to the Bank; (iv) supervise the
administration of the special account; (v) assist the Bank in carrying out the midterm review; (vi)
evaluate consulting reports contracted by the project; and (vii) act as project counterpart in
interactions among the institutions involved (DF, INTA, INASE, Universities, NGOs, and
others). The Project financed the purchase of computer and office equipment for the PIU. PIU
consultants received training in project implementation including planning, procurement, financial
management, and M&E. During the 2001 financial crisis, the government's counterpart funding
was constrained, which impacted project implementation. However, as the majority of activities
for the project were already underway or completed, the impact did not affect the overall outcome
of the project.

The total expenditure of this component was 34% over the amount estimated (US$4.03 million
versus US$3.0 million planned).

Component 2: Research and Information Generation and Dissemination.

The outputs of the component are rated as highly satisfactory.

The component consisted of six subcomponents: (i) inventory and database; (ii) market and
grading; (iii) tree breeding; (iv) seedling improvement; (v) plantation management; and (vi)
Desertification of the Patagonia Region.

Subcomponent A. National plantation inventory and database. The Project supported the
completion of Argentina's first national plantation inventory and the creation and maintenance of
a database on the country's 1.2 million ha of forest plantations. During the first phase, project



                                                 - 10 -

support included: (i) the purchase of two sets of computer-compatible tapes of satellite imagery
for the areas of Argentina containing plantation forests; and (ii) preparation of provincial level
maps of plantations at a scale of 1:100,000, which formed the basis for monitoring changes in
plantations. During the second phase, systematic field sampling provided detailed information on
plantation areas by species groups, by province and by region. It also provided information on
standing volumes of the main species by province and region.

In addition, the Project supported the creation of a database and a geographic information system
(GIS). Associated activities included: (i) preparing a standard methodology for collecting data;
and (ii) strengthening the capacity of the Statistics Unit within SAGPyA to handle the task
through the provision of training and equipment (computers and telecommunications equipment).

The subcomponent's principal products were: (i) classification of plantations by species and by
region or province; (ii) estimation of the total volume of timber by species and by region or
province; (iii) the production of maps with infrastructure and concentration of plantations
according to species; (iv) the establishment of a GIS and database; and (v) the training of
technical staff in inventory activities. In addition, the plantation area by different classes of
producers (small, Medium, and large) was calculated. The inventory provided an important
baseline for plantation statistics, which are now being updated through proxy measurements such
as records of disbursements for planting subsidies. The inventory revealed that there were 1.2
million hectares of plantations in the country, 80% of which are located in the northeast. The
project, through SAGPyA, has published all of its inventory findings on a state-of-the-art web
site. The project also helped to design a methodology for updating inventory data on a
decentralized basis, which was refined prior to its implementation by the province of Corrientes.

The governments (national and provincial) use the plantation inventory information and statistics
database as a basic instrument for policy development and planning at national and regional levels.
The use of this information includes (i) definition of priority areas or regions for establishing
forest plantations; (ii) planning the utilization of land and natural resources; (iii) knowledge
accumulation and information transfer; and (iv) possibility of periodic updating of results and
maintaining the database with secure and current information.

Subcomponent B. Markets and grading system. The Project financed a study to identify export
markets, which identified those in Japan, the U.S., the E.U., and the Middle East as the most
promising. It also supported the introduction of a simplified grading system for wood for
domestic home building. A group of private companies arranged a trade exhibition of products in
Japan. In addition, the Project financed a study to identify the main constraints to the development
of small- and medium-sized forest industries in the provinces of Misiones and Corrientes.

In the U.S., products with good potential included decking, wood fences, etc. which would be
competitive with processed wood products. In the Middle East, Argentina's timber products,
including flooring and furniture, were presented at a trade fair. In Europe, Spanish and
Portuguese industry showed interest in Argentine forest products and expressed interest in
making arrangements for their import.




                                                  - 11 -

Subcomponent C. Tree selection and breeding. The tree selection and breeding program aimed to
improve the genetic quality of seeds or clones of conifer (particularly pine) and broadleaf
(particularly eucalyptus), with an emphasis on improving production. PPMPM (Improved
Propagation Material Production Program) was developed in consultation with SAGPyA, INTA,
and others research institutes, universities, and private companies. The program had six
subprograms by selected regions in the country. The subprograms included: (i) pine in
Mesopotamia; (ii) eucalyptus in Mesopotamia; (iii) conifers in the Andean Patagonia region; (iv)
Poplulus spp. in the Parana delta; (v) pine and eucalyptus in the Northwest; and (vi) Salix in the
Parana delta. Subprogram execution has supported the interinstitutional relationship between
public and private sectors. The program achieved several important benchmarks and, as a result,
improved genetic planting stock is increasingly being used in Argentina. The program developed
procedures and classified planting stock (or seeds) by quality and evaluated productivity gains of
the improved varieties through field trials. Working groups were formed during the project's
tenure and personnel were trained in tree breeding techniques. The project also helped to diversify
the program's activities through genetic improvement of native genera, including Prosopis,
Nothofagus and Austrocedrus. In addition, a study to identify genetic markers for select species
was carried out. During program execution, 165 hectares of plantations for producing improved
seed were developed, and 11,843 kg of seed were harvested. The book "Best Trees for
Plantations" was edited and published based on results of the activity.

Subcomponent D. Seedling improvement and marketing program. Given the long-term strategy to
improve the genetic quality of material available to nurseries, a short-term program to improve the
production, marketing, and use of improved planting material in plantations was also developed
under the project. The strategy included three main elements: (i) improving the availability of
information on improved seed sourcing and nursery management techniques; (ii) certifying
improved seeds, seed producers, and planting material produced with improved seeds, and
nurseries; and (iii) improving the market for good quality seedlings.

The project evaluated the current status of seed production and nurseries in selected regions early
on during the project. Based on the result of the evaluation, a seed certification system was
proposed; and regulation for certification, production, marketing, and importation of forest
species seeds, design, preparation, and implementation was developed (INASE Resolution
259/99). The necessary legal framework to control improved seed production was developed. The
seed certification system established by the project is the first in Latin America. About 100
nurseries are now registered in the system.

Even though this initiative has been largely successful, INASE's capacity to monitor compliance
with seed certification criteria in the field remains limited, and a demonstration trial was never
carried out.

Subcomponent E. Plantation management research, training, and extension. The Project
supported INTA's long-term program of applied field research involving trials on tree spacing,
especially for silvopastoral purposes; as well as for optimum timber production, pruning, thinning,
and plantation establishment (including fertilization, land preparation, and weed and pest control).
A total of 117 applied research subprojects (PIA) were distributed in different regions -- Andean



                                                  - 12 -

Patagonia (46), Mesopotamia (43), Northeast Argentina (NOA) (4), and Pampeana/Delta/Central
(8). PIA topics covered a range of themes; most PIAs (54%) focused on silviculture, forest
plantation establishment and management, and silvopastoral systems, 18% of the subprojects were
carried out on ecological and sustainability themes in forest plantation, 18% focused on forest
pest problems, and the remaining 10% were on wood technology and industrial applications, and
socioeconomic themes. In the Andean region, topics included nursery establishment, plantation
development, plantation protection, plantation management, timber quality improvement,
plantation pests, etc. In the Mesopotamia region, the topics included plantation establishment and
site quality, natural regeneration of pine, plantation pests, the nutrition and carbon cycle,
plantation management, timber property, genetic improvement, etc. In NOA, topics included
establishment/development of plantation and timber property. In the Pampeana/Delta/Central
region, topics included land evaluation, plantation management, reproductive materials of
Prosopis, etc. In the Delta region, in collaboration with the Pacific Forest Research Institution of
Canada, valuable research work was performed through biological control of the wood-boring
insect Platypus. In addition, the Project helped to create thematic research working groups in the
areas of insect control, forest management, sustainability indicators, and biodiversity. PIAs
dealing with forestry ecology have helped to establish a baseline for understanding interactions
between forestry and the environment in different regions of the country.

The forest extension system, based on Forestry Extension Nodes (NEFs), was created under the
project. NEFs operated according to an annual extension plan agreed with the project
management. Extension agents received training early in the project in technology transfer
techniques appropriate for small- and medium-scale producers. Agents worked extensively with
these producers to help improve their forestry plantation efforts. Forestry operations workers and
producers also received training in technical themes and safety.

Publications produced under the subcomponent include, for example, manuals for chainsaw
operation and detection and control of forest pests such as Sirex spp. More than 300 papers on
research results were published in international and national media. Two volumes were published
by SAGPyA on PIA subproject results ("Forestry Research for Production" Volumes I and II).
New technologies for forestry operations were adopted, for example, in Mesopotamia.

Subcomponent F. Desertification in the Patagonia Region. The Project supported a
comprehensive study of desertification issues in Patagonia, which was carried out by international
and local firms. The main study report included an assessment of the current situation, problems
and underlying causes of desertification, along with a proposed strategy, suggested actions, and
conclusions. The report included supplementary information on hydrological resources and
Patagonia's wetlands, desertification and conservation, natural resource utilization,
socioeconomic and legal aspects. The project also supported a workshop to discuss the findings
of the studies in Patagonia. The results of the study have been used to design the GEF
desertification control project managed by UNDP, which will be executed in cooperation with
SAGPyA and others.

The study coved five main thematic areas including: Structure and Function of Patagonia's
Ecosystems, Ecology of Vegetation in Patagonia, Wildlife Ecology, Geomorphology, Riparian



                                                 - 13 -

Areas, Soil Degradation, Bio-zones of the Patagonia Region, and Structure and Function of
Patagonia Rangelands

The total expenditure of the component was about 87% of the estimated amount ($11.46 million
verses $13.2 million planned).

Component 3: Small Farmers

The outputs of the component were rated as satisfactory

Small farmers can place significant pressure on natural ecosystems as their farmlands and pastures
expand into forests. Livestock can also cause considerable damage to trees, understory vegetation
and soils if left to graze in forests ­ a common practice in some parts of Argentina. With this in
mind, the government, through the project, assisted small farmers in adopting more sustainable
and less environmentally-destructive farming practices. In this way, the project's helped to
alleviate rural poverty by improving on-farm production and protecting native forest areas by
providing technical assistance and funding for implementation.

Applied/adaptive research. The project supported applied research targeted to developing
conservation oriented technologies and sustainable productive systems used by small farmers.
INTA took the lead in carrying out research activities. A total of nine research subprojects have
been carried out on thematic topics: productivity of agroforestry systems, forest management and
enrichment practices, evaluation of irrigation methodology, and management of wetland pastures.
The program generated very useful information, but did not realize its full potential due to weak
linkages between research and extension and the inadequate number of extensionists.

Extension/technology transfer. The project-supported activities included (i) extension services for
improving farming/management systems; (ii) promoting farmers' organizations; (iii) providing
technical assistance for land use plans; and (iv) testing approaches to diversify agricultural
production. The project identified the extension agencies and evaluated their proposals to carry
out extension programs (PE) and technology transfer (TT) in each area. The implementation of
PE&TT had a strong impact on the adoption and dissemination of economically and socially
sustainable environmental technology, and has contributed in many cases to regularizing land
tenure. The strategic outreach instruments used by agroforestry extensionists were mainly
workshops, technical meetings, visits to small farmers. The project designed a monitoring and
evaluation system for conservation and production subprojects to apply funds. There were 1,803
families in 1,674 subprojects with 3,668 hectares of agroforestry systems, 635 hectares of
plantations in blocks, and about 1,182 hectares of native forest restoration. An estimated 8,000
farm families received training in management and conservation of natural resources.

Environmental education campaigns. The campaigns aimed to raise public awareness of
environmental issues and were geared toward small farmers and their families, school teachers,
and the local population. Activities included community and school tree planting, production of
environmental education videos, and training of primary school teachers. The project-allocated
resources were sufficient to design an environmental education campaign, but insufficient to carry



                                                - 14 -

out the campaign itself.

Agroforestry fund. An agroforestry fund financed by government counterpart resources was
established to finance small farmers to encourage them to adopt new technologies to improve
their production practices in order to increase their incomes and encourage farmers to protect
environmental values. A total of 1,803 small farmer families received grants, averaging
US$500­700 per family. The shortfall was due to a combination of inadequate funding (CF),
inadequate extension workers to reach this large number of beneficiaries, unclear land titling, and
the disruption caused by the 2002 economic crisis when the flow of funds at local levels was
constrained. There were more than 2,000 subproject proposals and 1,674 subprojects were
granted. The fund supported two main types of activities, (i) agricultural production and (ii)
conservation (which aimed to provide environmental benefits but did not provide immediate or
direct improvements to production), which were distributed through subprojects.

The actual total expenditure of the component was US$2.67 million or 37% of the appraisal
estimate of US$7.2 million.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
During project appraisal, an analysis of the economic rate of return was not carried out for
component C, Small Farmer. However, a near post-project analysis of the economic rate of return
was carried out by an external consultant. The analysis was based on data collected through
interviews and from local technicians in the field (Misiones, Chaco, and Formosa, Yungas de
Salta, and Neuquén) and processed with FARMOD software. The economic rate of return for the
project as whole and for four provinces/regions is shown in the following table.

                    Economic Rate       Net Present Value Total Incremental Annual
                    of Return (ERR) (NPV) (AR$)           Income for 35     Incremental
                    (%)                                   Years (AR$)       Income (AR$)
Total Component C          28.8              7,969,648       135,300,000         3,865,710
Misiones                   41.6              7,909,640       114,398,650         3,268,400
Agriculture                                                   20,584,000         588,000
Livestock                                                     21,417,900         611,900
Forestry                                                      72,396,750         2,068,500
Chaco/Formosa              10.4               -109,524         6,894,610         197,000
Agriculture                                                   -1,400,360         -40,000
Livestock                                                      5,270,720         150,600
Forestry                                                       3,024,250          86,400
Yungas de Salta            7.4                -194,595         3,961,136         113,174
Agriculture                                                    3,038,729          86,820
Forestry                                                        922,407           26,354
Neuquén                    18.7               364,128          8,460,190         241,720
Livestock (forage)                                             7,933,090         226,660
Forestry                                                        527,100           15,060


From the results of the economic analysis, it can be concluded that the Small Farmer component
as whole was economically viable, as the investment generated a net present value (NPV) of
AR$8 million (equal to US$2.6 million), and the ERR of 29%. However, the ERRs for


                                                   - 15 -

Chaco/Formosa and Yungas de Salta were below the discount rate of 12% (10.4% and 7.4%,
respectively), which implied they were not economically viable. In Chaco/Formosa, the main
explanation for the low ERR was that the agricultural production earned negative income; cotton
production mainly contributed to this, with a negative increase of 20%. The unfavorable climate
(drought) seriously affects agricultural production, especially for crops. In Yungas de Salta, the
small average land holding per family (2.2 ha) would make it difficult to support all agriculture,
livestock, and forestry. Livestock production in the province was not very profitable and could
not compensate forestry activities which generate income much slower and over longer periods of
time.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was estimated by different types of crop models in each province. The
estimated results are shown in the following table:

                                 Financial  Net Present   Total             Annual
          Farm Model             FRR (%)                  Incremental       Incremental
                                            Value US$)    Income for 35     Incomes (AR$)
                                                          years (AR$)
Misiones small producer (22 ha):   85.3       23,864          139,925            3,998
Agriculture                                                   24,800              709
Livestock                                                     27,900              797
Forestry                                                      87,225             2,492
Chaco/Formosa small producer       28.5        2,888          27,710              620
(20 ha):
Agriculture                                                   -4,550              -130
Livestock                                                     17,360              496
Forestry                                                       8,900              254
Yungas de Salta small producer     28.9        2,214          20,024              572
(2.2 ha):
Agriculture                                                   15,859              453
Forestry                                                       4,166              119
Neuquen small producer(500 ha):     155       11,041          76,966             2,199
Livestock (forage)                                            55,986             1,600
Forestry                                                      20,980              599


The results shown in the above table indicate that all FRRs estimated were viable, meaning that
farmers or producers earned a profit from project activities. In general, livestock generated higher
incomes than agricultural and forest activities except in Misiones, where forest activities earned
the highest income because pines (trees) have a higher value than the other tree crops (Prosopis
and Cedrela) planted under the project. The explanation for the high FRRs of the small producer
model was that the family labor available and used in production was not included in investment
costs nor included in operating costs. Moreover, the subsidy was counted as part of the income.
In Misiones, the subsidy from the project (per farm) was AR$3,100, in Chaco/Formosa
AR$3,150, and in Yungas de Salta AR$3,900; in Neuquén AR$4,540 was from the project and
AR$630 was from the provincial government. Without the government subsidy, it would be
difficult for the small farmers in Chaco/Formosa and in Yungas de Salta to make profits from the
forestry activities.



                                                - 16 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's contribution to institutional development is rated satisfactory.

The project contributed to institutional development by strengthening the capacity of the
Directorate of Forestry (DF) and the National Institute of Agricultural Research (INTA).

Strengthening the DF's capacity. Weak institutional capacity has been one of the major obstacles
to Argentina's forestry development. The Institutional Capacity Analysis study identified the
institutional capacity gaps in five areas: rules of the game; inter-institutional relationships; internal
organization and management at entity level; personnel policies; and reward systems. The Project
made a major contribution to the DF's capacity to collect, manage, and disseminate strategic
information on the forestry plantation sector. Iinformation systems, including the National
Plantation Inventory and the Forestry Statistics Database, were established. They provide
reliable data and information for policy making and development planning. Through the forestry
inventory and associated database, the Government of Argentina has up-to-date information on
the specific compositions and volumes of forest plantations throughout the country. This
information is also available through the DF's Web site and is now equipped to deal with
environmental issues associated with plantation development. The project provided technical
assistance (TA) for studies of policies, laws, and regulations at federal and provincial levels, and
for workshops to obtain feedback on the study's major findings. TA was also provided for the
drafting of legislation and regulations. Ad hoc training was provided to DF technical staff to
upgrade professional and technical skills, which has helped to bridge gaps in technical areas
related to forest plantations. The training also provided a platform for the participants, who were
national and provincial civil servants and a few private sector employees, to have better
communication skills and share experiences. To increase outreach to the forestry sector, the DF
publishes a quarterly periodical, SAGPyA Forestal, to provide technical and market information to
the public and private sector concerning plantations and timber processing.

The National Institute of Agricultural Technology (INTA) is a part of SAGPyA, a
semi-autonomous research and extension entity that includes a forestry research unit. Through the
management and implementation of PIAs, INTA's capacity to carry out priority forestry research
issues has been improved. The project also assisted INTA to strengthen its capacity for research
on genetic improvement of forest species. The Project improved INTA's capacity to generate
information on agroforestry by funding two INTA researchers for Ph.D studies in genetic
improvement and agroforestry. INTA carried out a total of 117 PIA research subprojects.

The project had a modest impact on INASE's capacity to adequately implement seed certification
in the field.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The financial crisis of December 2001 and associated political difficulties constrained the
project's implementation, especially for new activities. Currency was in short supply throughout
the country and allocations (both IBRD and counterpart funding) were reduced to the project
during that time. While progress slowed for about two years, the majority of project activities


                                                     - 17 -

were already underway prior to the crisis, which helped to ensure their successful closure. At the
same time, during the crisis, the Argentine currency devalued considerably (from US$1: AR$1 to
US$1: AR$4, eventually stabilizing around US$1:AR$3). The currency devaluation resulted in
lower costs for local expenditures (in US dollar terms) including the costs of domestic training,
local consultants, and PIU consultant salaries. This resulted in savings and unused loan proceeds
amounting to US$2,666,238.16 were cancelled at the end of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The factors subject to the government's control that affected project implementation were (i) the
sectoral policy environment and (ii) support to the project (and project budget). In respect to the
policy environment, the government showed good support in the implementation of specific
policies to support forestry development including Law 25.080 regarding plantation investment,
Law 25.857 regarding Fiscal Stability for Forest Activities, and Law 25.509 concerning User
Rights. All of these laws supported project implementation by enhancing the enabling environment
for plantation forestry.

The government provided an average of 39% of the financing for the project, with the exception
of the small farmer grants which were financed fully by the government (100%). Although
counterpart funds were generally allocated in a timely manner, during the financial crisis, with
budget restrictions in place throughout the government, counterpart funding was constrained and
allocations were reduced to the project. In the end, total counterpart funds from the government
reached US$4,831,661, about 47% of the amount originally planned. Procedurally, the
government did not allocate counterpart funds for the project in its annual budget. Instead, an
additional budget was provided as a source of the counterpart funds. Unfortunately, during the
financial crisis (2002­2004), the funds were never received by the project and activities, especially
those requiring counterpart funding, were constrained. Some of the political changes affected
project implementation. For example, the new secretary of SAGPyA was replaced several times
during the crisis years and, during the same time period, the project coordinator was often
replaced (there were five coordinators during project implementation).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
SAGPyA was the executing agency. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established on
behalf of SAGPyA to coordinate day-to-day implementation activities. The project benefited from
strong institutional support and virtually no shortage (nor limits) of either IBRD or counterpart
funds during its first three years. The PIU was headed by a competent coordinator with strong
international experience, and the technical manager possessed similar credentials. This contributed
to a robust beginning. Overall, the PIU staff was relatively stable despite transitions in the
Secretariat's administration, especially during the crisis years, with the exception of the Executive
Coordinator, which changed five times from 1999 through 2003.

PIU consultants received training on project management including planning, procurement,
financial management, and M&E. The staff was highly qualified, professional, competent, and
dedicated to its work, which facilitated project implementation. The staff prepared annual
working plans, bi-annual progress reports, monitoring and audit reports. The financial
management unit supervised and administered the special account, which satisfied the Bank's
requirements. They worked very closely with the Bank team to prepare the midterm review report



                                                    - 18 -

and delivered a high-quality product. The project's final evaluation report was also successfully
carried out by the PIU. The project had no cases of misprocurement nor financial disqualification
problems in any of the financial auditing reports.

The disbursement of IBRD funds during the early years of the project (1997­1999) was relatively
slow because ample counterpart funds were available and sufficient to pay the project activity
expenses.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$ 26.2 million equivalent, of which the
IBRD loan amounted to US$16.0 million. The total loan disbursements as of the withdrawal
application deadline amounted to US$13,333,762 (83.3% of the total loan). Total counterpart
funding amounted to US$4,831,661. Thus, the total project cost was US$ 18,165,424 million
equivalent (69.3% percent of the total cost estimated at appraisal).

5.4.1   Financial Management.

Two FM supervision missions were carried out by the Regional FM Team in November 2002 and
July 2004. The conclusions of the supervision missions were that the project's overall FM
performance was satisfactory. Some weaknesses, mainly related to the lack of timely counterpart
funding and some errors in the exchange rates applied to convert expenditures paid in pesos into
dollars, were identified by the FM supervision missions. These weaknesses did not materially
affect project performance and were satisfactorily addressed by the PIU through the completion
of an agreed action plan.

5.4.2   Financial Audit

Audit Reports: The Auditor General's Office (AGN, Auditoría General de la Nación)
consistently submitted the project's audit report for each fiscal year after the agreed due date in
the Loan Agreement. Despite the late submission, all project audit reports were acceptable to the
Bank. Late submission of audit reports has been a chronic difficulty throughout the Argentine
portfolio.

Qualified opinions on the project's basic financial statements and unqualified opinions on the
Special Account were given by the auditors throughout the project life. The nature of the
auditors' qualifications did not indicate any substantial accountability issue. Audit issues and FM
supervision findings were properly addressed by the PIU which in turn took the necessary actions
to adequately tackle those issues.

5.4.3   Disbursement Plan

Since about 100% of project costs incurred in foreign exchange (vehicles, equipment, and
consulting services) were paid prior to the Argentine peso's devaluation (1998­2001), foreign
costs were not affected by the devaluation. On the other hand, the undisbursed loan amount of
roughly US$2.66 million can be explained as a cost savings resulting from the change of parity
between the US dollar and the Argentine peso that occurred in early 2002.


                                                - 19 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project's sustainability is considered likely.

The Government of Argentina considered the sustainable development of the forestry sector an
important part of its national economic development strategy. Prior to project completion, the
government proposed a second IBRD forestry project to continue strengthening the capacity of
DF and provincial DBs, reform policies and regulations, strengthen the forestry research and
extension system, and continue to support small and medium forest producers. The project,
Argentina Sustainable Forestry Development, under preparation, will aim to achieve all these
objectives.

The project supported the development of drafts for several laws to support forestry sector
development. This well established legal framework continues to enhance forestry sector
development and modernization. Training for DF staff has improved their management capacity
for working in various areas.

The results of the national forest plantation inventory and the forestry database have been broadly
disseminated and are found on SAPGyA's Web site (under the DF), which facilitates user access
and fosters cross-cutting applications according to a diverse set of user needs. The DF is presently
engaged in a pilot exercise to update its methodology for carrying out the inventory in Corrientes
province which has started working on this task.

In the area of applied research, PIAs and the PPMPM resulted in the formation of specialized
working groups, the installation of trials, and the consolidation of lines of research which
contribute to the long-term sustainability of these efforts and INTA has adopted a new national
strategy for research implementation, with a long-term planning focus. A large percentage of
INTA's forestry research projects are now based on the continuation of PIAs or PPMPM.

The NEFs have been absorbed by the government and are financed and supported by the DF as an
official extension service. They will continue forestry extension activities already being
implemented and potentially expand their geographic coverage to new areas.

The seed certification system developed by the project is an official requirement for forest
nurseries, although it still needs to strengthen monitoring in the field and control quality.

The information and conclusions derived from the study on desertification in the Patagonia region
are the basis for a new UNFP GEF project and contribute to the government's regional
development and planning processes.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The DF has absorbed many of the project's functions, including the financing and management of
extension agents for the seven NEFs. Many of the former PIU consultants have been retained and
continue work on other forestry activities.


                                                  - 20 -

The plantation inventory system is very well established and will be updated routinely. The new
project will support establishing (modernizing) the inventory system at the provincial level. In the
future, the national and provincial inventory systems will be linked. The statistics database will be
maintained and regularly updated as well.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the lending process was rated as satisfactory. The Bank prepared a
sector study to assess the overall current status of the forestry sector and identify the main
constraints and issues. The government fully accepted the study's findings. The project design
followed the study's recommendations and triggered the issues. The Bank team complemented by
FAO technical assistance worked very closely with the Borrower. The stakeholders were
organized to actively participate in intensive discussions and prepared detailed diagnostics of each
of the areas where the project would intervene. Considerable consultation was carried out to
ensure the project's consistency with government policy and strategy.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision was rated as satisfactory. As a consequence of the long implementation
period, three task managers managed the project. The Bank team developed a strong
collaboration with the Borrower. The team's experience and technical quality contributed
substantially to the success of implementation and monitored the progress. On average,
supervision missions were carried out two or three times a year with over 20 supervision missions
in total. The combined knowledge of the Bank team in addressing similar forestry problems in
other countries and situations strengthened, enriched, and helped to guide the project's evolution.
During the financial crisis, the Bank team worked diligently with the PIU to keep the project from
failing. During that period, while counterpart resources were sharply reduced during the crisis
years, the project was one of few Bank-financed projects that made progress and received at least
some government counterpart funding. The FAO-World Bank Cooperative Programme
(FAO-CP) made strong contributions to project supervision as well.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was rated satisfactory, following the above observation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was rated highly satisfactory.

Project preparation was carried out with extensive sharing of ideas with the forestry stakeholders.
The preparation process was enriched by the assistance of FAO-CP and the Bank team, and was
facilitated by Japanese PHRD funding through the Bank. Originally the project was conceived as a
Forestry Sector and Environmental Protection Project, which later was separated into two
projects. One of the two was linked to native forests and protected areas and was executed by the
current Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development, while the other focused on



                                                 - 21 -

forest plantations by SAGPyA.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government implementation performance was rated satisfactory.

In general, the Government of Argentina supported project preparation and implementation. They
gave priority to forestry development and collaborated with all work required by the Bank.
During the crisis years the government provided counterpart funds to the extent possible.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation agency's performance was rated satisfactory.

The PIU was composed of qualified technical professionals and administrative staff. Based on the
number and diversity of programs, subprojects, and activities implemented under the project and
supervised by the PIU, it was highly efficient in its work. The PIU staff demonstrated a high
degree of dedication to their work and during the project's lifetime conducted 13 workshops, and
processed 85 separate contracts, as well as 1,674 small farmer subprojects were reviewed and
approved. It also collaborated with the National General Auditor in project audits, and
incorporated comments received into its operations.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance was rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Project design based on a comprehensive sector review. One important factor contributing to the
project's success was the decision to base the project's design on a comprehensive sector study.
The study included a review of government policy and regulation in the forestry sector,
institutional structure and capacity, research capacity and extension services, plantation
management, and environmental sustainability. The project design aimed to address shortcomings
in these areas, strengthen weaknesses, and mitigate constraints existing in the forestry sector. The
project's success demonstrates the importance of carrying out a sector review to identify issues
and constraints in the early stages of preparation.

Influence of macroeconomic environment. The project was strongly influenced by the
macroeconomic situation. During the financial crisis, the government incentives for plantations
(Law 25.080) were delayed, as were new small farmer projects. On the other hand, forestry
exports increased by 33 percent following the crisis and opportunities for commercial forestry
improved as a result of the currency devaluation. The project found that its progress, outcome
and impact on the sector were closely linked to national economic conditions.

Government support. A key factor in the project's success was good government support. The
government was fully committed to project implementation and maintained a high degree of
involvement in the work, especially in aspects of legal and regulatory reforms. Another important
area of support was the contribution of counterpart funding, especially the agroforestry fund (for
small farmers). During the financial crisis, the government continued to allocate funds to the
extent possible, which contributed to its survival and eventual successful closure.



                                                 - 22 -

Links between the Project and DF. The original design of the project resulted in it reporting directly to the
Subsecretary but without formal links between the project and the DF. The links with the DF should have
been more specific and firmly established from the onset of the project as well. It is felt that this could have
strengthened the institutional capacity building work and overall contribution to the sector through stronger
lines of reporting and consultation with the DF, given its role in the design and implementation of policies
relating to forestry plantations.

Ownership of institutional reform. The project provided support for institutional restructuring and
reform. However, the support was perceived by some as "imposed", motivation for change from
inside the institution (DF, SAGPyA, INASE, etc.) was lacking, and institutional restructuring was
consequently limited.

Use of information. The national inventory system and statistics database were established.
However, the weak policy environment limited the utility of the information and data for planning
purposes. An analysis of information for policy making or planning may be needed for future
inventories.

Approach for carrying out applied research. There were 117 PIA subprojects. The selection of
subproject proposals was supply driven. On one hand, this added to the successful implementation
of the research, but probably limited the chances that the findings would eventually be adopted by
producers. In addition, the review and evaluation of subproject proposals should have included
cost-benefit analyses to increase the economic relevance of the research.

Approach for carrying out the small farmer component. The 1,803 small farmer projects were
carried out in a highly participatory manner. Experienced NGOs provided extension agents
through the project who worked with small farmers to develop technical and operational plans for
agroforestry systems within the social and cultural context of their specific situation. Extension
agents were required to live in the area of intervention; this helped to develop trust between them
and the small farmers over extended periods of time. Once the plans were developed, the PIU
reviewed them for technical soundness and eligibility before submitting them to the Secretariat for
financing.

Approach for carrying out Research. The project made important contributions to forestry
research, largely through INTA. However, future efforts should strive to ensure that research is
more demand driven and opportunities are made for including the widest range of stakeholders in
its implementation.

Sustainability of extension services (NEF). The establishment of the NEFs as a service network
covered the gaps or weaknesses of forestry extension services, especially medium and small
producers. The future operation of NEF could be public, private, or semi-private. To increase the
chances of sustainability, NEFs should be transformed over the medium term to private or
semi-private operations. First, however, a clear policy on forestry extension needs to be
formulated and adopted.

Monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The M&E system should be more specific and complete, and


                                                    - 23 -

have dedicated resources for its implementation and M&E activities should be included in the
Annual Operating Plan (AOP). Its function (discussion, analysis, and feedback) should be
integrated with the participation of all stakeholders. An annual internal and stakeholder workshop
should be conducted with an independent facilitator prior to its inclusion in the AOP.

Project implementation arrangement. The Project did not establish a regional PIU. All
implementation work was carried out by the PIU at national level. However, it could have
benefited from an increased field presence.

Strengthening of provincial DB staff. Provincial institutions are generally weak in Argentina.
Therefore, priority should be given to developing and implementing a strategy to bolster their
capacity.

Design of indicators. It was very difficult for the Bank team and the PIU to measure the impact
indicators designed during project preparation. The design of indicators should be realistic and
measurable and monitoring procedures should be more explicit.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                 - 24 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                             - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:

                                                                            1
 Indicator/Matrix                                       Projected in last PSR   Actual/Latest Estimate

1. Institutional Strengthening Component
1.1 Policies, Laws and Regulations for Plantations
1.1.1 Studies of federal policies, laws & regulations    100                    100
completed; obstacles prioritized; and verified federal
legislation and regulations drafted (%)
1.1.2 Workshop with federal legislators and              3                      3
government officials to discuss draft legislation
completed (No.)
1.1.3 Studies of provincial policies, laws and           100                    100
regulations completed; workshops for consultation with
provinces initiated; and revised provincial legislation
and regulations drafted (%)
1.1.4 Workshop with provincial legislation and           2                      2
governments to discuss importance and implications
of revised draft legislation and regulations (No.)
1.1.5 Study tour participants (no.)
1.1.6 Plan and agenda for approval and                   100                    100
implementation of new policies prepared (%)


1.2 Interinstitutional and Internal Organization,
Personnel Policies, and Skill Upgrading
1.2.1 Proposals for updating SAGPyA's DPF and            80                     80
INASE organizational structure completed (%)
1.2.2 Mid and High-level management courses (No.)        90                     90
1.2.3 High level mangers trained (No.)                   0                      0
1.2.4 Study completed on needed changes of               5                      5
SAGPyA' DPF and INASE personnel policies and
reward system (No.)
1.2.5 Professionals technical staff trained (No.)        105                    105
1.2.6 Mid & low level technical staff trained (No.)      140                    140


1.3 Support for Project Implementation
1.3.1 PIU organized and staffed (%)                      100                    100
1.3.2 PIU staff contracted (No. p/m)                     420                    420
1.3.3 PIU vehicles purchased (No.)                       2                      2
1.3.4 PIU equipment procured (%)                         99                     99
1.3.5 Mid-Term Review (no.)                              1                      1
1.3.6 Implementation completion report (No.)             1                      1


2. Research and Information Generation and
Dissemination Component
2.1 Inventory and Database
2.1.1 Purchase of satellite Images (No.)                 100                    100
2.1.2 Contract Phase I lead firm and 1:1000,000 map      100                    100



                                                       - 26 -

produced (%)
2.1.3 Contract Phase II lead firm (%)
2.1.4 Workshop on inventory methodology completed 1                          1
and inventory manual with agreed methodology
produced (No.)
2.1.6 National and provincial participants trained (%) 100                   100
2.1.7 Initial inventory completed (%)                   100                  100
2.1.8 Map and report produced for follow-up             1                    1
monitoring (No.)
2.1.9 Procurement of vehicles and equipment (%)         95                   95
2.1.10 Database management unit (DMU) formed            1                    1
(No.)
2.1.11 Database lead firm contracted and database       100                  100
management system designed/installed (%)
2.1.12 DMU staff trained in system (No.)                18                   18
2.1.13 Provincial training workshops (%)                7                    7


2.2 Marketing and Grading System
2.2.1 Selection of lead firm and marketing and          75                   75
baseline studies completed (%)
2.2.2 Grading system developed and implementation       50                   50
plan for its promotion developed (%)
2.2.3 On-job training and workshop conducted (No.)
2.2.4 Overseas training tours completed (No.)           0                    0


2.3 Tree Selection and Breeding
2.3.1 Conifer genetic material reviewed, baseline       100                  100
study completed, and breeding program designed (%)
2.3.2 Broadleaf genetic material reviewed, baseline     100                  100
study completed, and breeding program designed (%)
2.3.3 Conifer and broadleaf selection trials installed  100                  100
and monitored (No..)
2.3.4 Laboratory construction or rehabilitation         2                    2
completed (No.)
2.3.5 Vehicles and equipment procured (%)               80                   80
2.3.6 Conifer and eucalypti planting populations        100                  100
developed and progeny trials installed and monitored
(No..)
2.3.7 Training in clonal & other breeding procedures    2                    2
(No.)


2.4 Seedling Improvement & Marketing
2.4.1 Lead firms contracted and seed demand and         100                  100
baseline survey completed
2.4.2 vehicles and equipment procured (%)               10                   10
2.4.3 Work program for certify seed and nursery stock 1                      1
designed (No.)
2.4.4 Demonstration nurseries established (No.)         Activity cancelled


2.5 Plantation management Research & Extension
2.5.1 Research trials established and monitored (%)     100                  100

                                                      - 27 -

2.5.2 Subject matter specialists hired and trained (No.) 13                   13
2.5.3 Forest management training completed (%)           100                  100
2.5.4 Vehicle procured (%)                               100                  100


2.6 Patagonia Regional
2.6.1 Lead firm contracted and studies completed (%) 100                      100
2.6.2 Workshop completed (No.)                           1                    1


3. Small Farmer Component
3.1 Baseline study completed (No.)                       1                    1
3.2 Research consultant hired and research program       100                  100
designed (%)
3.3 Research trials established and monitored (%)        100                  100
3.4 Vehicle and equipment procured (%)                   100                  100
3.5 Staff training completed (%)                         100                  100
3.6 Extension services provided (%)                      99                   99
3.7 Teachers trained and environmental education         Activity cancelled
campaign completed (%)




                                                       - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 2a. Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                              Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal (%)
                        Component                           US$ million    US$ million
Institutional Strengthening                                            3.0            4.03 134.3
 (a) General Strengthening                                             2.2            2.81 127.7
 (b) Policy Studies                                                    0.8            1.22 1.53
Research and Information Generation and                               13.2          11.46  86.8
Dissemination
 (a) Inventory and Database                                            3.0            3.45 115.0
 (b) Markets and Grading                                               0.6            0.48 80.0
 (c) Tree Breeding                                                     2.6            1.96 75.4
 (d) Seedling Improvement                                              1.8            0.37 20.5
 (e) Plantation Management                                             4.2            4.47 106.4
 (f) Patagonia Region                                                  1.0            0.73 73.0
Small Farmers                                                          7.2            2.67 37.1

 Total Baseline Cost                                            23.4           18.16
 Contingencies                                                    2.8
                                      Total Project Costs             26.2          18.16  69.3
                               Total Financing Required               26.2



Table 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)

                                                                       1
                                                Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category           ICB
                                                    NCB                  2
                                                                   Other          N.B.F.    Total Cost

1. Civil Works


 1.1 Rehabilitation of              0.00             0.00            0.00          0.30          0.30
laboratories
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods


 2.1 Vehicles                       0.00             0.00            1.50          0.00      1.50
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.90)        (0.00)    (0.90)
 2.2 Equipment                      0.00             0.00            1.40          0.00      1.40
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.80)        (0.00)    (0.80)
 2.3 Remote Images                  0.00             0.00            0.60          0.00      0.60
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.30)        (0.00)    (0.30)
 2.4 Materials & Supplies           0.00             0.00            0.00          0.60          0.60
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Consulting Services/1


 3.1 Studies/Research               0.00             0.00            4.30          0.00      4.30




                                                - 29 -

                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (4.30)        (0.00)  (4.30)
 3.2 Technical Assistance            0.00        0.00          4.80          0.00    4.80
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (4.80)        (0.00)  (4.80)
 3.3 Training                        0.00        0.00          1.00          0.00    1.00
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (1.00)        (0.00)  (1.00)
 3.4 Project Management              0.00        0.00          1.10          0.00        1.10
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (1.10)        (0.00)      (1.10)
4. Other Expenditures


4.1 PIU & Other Recurrent            0.00        0.00          0.00          3.20    3.20
Costs
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.20)  (3.20)
 4.2 Workshops                       0.00        0.00          0.30          0.00    0.30
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.20)        (0.00)  (0.20)
 4.3 Training programs               0.00        0.00          1.60          0.00    1.60
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.90)        (0.00)  (0.90)
 4.4 Research activities             0.00        0.00          3.00          0.00    3.00
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (1.70)        (0.00)  (1.70)
 4.5 Agroforestry Fund               0.00        0.00          0.00          2.50    2.50
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)  (0.00)
   Total Costs                       0.00        0.00          19.60         6.60    26.20
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (16.00)       (0.00)  (16.00)
/1 Service includes TA and consultants.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                  1
                                             Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB
                                                NCB                 2
                                                              Other         N.B.F.  Total Cost

1. Civil Works


 1.1 Rehabilitation of               0.00        0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
laboratories
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods


 2.1 Vehicles                        0.91        0.00          0.00          0.00    0.91
                                    (0.62)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)  (0.62)
 2.2 Equipment                       0.00        1.42          0.00          0.00    1.42
                                    (0.00)      (0.99)        (0.00)        (0.00)  (0.99)
 2.3 Remote Images                   0.00        0.86          0.00          0.00    0.86
                                    (0.00)      (0.61)        (0.00)        (0.00)  (0.61)
 2.4 Materials & Supplies            0.00        0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Consulting Services/1


 3.1 Studies/Research                0.00        0.00          4.68          0.00    4.68
                                    (0.00)      (0.00)        (3.70)        (0.00)  (3.70)



                                             - 30 -

3.2 Technical Assistance        0.00             0.00          5.22              0.00         5.22
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (4.95)            (0.00)      (4.95)
3.3 Training                    0.00             0.00          0.84              0.00        0.84
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.84)            (0.00)      (0.84)
3.4 Project Management          0.00             0.00          0.00              0.00             0.00
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Other Expenditures


4.1 PIU & Other Recurrent       0.00             0.00          0.00              1.74         1.74
Costs
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)
4.2 Workshops                   0.00             0.00          0.00              0.00         0.00
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)
4.3 Training programs           0.00             0.00          0.72              0.00         0.72
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.72)            (0.00)      (0.72)
4.4 Research activities         0.00             0.00          1.28              0.00         1.28
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.90)            (0.00)      (0.90)
4.5 Agroforestry Fund           0.00             0.00          0.00              0.49         0.49
                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total Costs                  0.91             2.28         12.74              2.23        18.16
                               (0.62)           (1.60)       (11.11)            (0.00)      (13.33)



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                    Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
                                    Bank          Govt.    Bank          Govt.       Bank         Govt.

 Institutional Strengthening         2.1          0.9      2.64          1.39        127          154
  (a) General Strengthening          1.5          0.7      1.93          0.87        129          124
  (b) Policy Studies                 0.6          0.2      0.71          0.52        118          260
 Research and Information            9.0          4.2      9.09          2.37        101           56
 Generation and Dissemination
  (a) Inventory and Database         2.3          0.7      3.25          0.21        141           30
  (b) Markets and Grading            0.4          0.2      0.38          0.10         95           50
  (c) Tree Breeding                  1.5          1.1      1.20          0.75         80           68
  (d) Seedling Improvement           1.5          0.3      0.35          0.01         23            3
  (e) Plantation Management          2.6          1.6      3.18          1.29        122           80
  (f) Patagonia Region               0.7          0.3      0.73          0.01        104            3
 Small Farmers                       3.2          4.0      1.60          1.07         50           27
                                     14.3         9.1     13.33          4.83         94           53
 Total Baseline Cost
                                     1.7          1.1
 Contingencies
                                     16.0         10.2    13.33          4.83         83           47
 Total Financing




                                            - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Internal Rate of Return (ERR):

The estimation of ERR for the component C, small farmers, was carried out by a consultant
contracted by the PIU. The results were estimated by using FARMOD based on actual data
collected in the field. The project supported small farmers in two aspects, technical assistance,
which provided extension services to adopt the results of applied research, and financial
assistance, which provided grant through the agro-forestry fund established under the project.
The small farmers and forest-plantation producers improved their plantation management by
adopting new technologies and management skills. The estimation evaluated the component's
economic and financial viability.

During project preparation, an estimation of ERR was not carried out. However, the post-project
models estimated with actual data compared the changes in yield, costs and income with and
without the project. The data and information used in the analyses were received during on-site
interviews with producers, and were found to be consistent with collateral data the technician had
for each of the areas.

Data were collected in four provinces/regions, Misiones, Chaco/Formosa, Yungas de Salta, and
Neuquen. And each province/region has different models, which were discussed below.

Main assumptions. In the models, the financial prices of production inputs were based on
prevailing market prices for August 2005, while prices of products were the average prices
received by the producers (without VAT) during 2002-2004. The investment costs were
calculated using validated prices from August 2005 (without VAT). The wage rate of family
labor per day was AR$30. The average costs of technical assistance (TA) services per day varied
between AR$50 for Misiones, AR$75 for Chaco and Formosa, AR$ 100 for Yungas de Salta, and
AR120 for Neuquen.

For economic prices, the input prices were 83% of financial prices viable in the market in August
2005 given that the economic prices were excluded the VAT of 21%. The investment costs were
the same as the financial prices, which excluded VAT. The output prices were the same as the
financial prices as no VAT was included. The wage rate of family labor was equal to 50% of the
financial wage rate given that the market real average wage only reach to AR$15. For pricing
TA, the economic prices were equal to 40-60% of the financial prices according to the prevailing
situation in each investment areas (60% for Misiones and Neuquen and 40% for the other two
areas).

Year 2005 prices were used in the analysis. However, in evaluating the total costs of the project,
some adjustments had to be made for the investments and TA incurred during 1998-2001 has to
be multiplied by 3 (the currency was devaluated started in 2001), while the costs incurred during
2002-2005 are actual. The discount rate of 12% was applied in the cash flow estimation. The
time length was 35 years, with actual data covering the time span from 1998 to 2005, and the rest
of years based on projections.



                                               - 32 -

For estimation of the economic rate of return, the subsidy from the project received by the
producers was not considered as part of income, nor counted the income tax payment.

The farm models.

The farm models developed included two or three activities, agriculture (crops), livestock, and
forestry. The production patterns in four provinces were different based on local conditions
(rainfall, soil, temperature, etc.) and traditional production practices.

The principle of determining technical coefficients.

The average production and the technical coefficients of the farming per hectare and per livestock
unit have been based on the data supplied by the coordinator and the technicians in the areas.
These data were corroborated through interviews during field visits. The natural pasture and
Capueras (areas of secondary growth following forest clearing) were not counted in the total
production, nor counted in the total costs.

It is important to mention that the farming activities selected were only one part of the variety of
activities carried out by producers. The producers also cultivated other crops for family
consumption (cassava, pumpkin, sweet potato, etc) and raised other animals (chicken, pig, etc).

Therefore, these activities have been selected as representative for each group, for simplifying the
visualization of the impacts, and as they are significant in economic terms to the producers.

The models.

In the province of Misiones, the project included 830 producers during 1998-2005. The total
land area of 17,845 hectares was used for crops, livestock and forest. The production pattern
changed with the project as follows: (i) without the project the land of 2.5 hectares were covered
by "Capuera" ; (ii) in the project's first year, the producers established pine agro-silvo-pastoral
systems on the same 2.5 hectares of land; (iii) in the project years 2 and 3, the producers practiced
intercropping of burley tobacco in pine agro-silvo-pastoral systems; and (iv) from year 5 onward
the producers incorporated sheep herding with the plantations in order to increase livestock
activities from 80% up to 100%.

The production inputs included bags, pine tree seedlings, chemicals, fertilizer, barbed wire,
straight wire, posts, turnstile pins, saw, calves, electric wire, pasture seed, and other investment
items. Inputs also included family labor (producer) and technical assistance (TA) during the first
ten years. The production models were: (i) agriculture: herb mate, tobacco burley; (ii) livestock:
animal and poultry equivalent to 10 cows, forage and natural pasture; and (iii) forestry: in
over-harvested areas of native vegetation, pine plantations, and pine agro-silvo-pastoral systems.

In the province of Chaco and Fomosa, the project included 340 producers with a total land area
of 6,290 hectares, and as in Misiones, lands were used for crop cultivation, livestock, and
forestry. The production pattern changed with the project as follows: (i) without the project, an



                                                  - 33 -

area of 0.5 hectares of land was used to plant low-yield cotton; (ii) in the project's first year the
producers established Prosopis tree silvo-pastoral systems on the same 0.5 hectare of land, and
carried out enrichment plantings on one hectare of degraded land; and (iii) from project year 5
onward the producers incorporated sheep herding with the plantations to increase the livestock
activities from 80% up to 100%.

The production inputs included bags, cotton plants, native tree seedlings, fruit tree seedlings,
chemicals, fabric wire, electric wire, pasture seed, straight wire, posts, turnstile, pins, and other
investment items. Family labor and TA (in first ten years) were also included in the costs. The
production models were: (i) agriculture: cotton and low-yield cotton; (ii) livestock: animal and
poultry equivalent to 10 cows, and natural pasture; and (iii) forestry: in over-harvested areas of
native vegetation; on degraded lands and Prosopis silvo-pastoral systems.

In the province of Yungas de Salta, the project included 220 producers with total land areas of
484 hectares, which were used for crop cultivation, livestock, and forestry. The production
pattern changed with the project as follows: (i) without the project, 0.1 hectare of land was in
fallow; (ii) during the project's first year, the producers planted Cedrela on the 0.1 hectare of
land, carried out enrichment plantings of 0.1 hectare in degraded native vegetation and planted
trees in rows (200 meters length) for windbreaks and to delineate their boundaries; and (iii) in the
first year, the producers also planted green cover crops (green manure) on the fallow land.

The production inputs included Cedrela tree seedlings, native tree seedlings, seedlings for the
windbreaks and boundaries, fruit tree seedlings, disking, electric wire, seeds for cover crops,
straight wire, barded wire, posts, turnstile, pins, and other investment items. Family labor and TA
(in first ten years) were also included in the costs. The production models were: (i) agriculture:
corn-pumpkin, tomato, and fallow land; and (ii) forestry: in over-harvested native vegetation, on
degraded lands, and Cedrela plantations.

In the province of Neuquen, the project included 210 producers with total land areas of 105,000
hectares, which were used for pasture, crops and forest. The production pattern changed with the
project as follows: (i) without the project, one hectare of land was used for growing winter
pasture; (ii) in the project's first year, the producers planted pine trees on the same one hectare of
land and 500 poplar trees for windbreaks and along boundaries of irrigated pasture; and (iii) also
in the first year, the producers incorporated 0.7 hectares of alfalfa pasture and oats on irrigated
pasture land.

The production inputs included pine tree seedlings, poplar tree seedlings, electric wire, alfalfa and
oat seed, straight wire, barded wire, posts, bar, turnstile, pins, and other investment items. Family
labor and TA (in first ten years) were also included in the costs. The production models included:
(i) livestock: 5 horses, 10 cows, 1 bull, 2 calves, and 200 goats, alfalfa-oat, summer pasture,
winter pasture, and irrigated pasture; and (ii) forest: pine plantations.

The estimated results.

The economic internal rate of return (ERR) was only estimated for the project as a whole, and for



                                                   - 34 -

each province. The results estimated are listed in the table following:

                    Economic Rate     Net Present Value Total Incremental    Annual
                    of Return (ERR) (NPV) (AR$)         Income for 35        Incremental
                    (%)                                 Years (AR$)          Income (AR$)
Total Component C           28.8          7,969,648          135,300,000          3,865,710
Misiones                    41.6          7,909,640          114,398,650          3,268,400
Agriculture                                                  20,584,000           588,000
Livestock                                                    21,417,900           611,900
Forestry                                                     72,396,750           2,068,500
Chaco/Formosa               10.4           -109,524           6,894,610           197,000
Agriculture                                                   -1,400,360          -40,000
Livestock                                                     5,270,720           150,600
Forestry                                                      3,024,250            86,400
Yungas de Salta             7.4            -194,595           3,961,136           113,174
Agriculture                                                   3,038,729            86,820
Forestry                                                       922,407             26,354
Neuquén                     18.7           364,128            8,460,190           241,720
Livestock (forage)                                            7,933,090           226,660
Forestry                                                       527,100             15,060


The estimation of ERR for the whole Component C was based on the activities engaged by total
1,600 small producers on 2,477 hectares of land with new production pattern of pine, Prosopis,
and Cedrela, and enriched 362 hectares of degraded or over-harvested native vegetation.

The total value of investment costs of the 2,477 hectares of new production systems and
additional activities carried out by producers is about AR$13.7 millions (AR$5.5 millions from
subproject subsidy, AR$8.1 millions from producers contribution, and AR$0.1 from provincial
subsidies). This investment will result in an increase in the total value of production of about
AR$135.8 million over a period of 35 years. About 57% of this incremental production value will
correspond to forest products (AR$77.3 millions), 27% to livestock and forage products
(AR$35.8 millions), and 16% to agriculture production (AR$22.2 millions). This incremental
production value represents a significant contribution to the national and provincial gross income,
equivalent to an increase of AR$ 3.9 million or 17% of current gross value of production (BIP) in
the project's areas of intervention.

From the results, it can be concluded that the Small Farmer component as whole was
economically viable, given that the investment generated net present value (NPV) of AR$8
millions, and ERR reached to 29%. However, the ERR for Chaco/Formosa and Yugas de Salta,
the ERRs were below the discount rate of 12% (10.4% and 7.4% respectively), which implied
they were not economically viable. In Chaco/Formosa, the main explanation for the low ERR was
that the agricultural production yielded negative income, mainly cotton production contributed to
this, which had a negative increase of 20%. The unfavorable climate (drought) seriously affects
agricultural production, especially for crops. In Yungas de Salta, with an average land holding
per family of only 2.2 ha, it would be difficult to support systems which include agriculture,
livestock, and forestry. The livestock production in the province was not very profitable, and



                                                 - 35 -

could not compensate for forestry activities that generate income at slower rates over longer
periods of time.

Financial rate of return

The financial rate of return was estimated by different type of crop models in each province as
shown in the following table:

                                 Financial  Net Present    Total            Annual
          Farm Model             FRR (%)                   Incremental      Incremental
                                            Value US$)     Income for 35    Incomes (AR$)
                                                           years (AR$)
Misiones small producer (22 ha):    85.3        23,864         139,925           3,998
Agriculture                                                     24,800            709
Livestock                                                       27,900            797
Forestry                                                        87,225           2,492
Chaco/Formosa small producer        28.5        2,888           27,710            620
(20 ha):
Agriculture                                                     -4,550           -130
Livestock                                                       17,360            496
Forestry                                                        8,900             254
Yungas de Salta small producer      28.9        2,214           20,024            572
(2.2 ha):
Agriculture                                                     15,859            453
Forestry                                                        4,166             119
Neuquen small producer(500 ha):     155         11,041          76,966           2,199
Livestock (forage)                                              55,986           1,600
Forestry                                                        20,980            599


From the results shown in the table above, all FRRs were viable, which means that the farmers or
producers profited from the project's interventions. In general, livestock generated higher income
than agricultural and forest activities except in the case of Misiones, where forestry generated the
highest income because pine trees has higher market value than other species (Prosopis and
Cedrela) planted under the project. The explanation of the high FRRs of the small producer
model was that the available and actual family labor in the production was not included in the
investment costs, nor included in operation costs. In addition, the subsidy was counted as part of
income, in Misiones, the subsidy (per farm) from the project was AR$3,100, in Chaco/Formosa it
was AR$3,150, in Yungas de Salta it was AR$3,900, and in Neuquenl AR$4,540 was from the
project and AR$630 was from the provincial government.

The results of a one-hectare model for the systems all provinces shown below are financially
viable. However, the FRRs are significantly different when family labor costs are included, which
implies that the opportunity cost of labor is high in all areas except in Neuquen.

Model                           Financial   Net Present
                                FRR (%)
                                            Value US$)



                                                 - 36 -

Misiones:
Pine Agro-silvo-pastoral with        19.6   2,087
family labor
Pine Agro-silvo-pastoral without     48.7   5,046
family labor
Chaco y Formosa:
Prosopis Silvo-pastoral with family  19.0    785
labor
Prosopis Silvo-pastoral without      34.2   1,565
family labor
Yungas de Salta:
Cedrela forestry with family labor   12.8    330
Cedrela forestry without family      28.4   4,027
labor
Neuquen:
Pine forestry with family labor      12.2    30
Pine forestry without family labor   15.5    342




                                             - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/04/94                 3    TEAM
                                            LEADER/ECONOMIST (1);
                                            SR. FORESTRY SPECIALI
                                            (1); SR. INSTITUTIONS
                                            SPECIALI (1)

 Supervision

              12/06/1996               1    FORESTRY (1)                     S               S
              04/25/1997               1    FORESTRY (1)                     S               S
              11/26/1997               2    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                            FORESTRY/INVENTORY (1)
              04/02/1998               2    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                            FORESTRY/INVENTORY (1)
              06/08/1999               2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                            (1)
              09/24/1999               2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                            (1)
              06/07/2000               2    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.             S               S
                                            ENVIRONM. SPECIALI (1)
              10/13/2000               2    TEAM LEADER (1); FAO ENV.        S               S
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              04/04/2001               2    TEAM LEADER (1); ENV.            S               S
                                            SPECIALIST FAO/CP (1)
              10/18/2001               3    TEAM LEADER/FORESTER             S               S
                                            (1); FORESTRY FAO/CP (1);
                                            FORESTRY FAO (1)
              06/21/2002               3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                            PROTECTED AREAS (1);
                                            FOREST MANAGEMENT (1)
              11/15/2002               6    TEAM LEADER (1); FOREST          S               S
                                            PLANTATIONS (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT ASST. (1);
                                            FM ANALYST (1); FOREST
                                            MANAGEMENT (1)
              04/11/2003               5    TM (1); FOREST                   S               S
                                            DEVELOPMENT (1); FMA (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1); FAO CP
                                            FOREST MGT. (1)
              07/18/2003               2    TTL AND FORESTRY (1);            S               S
                                            FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
                                            (1)



                                             - 38 -

               11/18/2003              6    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            INSTITUTIONS/FOR.DEV (1);
                                            FOREST MANAGEMENT (1);
                                            FMA (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            TEAM ASST. (1)
               04/11/2004              5    TTL (1); PLANTATIONS (1);         S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
                                            (1); INVENTORY SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
               11/05/2004              4    TM (1); INDICATORS,               S    S
                                            PLANTATION (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1); FORESTRY
                                            DEVELOPMENT (1)
               01/02/2005              6    TTL (1); PLANTATIONS (1);         S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
                                            (1);FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1),
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
               09/26/2005              4    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT (1);         S    S
                                            FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
                                            (1);FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1),
                                            ECONOMIST (1)

 ICR
               06/06/2006             4     TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL SP. (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                146.9                         597.8
  Supervision                           93.6                         758.1
  ICR                                     4.3                          30.0
  Total                                344.9                          1581




                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Gnecco, Francisco. 2006. Proyecto Forestal de Desarrollo, SAGPYA-BIRF 3948A-AR,
Implementation Completion Report, Informe del Prestatario. SAGPyA. Buenos Aires.

Norberto, Carlos. 2005. Proyecto Forestal. Una Bibliografía de Experiencias e Investigaciones del
Proyecto Forestal de Desarrollo, 1996-2004. Buenos Aires.

Norberto, Carlos. 2005. Mejores Arboles para mas Forestadores. Proyecto Forestal de Desarrollo. INTA.
SAGPyA. Buenos Aires.

SAGPyA. 1996. Plan de Desarrollo Forestal. Republica Argentina. Buenos Aires.

STCP Engenheria de Projetes. 2004. Evaluación de cumplimiento de los objetivos inicialmente trazados del
Proyecto Forestal del Desarrollo. Evaluación Componente A, Fortalecimiento Institucional y Componente
B, Generación y Diseminación de Investigaciones e Información. Buenos Aires.

Wood, Guillermo. 2005. Evaluación Económica del Componente C del Proyecto Forestal de Desarrollo
(PFD). Proyecto Forestal de Desarrollo. SAGPyA. Buenos Aires.

The World Bank. 1995. Forestry Development Project. Staff Appraisal Report. Washington, DC.

The World Bank. 1996. Loan Agreement, Forestry Development Project, between the Argentine Republic
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Washington, DC.




                                                  - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report


 I. EVALUACIÓN DEL DESARROLLO Y DISEÑO DE LOS OBJETIVOS

 1. Objetivo original

 El objetivo general del proyecto fue el de consolidar un marco subsectorial que mejore y potencie los
 instrumentos públicos y privados de tipo institucional, tecnológico y normativo con criterios
 ambientalmente sanos, a efectos de ampliar el desarrollo de modelos productivos competitivos.

 El objetivo general ha sido planteado teniendo en cuenta las limitaciones y debilidades identificadas en el
 sector forestal en el ámbito de las plantaciones forestales en relación al amplio potencial del mismo para
 su desarrollo. En este sentido, la falta de conocimiento y tecnologías apropiadas para la producción
 forestal, la escasa difusión y promoción de las actividades forestales, la debilidad en general del marco
 legal forestal, la limitada capacidad institucional en la formulación y ejecución de políticas y estrategias
 de desarrollo y la falta de conciencia en relación a un manejo sostenible de los recursos forestales
 reflejaron la orientación y contenido de los objetivos.

 El Proyecto abordó la meta de incrementar la solvencia sectorial en su capacidad de producir
 conocimiento científico y tecnológico así como de obtener acceso al mismo y adaptarlo, lo cual es de
 suma importancia para el desarrollo sostenible del sector.

 Los objetivos se ajustaron a la orientación de las políticas nacionales dirigidas a ampliar la superficie
 forestada y promover las inversiones industriales, favorecer la conservación y el manejo sostenible de
 los recursos naturales y promover modelos productivos eficientes generadores de riqueza e incentivar la
 exportación de productos de madera.

 Los lineamientos establecidos son consistentes con las estrategias de intervención definidas por el Banco
 Mundial en relación a las plantaciones forestales, reconociendo el rol de las plantaciones forestales en el
 desarrollo social y económicamente sostenible y en la reducción de la pobreza.

 2. Objetivos específicos

 Fortalecimiento institucional: en relación al desarrollo institucional del sector forestal relativo a los
 bosques cultivados el objetivo fue el de analizar y fortalecer acciones orientadas al diseño de políticas y
 adecuación del marco regulatorio y normativo vinculado a las plantaciones forestales y la industria de
 procesamiento de la madera e identificar y contribuir a desarrollar las capacidades institucionales
 prioritarias de las instituciones involucradas en la implementación del Proyecto: Dirección de
 Forestación, Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria (INTA) e Instituto Nacional de Semillas
 (INASE).

 Generación y diseminación de investigaciones e información: para aumentar la capacidad de producir
 conocimiento y transferirlo los objetivos fueron: apoyar acciones destinadas a generar y difundir
 información valiosa para el público en el área de plantaciones forestales comerciales e industrias de
 procesamiento de la madera, realizar un inventario forestal nacional y generar una base de datos
 actualizada sobre plantaciones forestales; llevar a cabo estudios para identificar los mercados de
 exportación de madera aserrada y desarrollar sistemas adecuados de clasificación de calidad para



                                                    - 43 -

maderas; ejecutar un programa de mejoramiento genético y comercialización de plántulas que incluya un
programa de certificación de semillas; desarrollar un programa de investigaciones y extensión en el
manejo sostenible de plantaciones forestales y llevar a cabo un análisis del proceso de desertificación en
la región patagónica que determine propuestas de acción para su tratamiento.

Apoyo a pequeños productores para la conservación ambiental: a los efectos de contribuir al desarrollo
sostenible en areas degradadas los objetivos fueron: apoyar acciones productivas sostenibles en áreas
piloto que presenten ecosistemas frágiles con cierto grado de degradación ambiental, protegiendo áreas
de bosques nativos (Areas de Localización); desarrollar en dichas áreas estrategias de transferencia de
tecnología sostenible para pequeños productores y facilitar los recursos financieros necesarios para su
implementación y promover la sensibilización de los valores ambientales reconociendo su gravitación en
el manejo forestal sostenible.

3. Componentes originales

Fortalecimiento institucional: en este componente se incluye el estudio, análisis y revisión de políticas y
marco legal del subsector de plantaciones forestales, la revisión y adaptación de estructuras
organizacionales y relaciones interinstitucionales y actividades de capacitación y entrenamiento de
instituciones del sector.

Generación y diseminación de investigaciones e información: este componente comprende la realización
de un inventario nacional de bosques cultivados y establecimiento de una base de datos, el desarrollo de
sistemas de tipificación de maderas y la exploración de mercados forestales, el desarrollo de un
programa de mejoramiento genético, el desarrollo de un sistema de certificación de semillas forestales, el
desarrollo de programas de investigación y extensión forestal y capacitación técnica y el desarrollo de un
estudio comprensivo para el control de la desertificación en la Patagonia.

Apoyo a pequeños productores para la conservación ambiental: el componente incluye la
implementación de programas de experimentación adaptativa y programas de transferencia de tecnología
para pequeños productores, la realización de campañas de educación ambiental y el establecimiento de
un fondo forestal que facilite la adopción de nuevas tecnologías por parte del pequeño productor.

4. Componentes modificados. No hubo modificaciones. Solamente hubo una modificación en la
asignación presupuestaria para cada uno de los componentes; este ajuste fue llevado a cabo mediante
una enmienda al convenio de préstamo realizada en enero de 1999.

5. Calidad a la fecha de entrada

La calidad global de entrada es calificada como altamente satisfactoria. El trabajo de preparación
realizado en base a diagnósticos previos sectoriales y específicos para cada área de intervención del
Proyecto permitió identificar correctamente los principales puntos y prioridades en el desarrollo del
subsector de los bosques cultivados. También contribuyó en gran medida a lo señalado en el párrafo
anterior, la intensa participación de los actores vinculados en la discusión y análisis de propuestas de
acción. El equipo del Banco en base a su capacidad técnica y experiencia internacional, realizó por su
parte un aporte significativo en la identificación de los componentes y objetivos. Por otra parte los
componentes y objetivos fueron dispuestos con la flexibilidad suficiente como para poder ser ajustados y
adaptados en su implementación. Los componentes del Proyecto fueron diseñados correctamente, con
una asignación de fondos acorde a la gravitación y necesidades dentro de cada uno de los ejes de
intervención.


                                                  - 44 -

II. LOGRO DE LOS OBJETIVOS Y RESULTADOS

1. Logro de los objetivos

a) Objetivo General: Satisfactorio.

El Proyecto ha contribuido en gran medida al ajuste y modernización del marco legal del sector en
sintonía con las políticas forestales definidas, orientadas a incrementar la superficie forestada en el país,
promoviendo un manejo forestal sostenible. La normativa generada ha establecido una base para
favorecer el desarrollo del potencial forestal e industrial del país.

Ha sido generada una gran cantidad de información de base y conocimientos tecnológicos de directa
aplicación en el manejo forestal sostenible en prácticamente todas las áreas de la producción forestal.
Por otra parte fue implementado satisfactoriamente un modelo de extensión forestal con el objeto de
transferir el conocimiento e informaciones a los usuarios.

El Proyecto apoyó en forma significativa el fortalecimiento de instituciones vinculadas al sector como la
Dirección de Forestación, el Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria (INTA), Universidades,
ONGs, Consorcios forestales y el CIEFAP (Centro de Investigaciones y Experiencias Forestales Andino
Patagónico), contribuyendo la conformación de grupos de investigación, proveyendo equipos y
apoyando actividades de entrenamiento y capacitación.

A través de programas de extensión y transferencia de tecnología (PE&TT) para pequeños productores,
el Proyecto contribuyó a la protección de los bosques nativos en áreas piloto (Areas de Localización)
con ecosistemas frágiles, generalmente próximas a áreas protegidas, facilitando y difundiendo técnicas
productivas basadas en un manejo sostenible del los recursos, favoreciendo la restauración de los
ecosistemas degradados y generando incrementos en los ingresos de los beneficiarios.

Costo general: el costo total real ejecutado ( U$S 18,2 millones ) corresponde al 70% del monto total
estimado previamente para la ejecución del Proyecto (U$S 26 millones). El costo total real ejecutado con
aportes del préstamo ( U$S 13,3 millones) representa el 83 % del total estimado ( U$S 16 millones ).
En términos generales la sub-ejecución del Proyecto puede ser vinculada principalmente a los siguientes
factores:
a)   Por un lado la devaluación que tuvo lugar en diciembre de 2001 ya que las estimaciones y los
montos ejecutados indicados se refieren a la moneda estadounidense;
b)   las limitaciones presupuestarias establecidas (principalmente luego de la crisis de diciembre de
2001); las limitaciones incidieron tanto en contrataciones como en las asignaciones requeridas para el
desarrollo de programas. En este sentido cabe resaltar que la cantidad de extensionistas afectados al
Componente de Apoyo a Pequeños Productores para la Conservación Ambiental (CAPPCA) durante la
ejecución del Proyecto fue siempre menor a la estimada; consecuentemente se generó una cantidad de
Proyectos Prediales para la Conservación y la Producción (PPCPs) menor a la planteada originalmente
y por lo tanto fue ejecutado un monto de fondos locales agroforestales muy inferior al estimado. En este
componente tampoco fueron realizadas las Campañas de Educación Ambiental;
c)   ciertas actividades que por distintas razones dejaron de ser pertinentes: en el Subcomponente de
Mejora de los Procesos de Producción de Plantines y su Comercialización, no fueron instalados los
módulos demostrativos previstos por dejar de ser relevantes.




                                                   - 45 -

b) Objetivos específicos

Fortalecimiento Institucional: Satisfactorio.

- Políticas, leyes y regulaciones. El Proyecto contribuyó a generar un marco favorable para las
inversiones forestales mediante la modernización del marco legal del subsector y a través de la
elaboración de una serie de leyes y normas orientadas a incrementar la superficie forestada,
promoviendo las inversiones industriales, garantizando la estabilidad fiscal y facilitando las inversiones
a través del "derecho real de superficie." El Proyecto profundizó las posibilidades estratégicas del
subsector mediante el apoyo y seguimiento institucional de los Convenios sobre Biodiversidad y Cambio
Climático Global y el Proceso de Montreal. Promovió también el análisis estratégico del potencial
argentino para incorporarse al mercado de servicios ambientales, a través de la venta de carbono fijado
en sumideros de bosques cultivados.

- Organización interna e interinstitucional. El Proyecto contribuyó a mejorar la capacidad de gestión de
la Dirección de Forestación, la adecuación de su estructura organizacional, la capacitación técnica y
administrativa, la difusión de sus actividades y proveyó el equipamiento necesario para su
funcionamiento. La falta de una mayor integración política dentro de la SAGPyA, limitó los resultados
de esta línea de acción.

- Apoyo a la Implementación del Proyecto. La Unidad de Implementación del Proyecto (UDI), realizó
satisfactoriamente la gestión, evaluación, seguimiento y monitoreo de todas las actividades del Proyecto,
interactuando con las organizaciones y entidades involucradas en la ejecución. También identificó las
posibles líneas de acción de una segunda fase del Proyecto.

Generación y Diseminación de Investigaciones e Información: Altamente satisfactorio

- Inventario Nacional de Plantaciones Forestales y Base de Datos. El Proyecto aportó sustantivamente a
mejorar la base de datos e información actualizada de los bosques cultivados en la Argentina a través de
la realización del primer inventario nacional de plantaciones forestales, con información de la superficie
forestada y volumen de madera por grupos de especies y por provincia o región; la información fue
establecida en una base de datos. La información producida es de alta relevancia para la planificación
estratégica sectorial.

- Sistemas de Comercialización y Clasificación de Maderas. El Proyecto ha contribuido a un mejor
conocimiento de los mercados forestales, a la exploración de mercados internacionales y a la
sistematización y tipificación de la madera de uso comercial. El Proyecto apoyó la realización de
estudios de mercado, promovió actividades tendientes a la exploración de mercados en el exterior y
facilitó la difusión de estadísticas y datos relativos al mercado forestal. Por otra parte, contribuyó a la
elaboración de las normas de clasificación para madera aserrada y las normas para utilización de la
madera en viviendas.

- Selección y Mejoramiento de Arboles. A través del Proyecto ha sido implementado y ejecutado con
éxito un Programa que ha contribuido de modo significativo a la consolidación de un sistema nacional
de producción de semillas y clones de alta calidad, con énfasis en los caracteres de crecimiento y forma,
para las especies de mayor relevancia regional.

- Mejora de los procesos de producción de plantines forestales y su comercialización. El Proyecto ha
realizado un aporte sustancial a la organización y mejora del sistema nacional de producción de semillas


                                                   - 46 -

forestales; en primer lugar generó un diagnóstico del estado de situación de la producción de semillas y
plantines forestales que permitió desarrollar una propuesta para un sistema de certificación de fuentes
semilleras en el país; finalmente facilitó la elaboración, diseño e implementación de las normas para la
certificación, producción , comercialización e importación de semillas de especies forestales.

- Investigación y Extensión en Manejo de Plantaciones. El Proyecto realizó un gran aporte para la
generación y transferencia de información forestal. En base a una definición de líneas temáticas
prioritarias seleccionadas mediante un proceso participativo en cada región del país y por medio de una
estrategia tendiente a promover la asociación de organizaciones tanto privadas como públicas, el
Proyecto implementó los Proyectos de Investigación Aplicada (PIAs). La ejecución de los PIAs ha
contribuido en gran medida a la generación de información de base y conocimientos directamente
aplicables a la producción forestal sostenible, promoviendo la conformación de grupos de investigación
en temáticas específicas.
El Proyecto implementó también un sistema de extensión forestal articulado a través de Núcleos de
Extensión Forestal (NEF), proveyendo la capacitación técnica de los agentes responsables de los NEF.
El Proyecto fortaleció la capacidad técnica de instituciones como INTA mediante la capacitación en el
exterior de técnicos del INTA en áreas estratégicas. Por otra parte y mediante la realización de
seminarios, talleres y la edición de numerosas publicaciones ha contribuido a la difusión y diseminación
de información forestal.

- Desertificación en Patagonia. El Proyecto ha contribuido a profundizar y definir posibles líneas de
acción en relación a la problemática del control de la Desertificación en la Patagonia, proporcionando
un conjunto de estudios técnicos, recopilando el estado de conocimientos en la materia y analizando
tecnologías viables para el control y la prevención de la desertificación.

Apoyo a Pequeños Productores para la Conservación Ambiental (CAPPCA): Altamente satisfactorio

- Experimentación Adaptativa. El Proyecto ha aportado al desarrollo de la extensión agroforestal
participativa implementando en forma complementaria a los programas de extensión agroforestal de
cada área de localización, los Proyectos de Experimentación Adaptativa (PEA). Los PEA hicieron
hincapié en el trabajo conjunto de técnicos y pequeños productores en la validación de técnicas y
modelos productivos . Los PEAs permitieron la interacción de productores y técnicos, intercambiando
conocimientos, validando e internalizando modelos productivos con criterios conservacionistas y
realizando una transferencia directa y demostrativa de las experiencias. La limitada cantidad de PEAs
realizados se relaciona con una falta de articulación adecuada entre las entidades ejecutoras y las
instituciones encargadas de la ejecución técnica de los PEAs y con la reducida capacidad operativa de
las entidades ejecutoras.

- Extensión y transferencia de tecnología. El Proyecto contribuyó a la difusión y transferencia de
tecnologías productivas en áreas con ecosistemas frágiles. A partir de un diagnóstico social, ambiental y
productivo de cada área de localización, el Proyecto en asociación con entidades de ejecución, diseñó e
implementó estrategias de extensión (PE&TT) en las que son precisados los modelos productivos
promovidos, la población meta y un mecanismo a través del cual los productores desarrollan
conjuntamente con los extensionistas, proyectos prediales para la conservación y la producción (PPCPs)
con énfasis en la conservación de los recursos, principalmente sistemas agroforestales.

- Campañas de educación ambiental. El Proyecto facilitó la elaboración del diseño de Campañas de
Educación Ambiental en todas las áreas de localización determinadas. La implementación de las
Campañas no pudo ser llevada a cabo por razones principalmente presupuestarias.


                                                   - 47 -

- Fondo agroforestal y gestión a nivel local. El Proyecto contribuyó a la transferencia en la
implementación de técnicas productivas sostenibles para lo cual dispuso un apoyo no reintegrable con el
fin de facilitar al pequeño productor las dificultades que implican la adopción de nuevas tecnologías; de
este modo el Proyecto proveyó los insumos necesarios para la implementación de los PPCPs en forma de
plantines, semillas, equipamiento menor, alambrado y materiales.

2. Resultados por Componente

A. Fortalecimiento Institucional

A. 1. Políticas, leyes y regulaciones.

El Proyecto contribuyó en la modernización y adecuación del marco legal y normativo con la intención
de promover el desarrollo de las inversiones y plantaciones forestales en el país y en concordancia con el
Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Forestal. Mediante la contratación de consultorías especializadas,
organización de reuniones y talleres entre técnicos y representantes de los gobiernos provinciales y
empresas del sector para discutir y acordar los alcances de las normativas y apoyo para la difusión, el
Proyecto contribuyó a la elaboración, sanción y difusión de las siguientes normativas:

- Ley 24.857, de estabilidad fiscal: a través de la cual se otorga a toda actividad forestal así como el
aprovechamiento de bosques la estabilidad fiscal por el término de 33 años.

- Ley 25.080, de Inversiones para Bosques Cultivados: a partir de la conformación de una mesa de
discusión sectorial en la que se reunieron todas las provincias con intereses forestales, ONGs vinculadas
y todas las cámaras y asociaciones representativas del sector, se discutieron los aspectos relevantes para
la elaboración de la ley orientada a incrementar la superficie forestada y promover el desarrollo de
proyectos industriales que agreguen valor a la producción forestal. A través de la ley 25.080 se
promueve la implantación de bosques, su mantenimiento y manejo, actividades de riego, protección,
cosecha, incluyendo actividades de investigación y desarrollo e industrialización de la madera cuando en
su conjunto formen parte de un emprendimiento forestal-industrial integrado. La ley comprende el
otorgamiento de los siguientes beneficios: estabilidad fiscal (incorporando los beneficios establecidos en
la ley 24.857), un régimen especial de amortizaciones para el impuesto a las ganancias, devolución del
IVA (impuesto al valor agregado), exención de todo impuesto patrimonial que grave los activos
afectados a la explotación forestal, apoyo económico no reintegrable a los bosques implantados (para
tareas de plantación, podas y raleos) y elimina el límite temporal para la constitución de fideicomisos.
Desde el Proyecto se realizó la redacción del decreto reglamentario y participó de todo el proceso de
adhesión provincial a la ley, acompañando a las autoridades forestales provinciales en la redacción,
presentación y aprobación de sus leyes de adhesión.

- Ley 25.509, de derecho real de superficie: esta ley se elaboró con la finalidad de facilitar la inversión
en plantaciones forestales sin la necesidad de adquirir la tierra y al mismo tiempo gozando de todas las
garantías de disponer el producto de la forestación, independientemente de lo que pueda ocurrir con la
situación del propietario de la tierra.

Por otra parte, el Proyecto apoyó la participación de representantes argentinos en distintas reuniones del
Proceso de Montreal, Cambio Climático Global y Convenio de Biodiversidad. También contribuyó a
través de consultorías especializadas y capacitaciones al análisis y seguimiento institucional de estos
convenios, generando informes y asistiendo en la toma de posición frente al escenario internacional y los


                                                   - 48 -

compromisos nacionales.

Por otra parte el Proyecto apoyó el estudio de estrategias destinadas a identificar el potencial argentino
para incorporarse al mercado de servicios ambientales, a través de la venta de carbono fijado en
sumideros de bosques cultivados, generando informes técnicos y 3 estudios estratégicos.

A. 2. Organización interna e interinstitucional.

El Proyecto realizó a través de especialistas internacionales, dos estudios para analizar y proponer una
estructura organizacional para la Dirección de Forestación encaminados a lograr una mejor gestión
institucional de todas las funciones que le fueran asignadas. Ninguna de las propuestas pudo ser
adoptada e implementada. Por otra parte y a través de un estudio especializado, pudieron ser
identificadas las mayores necesidades y limitaciones de la Dirección de Forestación en relación a sus
capacidades y funcionamiento. En base a este diagnóstico, la Dirección de Forestación elaboró un
Programa de Capacitación. El Proyecto financió el Plan de Capacitación de la Dirección de Forestación
que fue ejecutado en forma parcial. En total fueron realizadas 47 capacitaciones consideradas
individualmente, orientadas a temas de gestión administrativa, cursos de inglés, habilidades en
comunicación, economía forestal y certificación forestal. Independientemente del Plan de Capacitación
fueron realizadas otras capacitaciones: por una parte a través del Proyecto fueron capacitados los
técnicos del área de Inventario Forestal de la Dirección de Forestación en la aplicación de los Sistemas
de Información Geográfica a través de la financiación de cursos en España, Brasil y Chile; también fue
capacitado, un técnico de la Dirección de Forestación responsable del área ambiental, quien realizó una
maestría en la Universidad de East Anglia, Gran Bretaña. El Proyecto también facilitó a través de una
gira a Minas Gerais, Brasil, el intercambio entre agentes de instituciones gubernamentales forestales. El
Proyecto realizó la adquisición de equipamiento informático para la Dirección de Forestación: en el área
de inventario fueron adquiridas licencias para software específicos, GPS, 14 PC con monitor, 4
impresoras y 4 PC Workstation y en el resto de las áreas se proveyó mobiliario, 24 PC con monitor y 15
impresoras. Por otra parte el Proyecto facilitó a través de una consultora, el desarrollo e instalación de
un software específico a los efectos de eficientizar la gestión administrativa y procesos vinculados a la
ley 25.080 por parte de la Dirección de Forestación. Cabe señalar que la falta de un mayor apoyo
político dirigido a desarrollar la capacidad de gestión de la Dirección de Forestación debilitó el enfoque
integral necesario para alcanzar una mayor efectividad en la implementación de esta acción.

A través del área de Inventario Forestal y con el apoyo del Proyecto fueron capacitados más de 300
técnicos de direcciones de bosques provinciales, universidades INTA y profesionales independientes en
el uso y aplicaciones de GPS (Geoposicionador satelital) y manejo del software Arc View.
A través de un Convenio de asistencia técnico con el Servicio Forestal de los Estados Unidos han sido
capacitados 14 técnicos argentinos en el combate de incendios forestales. Los técnicos convocados
desempeñan sus funciones en distintos organismos: consorcios de lucha contra incendios, direcciones de
bosques provinciales, de partamentos de bomberos y servicios de parques nacionales. Los técnicos
fueron incorporados como combatientes de incendios forestales en las brigadas Hot Shot del bosque
nacional de San Bernardino; en promedio la estadía de cada entrenamiento tuvo 5 meses de duración.

El Proyecto inició la edición de la Revista SAGPyA Forestal de aparición trimestral que ofrece una
actualización de informaciones forestales de interés general, artículos técnicos, información sobre
precios y mercados, noticias y eventos del ámbito forestal. Fueron editados 36 números con un promedio
de 3000 ejemplares por cada número.




                                                  - 49 -

A. 3. Apoyo a la Implementación.

La Unidad de Implementación del Proyecto (UDI) elaboró los Planes Operativos Anuales (POAs),
preparó los informes de progreso presentados al Banco, confeccionó los indicadores de impacto y
desempeño, facilitó la revisión de medio término, efectuó el seguimiento, monitoreo y control de los
programas y proyectos implementados, supervisó la administración de la cuenta especial y manejó las
relaciones interinstitucionales con las organizaciones involucradas en la ejecución del Proyecto. Por otra
parte a través de la UDI se facilitó la evaluación externa del Proyecto. Por otra parte a través de un
taller inicial en el que participaron los principales actores del subsector y sucesivos talleres regionales,
fueron identificadas las áreas prioritarias de intervención en una eventual segunda fase del Proyecto,
elaborándose en base a estos talleres el perfil de un nuevo proyecto.

B. Generación y Diseminación de Investigaciones e Información

B. 1. Inventario y base de datos.

Con la colaboración de un especialista del Servicio Forestal de los Estados Unidos, fueron elaborados
los términos de referencia para la realización del Inventario Nacional de Plantaciones Forestales que fue
llevado a cabo por un consorcio de empresas. A través del inventario se pudo: determinar las áreas netas
de plantaciones por grupos de especies principales y por provincia ó región, estimar el volumen total de
madera en pie por grupos de especies principales y por provincia o región, producir mapas por provincia
mostrando la infraestructura y concentraciones de plantaciones por grupos de especies principales
(Escala 1: 100.000), almacenar los resultados del inventario en un Sistema de información Geográfica,
establecer un banco de datos que permita tener una idea precisa de las plantaciones forestales y
capacitar personal del área de Inventario de la Dirección de Forestación y de otras instituciones en todos
los aspectos del inventario forestal. Mediante numerosos talleres y publicaciones fueron difundidos los
resultados del inventario en las distintas regiones del país. Por otra parte y a través de especialistas
locales se diseñó una metodología para la actualización de los datos del inventario incorporando nueva
tecnología y con una mayor participación de las provincias involucradas. También se editó un resumen
del resultado del inventario: Inventario Nacional de Plantaciones Forestales.

B. 2. Sistemas de comercialización y clasificación de maderas

Mediante la organización y apoyo de giras en el exterior fueron realizados trabajos de exploración de
mercados principalmente en Estados Unidos, Japón y Medio Oriente. Se identificaron productos de
madera promisorios, se presentaron productos argentinos en ferias internacionales y un grupo de
empresas argentinas realizó una exhibición de productos en Japón. También se apoyaron iniciativas
innovadoras destinadas a promover el uso de la madera de eucaliptos y sauces en la realización de
muebles utilizando el diseño como herramienta estratégica para agregar valor.

Con relación a las normas de clasificación de maderas, el Proyecto a través de trabajos de consultoría
contrtibuyó en la preparación y publicación de la Norma Argentina IRAM 9670 para clasificación de
madera estructural y clasificación de grados de resistencia para madera aserrada de pinos en el noreste
argentino. Desde el Proyecto también se apoyó el desarrollo de las Directrices para la Construcción de
Viviendas de Madera.

Conjuntamente con la Dirección de Forestación, el Proyecto impulsó la edición de la publicación
mensual "Síntesis Forestal" con información de precios y mercados en el ámbito forestal que ha
proporcionado información valiosa para inversores y público en general.


                                                   - 50 -

Por otra parte y a través de una consultora internacional especializada fue elaborado, en base a un
diagnóstico inicial exhaustivo de la situación forestal en la provincia de Misiones y norte de Corrientes,
un plan estratégico dirigido al desarrollo de pequeñas y medianas empresas (PyMEs) de la industria
forestal de esa región.

B. 3. Selección y mejoramiento de árboles

A través de un proceso en el que participaron la SAGPyA, el INTA, instituciones de investigación,
universidades y empresas privadas fue elaborado un programa para la producción de material
reproductivo de calidad superior para las especies de mayor relevancia en cada región del país. El
programa se implementó a través de 7 Subprogramas: Pinos en la Mesopotamia, Eucaliptos en la
Mesopotamia, Coníferas en la Región Andinopatagónica, Alamos en el Delta del Paraná, Pinos y
Eucaliptos en el Noroeste Argentino y Sauces en el Delta del Paraná. La ejecución de todas las
actividades se ha apoyado en una gran articulación interinstitucional entre entidades públicas y empresas
privadas; el impacto ha sido significativo en los siguientes tópicos: en la ampliación de las áreas de
producción de material mejorado, la ampliación y calificación de las poblaciones de mejoramiento y de
los ensayos de evaluación, en la formación de grupos de trabajo y su capacitación y en el equipamiento e
infraestructura lograda. También se incorporaron en forma complementaria al programa diversas
actividades vinculadas al mejoramiento genético de Prosopis sp., Grevillea sp., Nothofagus sp. y
Austrocedrus chilensis, así como estudios basados en marcadores moleculares para distintas especies.
Durante la ejecución del programa se instalaron 165 ha de rodales productores de semilla mejorada y se
cosecharon 11.843 kg. de semilla mejorada. Con los resultados del programa se editó un libro: Mejores
árboles para más forestadores.

B. 4. Mejora de los procesos de producción de plantines y su comercialización

Con el fin de posibilitar un adecuado suministro de información para el control y seguimiento de la
producción de semilla forestal, el Proyecto llevó a cabo a través de una consultoría especializada un
diagnóstico del estado de situación de la producción de semillas forestales en el país incluyendo un censo
de viveros. A partir de este diagnóstico y con la colaboración de un experto internacional y otro local se
desarrolló una propuesta para un sistema de certificación de semillas en el país. El Proyecto,
conjuntamente con INASE concluyó el trabajo anterior mediante el diseño, elaboración y difusión de las
Normas para la certificación, producción, comercialización e importación de semillas de especies
forestales (Resolución INASE 256/99). Las normas constituyen un producto relevante y concreto del
Proyecto; en los registros del INASE se inscribieron más de 200 viveros, numerosos cultivares y fuentes
semilleras; sin embargo, la implementación de las Normas no ha tenido una plena efectividad debido a la
falta de involucramiento por parte del INASE y de la Dirección de Forestación en la materia.

Por otra parte y a través de una consultora especializada, el Proyecto elaboró una propuesta orientada a
mejorar tecnológicamente los procesos de viverización a escala comercial en las regiones de
Mesopotamia y Patagonia. La propuesta desarrollada, principalmente dirigida a la instalación de
módulos demostrativos, no ha sido implementada ya que pudo comprobarse que debido al rápido avance
tecnológico producido desde el diseño original, el progreso realizado por parte de los viveristas hizo que
la relevancia de esta actividad dejara de ser prioritaria.

B. 5. Investigación y extensión en manejo de plantaciones

Para la implementación de los PIAs, el Proyecto elaboró las Normas técnicas y administrativas para la


                                                  - 51 -

elegibilidad y ejecución de los PIAs (Resolución SAGPyA 429/96), en las que se definen los plazos,
montos, y condiciones para presentación de propuestas. Las líneas temáticas de investigación fueron
definidas a nivel regional y en forma participativa. Para la selección y evaluación de los Proyectos, el
INTA conformó un comité de evaluación que realizó una primer selección; luego el Proyecto con el
apoyo de especialistas finalizó en cada caso el proceso de selección.

En total fueron concluidos con éxito 117 PIAs en todo el país. La mayoría de los PIAs (54 %) se
concentró en la investigación de temas de silvicultura, establecimiento y manejo de plantaciones
forestales y sistemas silvopastoriles; un 18 % de los PIAs se ocupó de la ecología y sostenibilidad en
plantaciones forestales; otro 18 % se orientó a temas de sanidad forestal; y finalmente un 10 % de los
PIAs estuvo destinado a aspectos relativos a la tecnología, industrialización de la madera y otros temas
socioeconómicos. En general los PIAs realizaron una investigación destinada a ser aplicada en forma
directa en las prácticas de producción; en regiones como la Mesopotamia, fue posible a través de los
resultados de PIAs adoptar cambios en técnicas de manejo y establecimiento de plantaciones. Los PIAs
comprendidos en el ámbito de la ecología forestal han permitido establecer conocimientos fundamentales
para la comprensión de las interacciones entre forestación y ambiente en las distintas regiones del país.
Los PIAs en sanidad han aportado un avance significativo en el control de las plagas forestales de
mayor incidencia en el país. Por otra parte, los PIAs han generado una gran captación de profesionales y
brindaron un importante apoyo en la formación y consolidación de equipos de investigación, impulsando
notablemente la investigación forestal en Argentina. Con los resultados resumidos de los PIAs fueron
editados dos libros: Investigación Forestal al Servicio de la Producción I y II.

A partir de una serie de estudios vinculados al manejo de la biodiversidad en plantaciones forestales, ha
sido generada gran cantidad de información de base para la formulación de un proyecto GEF
complementario a la segunda fase del Proyecto.

El Proyecto llevó a cabo una estrategia de extensión a través de los Núcleos de Extensión Forestal
establecidos en 6 regiones del país seleccionadas en base a su desarrollo y alto potencial para el
establecimiento de plantaciones forestales comerciales: Misiones y Corrientes norte, Corrientes y Entre
Ríos, Región Pampeana, Delta del Paraná, Noroeste argentino y Patagonia Andina. Con distinto
impacto en cada región, los NEF han promovido la actividad forestal, facilitando el acceso a la
información, transfiriendo tecnologías adecuadas e interactuando con instituciones nacionales,
provinciales, municipales y organizaciones locales. Los técnicos encargados de la extensión tuvieron
una capacitación inicial en técnicas de comunicación y herramientas de extensión. A partir de un
diagnóstico inicial para cada región, cada NEF diseñó una estrategia de intervención basada en la
realización de talleres participativos, reuniones técnicas, visitas a productores y giras de intercambio. El
conjunto de los NEF trabajó con una población estimada de 4000 productores principalmente pequeños
y medianos.

El Proyecto facilitó la capacitación a nivel de doctorado (PhD) a dos técnicos de INTA: uno en la
Universidad de Tasmania (Australia) en el área de Mejoramiento genético en Eucalyptus sp.; el otro en
la Lincoln University de Nueva Zelandia en sistemas silvopastoriles.

A través del Programa de Platypus elaborado por un especialista del Pacific Forest Research (Victoria
B.C) del servicio forestal de Canadá se realizó un plan de trabajo para investigar y desarrollar una
estrategia de control del Platypus mutatus que se inició con la realización de 3 PIAs.

El Proyecto realizó gran cantidad de publicaciones para informar y difundir el potencial forestal
nacional como por ejemplo: Análisis de las oportunidades de inversión en bosques de cultivo en la


                                                  - 52 -

Argentina (español e inglés); Broschure: Negocios forestales en Argentina; Libro de casos: Capacidad
innovativa en bosques de cultivo.

Fueron organizados por el Proyecto numerosos talleres de capacitación en temas relevantes como
certificación forestal, fijación de carbono en plantaciones forestales, impacto ambiental de las
forestaciones y quemas prescriptas.

B. 6. Desertificación en Patagonia

A través de un trabajo conjunto entre una consultora internacional especializada y bajo un enfoque
concordante con los acuerdos establecidos en la Convención sobre Desertificación de la cual Argentina
es signataria se generó un estudio exhaustivo de la problemática de la desertificación en la Patagonia y
de sus posibles vías de control; el análisis comprende el estado de arte, intervenciones exitosas en otros
países, aspectos socioeconómicos, fuerzas impulsoras del proceso, costos vinculados con la
desertificación y costos vinculados con la introducción de usos alternativos sustentables. Se realizó
también un taller de presentación y discusión de los resultados de este trabajo. La información generada
constituye una herramienta muy importante para la planificación estratégica regional vinculada al
abordaje del problema.

C. Apoyo a Pequeños Productores para la Conservación Ambiental

C. 1. Experimentación adaptativa

A partir del trabajo realizado por un especialista internacional a través de una consultoría, fueron
identificados los temas prioritarios para el desarrollo de los proyectos de experimentación adaptativa en
cada área de localización. En total fueron concluídos satisfactoriamente 9 PEAs en las siguientes
temáticas: productividad en sistemas agroforestales, prácticas de saneamiento y enriquecimiento del
bosque, evaluación de métodos de riego y manejo del pastoreo en mallines. Los PEAs aportaron
experiencias y conocimientos importantes y complementarios a la extensión agroforestal pero su
implementación no alcanzó los niveles esperados; la cantidad de extensionistas agroforestales afectados
a los programas de extensión fue menor de la prevista, lo cual hizo que su trabajo estuviera concentrado
en la implementación de los programas de extensión restando un reducido espacio para dedicar a los
PEAs. Por otra parte no fue adecuada la articulación entre las entidades ejecutoras del plan de extensión
y las responsables de los PEAs.

C. 2. Extensión y transferencia de tecnología

El Proyecto a partir de la identificación de las entidades ejecutoras de la extensión, evaluó las
propuestas para los programas de extensión de cada área de localización. La implementación de los
PE&TT ha tenido un alto impacto en la adopción y difusión de tecnologías ambiental, económica y
socialmente sostenibles y ha contribuido a incrementar los ingresos del pequeño productor;
indirectamente también ha contribuido en muchos casos a regularizar la tenencia de la tierra. La
estrategia instrumentada por los extensionistas agroforestales se basó principalmente en la realización de
talleres participativos, reuniones técnicas, visitas a productores, giras técnicas y elaboración de PPCPs.
El Proyecto diseñó un sistema de evaluación y seguimiento para los PPCPs. A través de los PPCPs
fueron asistidas 1803 familias de pequeños productores que corresponden a 1674 PPCPs,
estableciéndose 3.668 ha de sistemas agroforestales, 635 ha de forestaciones en macizo y sobre 1.182
ha. se realizaron actividades de enriquecimiento y manejo restaurativo del bosque nativo. Por otra parte
y a lo largo de todo el desarrollo del programa y en el conjunto de las áreas fueron asistidos más de


                                                   - 53 -

10.000 productores en tareas de capacitación, básicamente en técnicas de producción sostenible.

C. 3. Campañas de Educación Ambiental

El diseño para la implementación de las Campañas de Educación Ambiental contemplo la realización de
tareas de capacitación y concientización en los distintos niveles educativos y con el involucramiento por
parte de las autoridades provinciales. Las campañas no fueron llevadas a cabo no disponer de suficiente
crédito presupuestario al momento de su implementación.

C. 4. Fondo agroforestal y gestión a nivel local

El Proyecto desarrolló y elaboró las normas que regulan el mecanismo de otorgamiento de los fondos
locales agroforestales a los pequeños productores (Resolución SAGPyA 996/97) a través de los cuales
son adquiridos los insumos para la implementación de los PPCPs. En total para la ejecución de los 1674
PPCPs fueron insumidos U$S 698.870,35. Más del 60 % de este monto corresponde a capital fijo.

3. Impacto en el Desarrollo Institucional

La implementación del Proyecto ha tenido un alto impacto en la mejora de las capacidades de las
instituciones involucradas. Principalmente la Dirección de Forestación y el INTA han sido ampliamente
fortalecidas mediante distintas líneas de acción; por otra parte, varias universidades, organizaciones no
gubernamentales, institutos de investigación y direcciones de bosques provinciales han sido beneficiadas
en su capacidad institucional a través de su participación en la ejecución de proyectos de investigación,
programas de extensión y estudios estratégicos. Los PIAs han aportado un soporte muy importante al
desarrollo institucional, ya que impulsaron líneas de investigación que requerían ser desarrolladas
impactando positivamente y consolidando grupos de especialistas que promovieron la relevancia
ambiental y socioeconómica del tema forestal, incrementándose la capacidad operativa y técnica de las
instituciones participantes. También el programa de producción de material de propagación mejorado ha
generado condiciones superadoras en los cuerpos administrativos y técnicos de las instituciones
participantes, proporcionando una mayor fluidez en el intercambio y comunicación de todas las
entidades involucradas en el programa. Las actividades de capacitación han fortalecido la capacidad
técnica y administrativa en la Dirección de Forestación, el INTA y en Direcciones de Bosques
provinciales. También y a través de la Revista SAGPyA Forestal y las publicaciones de difusión técnica
realizadas, ha sido fortalecida la comunicación, información e interacción entre productores, técnicos y
organizaciones con las instituciones forestales en general y en particular con el órgano de línea de la
SAGPyA. La actualización del marco legal promovida por el Proyecto ha generado los instrumentos de
base necesarios para lograr una mayor eficacia institucional.



III. PRINCIPALES FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LA IMPLEMENTACIÓN Y
RESULTADOS

1. Factores que escapan al control del gobierno o agencia de implementación. En general todas las
entidades no gubernamentales que participaron en la ejecución del Proyecto han colaborado activamente
sin ofrecer ningún tipo de dificultad en la implementación.

2. Factores generalmente sujetos a control por el gobierno. El soporte político de apoyo a la
coordinación del Proyecto ha tenido gran repercusión en la implementación; los cambios políticos
acaecidos en los niveles superiores de la SAGPyA han ocasionado discontinuidades en la ejecución. La


                                                  - 54 -

adecuada articulación de gestión entre la coordinación del Proyecto y las autoridades de línea de la
SAGPyA constituye un factor determinante en la eficacia de la implementación.

El gobierno argentino no dispuso en el presupuesto nacional de fondos de contrapartida, los cuales
fueron asignados de modo extra-presupuestario; incluso durante tres años el Proyecto no recibió ningún
tipo de aporte de fondos locales. La falta de disponibilidad de fondos locales afectó negativamente la
implementación de algunas actividades, principalmente aquellas financiadas con recursos del tesoro
como por ejemplo el fondo local agroforestal. En general las limitaciones presupuestarias impuestas a
partir del año 2002, han reducido la capacidad de ejecución provocando un estiramiento en los plazos de
finalización.

Los impactos de la crisis del gobierno nacional en diciembre de 2001 afectaron el nivel de inversiones al
modificar el tipo de cambio: la implementación del Proyecto medida en términos de inversiones
realizadas, puede ser representada por una curva ascendente con un pico en el año 1998 a partir del cual
se desciende hasta el año 2001 y se estabiliza el nivel de gastos; como consecuencia de la devaluación se
reduce el nivel de gastos en moneda local, pero se mantiene tomado en términos de dólares
estadounidenses.

3. Factores generalmente sujetos a control por la agencia de implementación. En los primeros años de
implementación, con un nivel de inversiones muy alto, se demoró la solicitud de desembolsos por parte
de la Unidad de implementación lo que generó complicaciones en períodos posteriores.

Con respecto a la implementación de los PEAs, los mismos no han tenido el impacto deseado ya que
fueron concluidos una cantidad menor de los previstos; por una parte las limitaciones presupuestarias
han acotado la cantidad de extensionistas agroforestales en cada área de localización, lo cual condicionó
su capacidad operativa; por otra parte, en muchos casos la articulación entre las entidades ejecutoras y
las entidades responsables no fue adecuada.

La implementación de los procesos de selección de PIAs no incluyó una instancia de evaluación por
especialistas en cada materia lo cual hubiera complementado el proceso de selección establecido.

IV. SOSTENIBILIDAD

Satisfactoria. La calificación de la sostenibilidad debe tener en consideración la especificidad de la
actividad forestal, caracterizada por sus largos plazos. En esta dirección también pueden situarse los
avances en la discusión de una segunda fase del Proyecto, que en ciertos aspectos apuntan a la
consolidación de las iniciativas y resultados obtenidos por el Proyecto para reafirmar su sostenibilidad.
Por otra parte, los criterios para evaluar la sostenibilidad son diferentes en cada uno de los componentes
y por eso se aclaran separadamente.

Fortalecimiento institucional: con respecto al marco legal, puede aceptarse que la modernización del
mismo a través de la sanción de leyes y normas tiene un carácter sostenible ya que estas disposiciones,
más allá que pueda requerirse su revisión y actualización, permanecen luego de la finalización del
Proyecto. La capacitaciones realizadas por parte de los agentes de la Dirección de Forestación, también
contribuyen a sostener los resultados alcanzados, ampliando la capacidad de gestión en las áreas
respectivas.

Generación y diseminación de investigaciones e información: si bien los PIAs y el programa de
producción de material de propagación mejorado no son continuados en la forma en que fueron


                                                   - 55 -

diseñados, la formación y especialización de grupos, la instalación de ensayos y la consolidación de
líneas de investigación representan una forma de sostener los resultados alcanzados por el Proyecto.
Cabe destacar que en el mismo año de cierre del Proyecto, el INTA ha adoptado una nueva estrategia
nacional para la implementación de la investigación, con una planificación a largo plazo; de esta manera
fueron elaborados proyectos integrados que contienen proyectos específicos para cada temática; un
elevado porcentaje de proyectos específicos representa una línea de continuidad de PIAs o subprogramas
del programa de producción de material de propagación mejorado. En el caso de los Núcleos de
Extensión Forestal, los mismos han sido absorbidos por la Dirección de Forestación, continuando sus
actividades de la forma en que fueron implementados por el Proyecto aunque seguramente se hagan los
ajustes necesarios para su funcionamiento en ese ámbito. Con relación al inventario nacional de bosque
cultivados, la información se encuentra disponible en la página web de la SAGPyA facilitando el acceso
para su utilización en distintos campos de aplicación; la Dirección de Forestación evalúa actualmente la
metodología para realizar la actualización del inventario y ciertas provincias ya han comenzado a
trabajar en esta tarea. Las normas de certificación de semillas también permanecen vigentes aunque sea
necesario su seguimiento y control; lo mismo puede decirse de las normas de clasificación de maderas y
directrices para la construcción de viviendas. En relación a la información generada en torno a la
problemática de la desertificación en Patagonia, la misma conforma un elemento de base muy valioso
para ser utilizado en la planificación y desarrollo regional.

Apoyo a pequeños productores para la conservación ambiental: en este caso la sostenibilidad del
programa implementado, tal como fue concebido aparece más débil; la sostenibilidad de los resultados
estará más bien ubicada en la capacitación de los extensionistas agroforestales, la internalización de
técnicas y estrategias conservacionistas por parte de los productores beneficiarios y los que de forma
indirecta fueron alcanzados por el programa.



V. DESEMPENO DEL BANCO Y DEL PRESTATARIO

1. Otorgamiento del préstamo

El Proyecto fue bien preparado disponiendo de un adecuado período de tiempo para realizar una intensa
discusión y revisión con los actores y participantes, elaborar un detallado diagnóstico para cada una de
las áreas de intervención del Proyecto y efectuar las consultas y encuentros participativos necesarios
para dar consistencia a la formulación. El gobierno nacional ha priorizado el tema forestal y trabajado
conjuntamente con el Banco en la relevancia del desarrollo de la actividad forestal para el otorgamiento
del crédito.

2. Supervisión

El Banco desarrolló una estrecha colaboración con el prestatario, respondiendo rápidamente y con
amplia disposición al diálogo y la negociación. La experiencia y calidad técnica del equipo del Banco ha
contribuido y aportado sustancialmente a la implementación y monitoreo a lo largo de la ejecución del
Proyecto en sus 20 misiones de supervisión. Por otra parte el vasto conocimiento del equipo del Banco
sobre problemáticas forestales similares en distintos países y situaciones, ha fortalecido, enriquecido y
orientado el seguimiento general del Proyecto. Se destaca el gran apoyo aportado por el Programa
Cooperativo FAO-BIRF para el seguimiento del Proyecto. Por otra parte los Indicadores de Desempeño
e Impacto acordados han constituido una herramienta confiable para el monitoreo de la implementación.

3. Desempeño del Banco


                                                 - 56 -

El desempeño del Banco ha sido altamente satisfactorio. Los equipos tanto de la agencia central como la
local han colaborado muy positivamente en la resolución de todos los problemas operativos surgidos en
la implementación. Por otra parte la capacitación dispuesta para el manejo de los procedimientos
establecidos por el Banco ha brindado los instrumentos necesarios para el funcionamiento operativo del
Proyecto.

4. Prestatario

El prestatario ha asumido plenamente el compromiso político para la implementación del Proyecto,
cumpliendo y siguiendo las pautas establecidas por el Banco y colaborando positivamente en la
resolución de obstáculos en la implementación.

5. Preparación

La preparación del Proyecto ha sido altamente satisfactoria y fue realizada a través de un proceso de
varios años con un amplio intercambio entre los actores principales del sector forestal; este proceso se
vió enriquecido por el apoyo del Programa Cooperativo FAO-BIRF y fue facilitado a través de una
donación por parte del Gobierno Japonés (Japanese Grant) canalizada por el Banco. Originalmente
había sido previsto un Proyecto del Sector Forestal y Protección del Medio Ambiente, que fue separado
en dos Proyectos, uno vinculado a los bosques nativos administrado por la actual Secretaría de
Ambiente y Desarrollo Sustentable y el otro relativo a los bosques cultivados por la SAGPyA.; esta
división facilitó seguramente la operatividad del Proyecto.

6. Desempeño de la agencia de implementación

El desempeño de la agencia de implementación ha sido altamente satisfactoria; teniendo en cuenta la
diversidad de programas, proyectos y actividades implementadas en el Proyecto la Unidad de
implementación ha tenido agilidad suficiente para tener alta eficacia operativa. También colaboró en el
trabajo de la Auditoría General de la Nación incorporando luego de cada ejercicio modificaciones para
mejorar los procesos operativos.

7. Desempeño del Prestatario

En general el gobierno argentino ha tenido un desempeño satisfactorio, apoyando las tareas de
preparación e implementación del Proyecto dando prioridad al impulso del desarrollo forestal y
colaborando en las tareas requeridas por el Banco. Por otra parte, la falta de disponibilidad de fondos de
contrapartida y limitaciones de índole presupuestaria afectaron la ejecución y retrasaron la
implementación de algunas actividades del Proyecto.



VI. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

- La adecuada articulación de gestión entre la coordinación del Proyecto y las autoridades de línea de la
SAGPyA constituye un factor determinante en la eficacia de la implementación; un fuerte acuerdo
político en los niveles de mayor jerarquía facilita la integración en la implementación de los programas
y permite superar los obstáculos que se presentan en la ejecución de los mismos. Al mismo tiempo
permite brindar la continuidad necesaria para el logro de los resultados.




                                                  - 57 -

- La falta en el ámbito de la SAGPyA de una unidad de planificación estratégica del área forestal tiene
efectos negativos ya que limita los impactos, integración y eficacia de la ejecución de proyectos y
programas.

- La debilidad institucional en el área forestal por parte de las provincias dificulta la implementación de
acciones con las mismas, resultando por ende necesario su fortalecimiento.

- Es necesaria una adecuada articulación entre el Ministerio de Economía, la SAGPyA y la Jefatura de
Gabinete de Ministros, así como el apoyo político suficiente por parte de la SAGPyA para poder
asegurar los niveles presupuestarios requeridos para cada ejercicio. Por otra parte esto asegura un
mayor funcionalidad en la formulación y utilización de los Planes Operativos Anuales al establecer
previsiones realistas.

- Es importante el fortalecimiento y continuidad de las tareas de monitoreo y seguimiento; por lo tanto es
necesario asignar los esfuerzos requeridos para desarrollar esta tarea.

- La tramitación de los fondos locales agroforestales (subsidios) destinados a facilitar al pequeño
productor los insumos necesarios para implementar las técnicas conservacionistas respectivas, se realizó
a través de Resoluciones de la SAGPyA, lo cual en muchos casos ha provocado demoras importantes
en la implementación.

- La unidad de implementación ha tenido como ventaja la agilidad dada por su pequeña dimensión; pero
por otra parte el seguimiento de actividades realizadas en los programas y proyectos desarrollados en el
interior se vió limitada por esta misma circunstancia.

- La realización de un diagnóstico inicial preciso con la participación de los distintos involucrados, es
una herramienta fundamental en la implementación de programas y proyectos para poder obtener
intervenciones eficientes.

- La elaboración y el diseño de los procedimientos y estrategias operativas para la implementación de los
programas influye notablemente en el alcance de los resultados.

- Los procedimientos establecidos para la selección de PIAs deberían contar con una instancia de
evaluación por especialistas para cada área temática.




                                                  - 58 -

- 59 -

