                                                      RP606v67
             NORTH POWER CORPORATION
         Electric Network Project Management Board
                    -------------------------------




                 RESETTLEMENT PLAN
                        (RP)




                         PROJECT:

           THE RURAL DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
110KV SUBSTATION OF CAI DAM NEW URBAN AREA AND 110KV
                        BRANCH




                    Hanoi, August 2012
                                                         CONTENTS

APPENDIXES .......................................................................................................................... 0

ABBREVIATIONS .................................................................................................................. 1

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ..................................................................................................... 2

1. INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................. 11

2. INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK ........................................................ 13

3. ENTITLEMENT POLICY ............................................................................................... 25

4. MEASURES TO MINIMIZE LAND ACQUISITION AND LOSSES......................... 29

5. PEOPLE’S PARTICIPATION......................................................................................... 31

6. PROJECT IMPACTS ....................................................................................................... 35

7. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENT ...................................................................... 38

8. COSTS AND BUDGET ..................................................................................................... 46

A         P        P         E         N         D         I        X         E         X         .................................... 47




APPENDIXES
Map of project areas
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                    Resettlement
Plan

     1. Policy framework for compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation and Entitlement
        Matrix
     2. Minutes of Community Meetings
     3. Sample of „Questionnaire‟
     4. Housing categories (Vietnamese Construction Standards)
     5. Permarnent land acquisition
     6. Temporary land acquisition
     7. Socio-economic Household Data Sheet of project affected people
     8. Inventory of Project affected People
     9. Details of Entitlement of Project affected people
Note: TheAnnexes has been disclosed at the offices of the project related provincial People’s
Committees and at Vietnam Development and Information Center (VDIC) of the World Bank
office in Hanoi
ABBREVIATIONS

CPC                   Commune People‟s Committee

CRC                   Compensation and Resettlement Committee

D/L                   Distribution Line

DMS                   Detailed Measurement Survey

DNRE                  Deparment of Natural Resources and Environment

DOC                   Deparment of Construction

DOF                   Deparment of Finance and Pricing

DOI                   Deparment of Industry

DPC                   District People‟s Committee

DP                    Displaced Persons (Pls. see definition in Policy Framework)

DSS                   Distribution Sub-Station

EM                    Ethnic Minority

EMDP                  Ethnic Minority Development Plan

EVN                   Electricity of Vietnam

GOV                   Government of Vietnam

HH                    Household




Vinaincon E&C                                                                              -1
-
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch           Resettlement
Plan

IDA                International Development Association

IMA                Independent Monitoring Agency

LURC               Land Use Right Certificate

PO/BP 4.12         World Bank‟s Operation Policies 4.12

NPC                Power Company No.1

CCDC               Consulting Centre for Design and Construction

PMU                Project Management Unit

PPC                Provincial People‟s Committee

PPP                Project Provincial Power

RP                 Resettlement Plan

ROW                Right-of-Way

USD                US Dollar

VND                Viet Nam Dong




EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.Introduction

Vinaincon E&C                                                                     -2
-
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                    Resettlement
Plan

1.1 The Project
1.      Objectives:The objective of the proposed project would enable the supply of
sufficient power of acceptable quality to the rural retail level.


2.      Preliminary project description: The project would focus on rehabilitating and
increasing the capacity of existing distribution lines and substations and standardizing them
to 110, 35 and 22kV to enable them to meet the growing demand more efficiently, provide
better quality and quantity of electric power for productive uses, and reduce power system
losses.
The project 110kV Cai Dam New urban area substation and 110kV branch will be located on 52
Group, Ha Khau Ward, Ha long City, Quang Ninh Province, Vietnam.
1.2 Policy Framework
This RP is based on the Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and
Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons (see Annexes 2 for Policy Framwork for
Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons). According to
the policy framework, eligibity for compensation and rehabilitation entitlementy includes all
affected persons, households and institutions with or without legal status on their assets
included in the RP inventory prior to the RP cut-off date. By the actual RP implementation,
PMUs/Compensation and Resettlement Committees will organize the survey for the actual
prevailing prices for the adjustment of compensation unit prices, if necessary and the amount
of compensation will be displayed at the communes‟ PC offices
1.3 Principles and Objectives
The principles outlined in the WB PO/BP 4.12(adopted in the Policy Framework) is based for
the preparation the RP of this subproject.
Compensation costs will be based on replacement/ market costs. Compensation at
replacement for land, houses and perennial trees, compensation at market price for annual
crops.
Apart from direct compensation, all DPs who permanently losing more than 10% of their
residential/ productive land or other incomes are entitled to trainings or other restoration
measures and who required to be resettled are entitled to (i) transport allowance; (ii)
relocating subsidy and (iii) trainings or other restoration measures. However, in theses sub-
projects, these are no DPs losing more than 10% of fixed assets or who will require
relocation.
The cut-off date has been fixed prior to the commencement of the socio-economic surveys
and inventory, the 15 of April, 2009. The cut-off date has been declared officially by the
competent local authorities in the very first community meetings in project.
1.4 Existing Power Supply Management in Project Araes
Currently, No1 Power Company suplly to electric consume via Quang Ninh Electricity.
1.5 Overall Project Description
     - Voltage:              110 kV
     - Number of circuit :   02 circuit
      - Starting point:      Tower No 24 174 bay of 110 kV Hoanh Bo – Gieng Day
                             transmission power line

Vinaincon E&C                                                                              -3
-
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                      Resettlement
Plan

     - Ending point: :        Portice of 110kV Cai Dam New urban area substation
     - Length of T/L:         120m
     - Condoctor:             ACSR - 240/32, TK-50
     - Insulator:             glass-ceramic, porcerlain
     - Tower:                 steel
     - Foundation:            Ferro-concrete


2.Institutional and Legal Framework
2.1 Institutional Framework
The overall responsibility for enforcement of the Policy Framework and for planning and
implementing this RP‟s rests with PMU – NPC and its relevant Institutions (i.e. Provincal and
District CRCs, provincial DOF, DOC, DOI, DNRE..)
PMU – NPC and CCDC is responsible for carrying out census, socio-economic survey and
inventories and preparing RP and for the day-to-day implementation there of within their
respective jurisdiction.
The District and Commune People‟s Committees will participate in the RP preparation and
implementation.
2.2 Legal Framework
All GOV policies and WB policies related to land acquisition; compensation and resettlement
(PO/BP 4.12) are applied for this RP. Where GOV and WB policies are not compatible, the
WB‟s PO/BP 4.12shall prevail with certain required waivers.
3.Entitlement Policy
This RP has been prepared on the basis of the PO/BP 4.12 of the WB on involuntary
resettlement adopted in the Policy Framework. The principle objective of the Policy
Framework is to ensure that all DPs will be compensated for their losses at replacement cost
and provide with rehabilitation measures to assist them to improve, or at least maintain, their
pre-project living standards and income earning capacity.
The Policy Framework lays down the principles and objectives, eligibility criteria of DP‟s,
entitlements, legal and institutional framework, modes of compensation and rehabilitation,
peoples participation features and grievances procedures that will guide the compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation of the DP‟s
Apart from direct compensation, all DPs who permanently losing more than 10% of their
residential/productive land or other incomes are entitled to (i) transport allowance, (ii)
relocating subsidy; (iii) trainings or other restoration measures (GOV Decree 197/2004/ND-
CP).
4. Resettlement Site
Thanks to mitigation measures through public consultations from the initial stage and design
stage of the project, the socio-economic surveys, inventory and census show that there isone
DPs whose fixed assets being acquired more than 10% of their total holding and required to
be relocated, therefore, development of resettlement site is required.
5. People’s Participation


Vinaincon E&C                                                                                -4
-
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                      Resettlement
Plan

The consultation with DPs in getting their-feedback will limit contradiction and avoid delays
in project implementation. The RP is developed in close consultation with local authorities
and DPs in order to maximize their participation in resettlement planning and implementing
and the socio-economic benefits of Dps to the project.
Local authorities and DPs were consulted through line alignments, drafts of resettlement
policy, RP implementation, grievance mechanism and monitoring and evaluation on the
restoration of DP‟s livelihoods after the project implementation.


6. Baseline Information
6.1 Data Gathering Activities
CCDC staff have carried out the census and inventory by means of direct interviews and
„Questionnaires‟ in april 2009 covering 100% of DPs in the project affected areas in Ha Khau
ward, Ha long city,Quang Ninh province.
6.2 Socio-economic Surveys
The socio-economic surveys have been carried out aiming at providing baseline data on the
localities traversed by the D/Ls in Ha Khau ward, Ha long city,Quang Ninh province. Survey
data cover the information on the characteristics of the ward, their sources of income,
revenue, socio-economic situation. The survey also aims at identifying characteristics of
effected areas, assessing the development of population, house, socio-economic etc. The
survey data are used for establishing resettlement policy and basses for evaluating restoration
of living standards.
6.3 Censuses and Inventory
The census and inventory show that:

              Numberof HHs impact                                        06 HHs with
                                                                          12 persons
                                                                          01 HHs with
              Number of HHs required to be resettled                     05 persons

              Number and area of house/structures lost                   2 houses level
                                                                          4 - 121 m2

              Residential land area damaged                              2497.33   m2--
                                                                                  2
                                                                          511.99 m
              Forest land area lost
              The area of forest land lost / Total area of forest land
                                                                          1.6%

              Number of estate affected (all kinds)                      2 house level 4

              Business lost including structures, land and other fixed Nil
               assets

              Impact on tenants who leased the house for residential Nil
               purpose



Vinaincon E&C                                                                                -5
-
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                   Resettlement
Plan

                  Impact on sensitive areas                            Nil

                  Impact on public utilities                           Nil
                  Impact on land temporarily                           4500 m2



The census and inventory also show the household characteristics:

      Average family size                            3.67 persons

   - Man                                              45.45%

   - Women                                            54.55%

      Age Group
   - Children ( 17 years old)                        18.18%

   - 18-60 age                                        68.18%
   - > 60 age                                         13.64%
      Head of Household
       - male                                         83.33%
       -female                                        16.67%

      Education

   - High school                                      13.64%

   - Secondary                                        27.27%

   - Primary                                          40.91%

   - Elementary                                       4.55%

   - Read/write                                       0%

   - Illiterates                                      0%

      Occupation                                     DPs are mainly earning their
                                                      living by farming and small scale
                                                      aquaculture/live - stock breeding.

      Income (annual average income)                 13,281 million VND/person/year


7. Project Impacts




Vinaincon E&C                                                                              -6
-
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                           Resettlement
Plan

7.1. Types of Impact
Row is defined on the Electricity standard Vietnam (TCVN) on security protection for high
voltage power network:
        All house and public structures in ROW are required to remove or could be existed with
         the restricted conditions.
        All high trees in tower foundation areas and in ROW of D/L that from the tops of trees to
         the lowest conductor less than 3 m will be cut. All trees out of ROW but it is supposed to
         touch to the conductors in the case of fallen trees (should be at lest under 1m from the top
         of fallen trees to the conductors) will be cut.
        All structures out of ROW but it is supposed to impact to the project such as bomb and
         mine storage, gas station, stone mine, communication centers etc will be removed.
        Permanently land acquisition for the project consists of:
           -    Land acquired for tower foundations
           -    Land acquired for permanent access roads
        Temporary impacted land for the project consists of:
           -    Land area surrounding the foundation during the period of foundation digging
                and tower erection.
           -    Land area for the service roads for transportation of material into the tower
                position. The impacted land area will be proposed temporary from 1 to 2
                months.
           -    Temporary impacted land area in conductor tension consists of a line along the
                route, 7 m wide (the line is only calculated for category of annual cultivation
                land). The land area would be impacted from 1 to mouths.
        Impacted bridges and roads and road are built by local during materials transportation.
         Inventory survey work for impacts is carried out in april 2009, results are as the below
         table.
7.2 Project impacted People
The following persons to be identified by the baseline information collected for this RP are
Displaced Persons:
     (a) Persons whose house are in part or in total affected (temporarily or permanently) by
         the project;
     (b) Persons whose businesses are affected in part or in total (temporarily or permanently)
         by the project
     (c) Persons whose crops (annual and perennial) and trees are affected in part or in total by
         the project, and
     (d) Persons whose rented for residential purpose are affected by the project.
Results of the socio-economic surveys and census show that:
Total number of DPs is 06 HHs (22 persons), of these


        Number of households affected over 10% of productive land              Nil


Vinaincon E&C                                                                                     -7
-
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                      Resettlement
Plan

      Number of households affected is less than 10% of                    01     HHs/02
       productive land (forestry)                                           persons
      Number of households affected residential land part - does           03     HHs/11
       not affect the housing                                               persons
      Number of households affected residential land part - affect         01     HHs/04
       the housing and rest of qualified rebuild                            persons
      Number of households affected residential land part - to the
       entire affected area and rest of unqualified rebuild                 01     HHs/05
      DPs with business partly or totally affected                         persons
                                                                            Nil

7.3 Project Impacted Assets
The project will impact on:
       (a) Permanent land acquisition for tower foundations, and some access roads for the
           project contraction.
       (b) Permanent impact on houses, structures, trees, crops and other assets in the
           proposed tower foundation areas and in ROWs.
       (c) Assets on the service roads.
       (d) All trees and crops or other assets surrounding the tower foundation and ROWs.
       (e) Temporarily acquired land required during contraction of the project
Results of the socio-economic surveys show that:
      Permanent land acquisition                                           : 5342,87 m2
               Residential land                                             : 2497.33 m2
      Permanent affected structures                                        : 121.32 m2
      Temporary affected structures                                        : Nil
      Permanent affected crops                                             : 403 trees
      Temporary affected with vetgetable garden                            : 3,826 m2
7.4 Mitigation Measures
Thank to mitigation measures undertaken right from the initial design stage though public
consultation, close cooperation with various local authorities and related off-ices, the project
impacts are almost marginal.
8. Implementation Arrangements
8.1 Implementation Schedule.
Right after the investment for the project is approved, DPs in the project affected areas will
be informed, again, of their rights, policy of this RP, including legal framework, eligibility
provisions, entitlements, rates and mode of compensation/assistance, implementation time-
schedule and complaint and grievance rights mechanism. Such information will be delivered
to DPs through community meetings, pamphlets…
The proposed RP implementation schedule is as follows:


Vinaincon E&C                                                                                -8
-
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                  Resettlement
Plan

Schedule for PMU :

                                                                         Time

  Schedule for PMU

  1. Establishment of Project CRC                                        (Already exist)

  2. Review and approval/clear for RP by PPC/WB                          July 2012

  3. Commencement of public information                                  August 2012

  4. Commencement of Field works (DMS)                                   September 2012

  5. Commencement of payment of compensation                             September 2012

  Schedule for DPs

  1. Commencement for declaration of quantity and status of properties   August 2012

  2. Commencement for receiving compensation and ground clearance        September 2012

  Civil works                                                            October 2012

  Monitoring                                                             October 2012

  1. Establishment of Project CRC                                        (Already exist)

  2. Review and approval/clear for RP by PPC/WB                          July 2012

Discussion among Consultant, CCDC and PMU – NPC for the above proposed RP
implementation schedule has been held, taking into consideration the number of project, the
marginal impacts, without resettlement and possibility of parallel activities.
8.2 Institutional Arrangements
NPC, assigned by EVN, is responsible for all operations on investment guidelines,
investigation and design, project construction as well as supervision of compensation and
resettlement of the project including RP implementation. It will be assisted by provincial,
district and ward authorities and all relevant institutions
8.3 Complaint and Grievances
During the project implementation, DP‟s complaints and grievances will be dealt with
according to the Vietnamese laws and regulations. DPs raising complaints will be treated
fairly and guided by related agencies on the procedures and formalities for lodging their
complaints of RP with all administrative fees exempted throughout such process.
8.4 Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
The implementation of RP shall be constantly supervised and monitored by PMU – NPC.
Moreover, an independent external monitoring agency will be entrusted with independent
monitoring tasks. Such independent external monitoring agency will be selected and
contracted by PMU - NPC right after RP approval and will commence their supervision and
monitoring activities from the beginning of the RP implementation.


Vinaincon E&C                                                                            -9
-
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                   Resettlement
Plan

The result of selection of independent monitoring agency will be submitted to the WB for its
concurrence.
9. Costs and Budget
Cost Estimate
                                                      Unit:VND

        Components                                     Amount of Budget allocation

           1. Preparation of RP and DMS

           Initial stage (Preparation of RP)                            13.028.644

           Implementation stage (DMS)                                    7.812.545

           Sub – total 1                                                20.841.209

        2. Compensation and Rehabilitation

           Sub – total 2                                             6.868.485.560

        3. Management

           Management                                                  344.466.338

           Trainings,   workshop,       information
            campaign...                                                    720.000

           Sub – total 3                                               345.186.338

        4. External monitoring = 2% of (1+2)                           137.786.535

           Sub – total 3                                               137.786.535

        5. Contingency = 20% of (1+2)                                1.377.865.535

           Sub – total 4                                             1.377.865.535

           Grand total (1+2+3+4+5)                                   8.750.164.997

10. Disclosure
Drafts of Policy Framework and Entitlement Matrix have been disclosed at the People‟s
Committees of Ha Khau Ward and Ha long city.
Drafts of RP have been disclosed at the offices of the project related provincial People‟s
Committees and at Vietnam Development and Information Center (VDIC) of the World Bank
office in Hanoi
The final RP will be cleared by the WB and approved by EVN.




Vinaincon E&C                                                                             -
10 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                     Resettlement
Plan

                                      1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Project objectives
1.      Objectives:The objective of the proposed project would enable the supply of
sufficient power of acceptable quality to the rural retail level.


2.      Preliminary project description: The project would focus on rehabilitating and
increasing the capacity of existing distribution lines and substations and standardizing them
to 110, 35 and 22kV to enable them to meet the growing demand more efficiently, provide
better quality and quantity of electric power for productive uses, and reduce power system
losses.
        The project 110kV Cai Dam New urban area substation and 110kV branch will be
located on 52 Group, Ha Khau Ward, Ha long City, Quang Ninh Province, Vietnam.
1.2 Policy Framework
        This resettlement policy framework prepared based on the PO/BP 4.12 of the World
Bank on involuntary resettlement (December, 2001). The principle objective of the Policy
Framework is to ensure that all displaced persons (DP‟s) will be co mpensated for their losses
at replacement cost and provided with rehabilitation measures to assist them to improve, or at
least maintain, their pre- project living standards and income earning capacity.
        The Policy Framework lays down the principles and objectives, eligibility criteria of
DP‟s entitlements, legal and institutional framework, modes of compensation and
rehabilitation, peoples participation features and grievances procedures that will guide
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of the DP‟s.
1.3 Method of construction and operation of project:
      After finishing construction at work, PMU shall be tranfer the project to operation and
management departement.
1.4 Overall project Description
1.4.1 Scope of project
110kV Branch:
     - Voltage:               110 kV
     - Number of circuit :    02 circuit
      - Starting point:       Tower No 24 174 bay of 110 kV Hoanh Bo – Gieng Day
                              transmission power line
     - Ending point: :        Portice of 110kV Cai Dam New urban area substation
     - Length of T/L:         120m
     - Condoctor:             ACSR - 240/32, TK-50
     - Insulator:             glass-ceramic, porcerlain
     - Tower:                 steel
     - Foundation:            Ferro-concrete
110kV Cai Dam New urban area Substation
     - Voltage:               110 kV/22kV

Vinaincon E&C                                                                               -
11 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                         Resettlement
Plan

     - Capacity :              2x40MVA (Instalation 1x40MVA)
1.4.2 Project Efficiency
   Currently, the power supply from Gieng Day, Hoanh Bo Substation supply electricity
   for whole Halong city. But it is not good power supply. By the completion of the
   project, the power network will be stable and power, Improve effectiveness and quality
   of electricity supplying for living activities; improve the spiritual and material life of the
   people living in the project areas, speeding up development of industry and services;
   contributing part to the prosperity and stability of the socio-economic in the provinces.




Vinaincon E&C                                                                                   -
12 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                     Resettlement
Plan

                   2. INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
2.1 Institutional framework
2.1.1 Overall responsibility
The overall responsibility for enforcement of the policy framework and for planning and
implementing RP‟s rests with PMU - NPC and their relevant department/ Institutions. The
NPC is responsible for carrying out census, socio-economic survey and inventories and
preparing RPs and for the day-to-day implementation there of within their respective
jurisdiction. The people‟s committees at the district and commune levels will participate in
the RP preparation and implementation. These administrative units will also ensure the active
and effective of RP preparation and implementation. In order to have RPs acceptable to the
World Bank and to implement RP smoothly, NPC is responsibility for i) hiring qualified
consultants to prepare RPs; ii) appointing qualified social safeguard staff in PMU and
Compensation and Resettlement committees.
       The following institutional will be involved in preparing and implementing the RP:
   -   Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN)
   -   Power Network Project Management Board (PMU) - Power Company 1 (NPC)
   -   District Resettlement Committees (DRCs)
   -   Consultant Companies (Consultant)
   -   Land offices and industrial offices of the above project districts.
   -   People's Committees of communes.
   -   Consultant Companies (Consultant)
   -   Land offices and industrial offices of the above project districts.
   -   DPs and their representatives, including EM elders.
2.1.2 The functions, tasks forces and responsibility of
i) Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN)
       Electricity of Viet Nam is the executing agency of the project. A Central Steering
Committee (CSC) will be established at the national level, at EVN, and will convene if
requested, by any its members to discuss common problems affecting project
implementation. It will consist of senior official from the Ministry of Industry (MOI) or EVN
as chairperson, project's Region Power Companies and Project provinces as its members.
Specific tasks pertaining to resettlement include: Speedy resolution of resettlement issues
amongst subproject provinces
ii) PMU-NPC
     A Project Management Unit (PMU) willbe established at the NPC the MV developer
implementing investment of the project.
     PMU is also responsible for overall implementation of resettlement activities and
acquisition for the project of the RP. Key resettlement responsibilities of the PMU are
follows:
   -   Establish master plan, management and supervision of RP implemetation.




Vinaincon E&C                                                                               -
13 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                       Resettlement
Plan

     -   Responsibile for organizing information dissemination/disclosure, public meetings;
         disclose RP to all relevant local authorities, Resettlement Commitees, disseminate
         DMS and Entitlement forms to all DPs.
     -   Organizing/training for survey team to carry out the Detail Measurement Survey
         (DMS) and RP implementation for all levels of People‟s Committtees and relevant
         agencies.
     -   Report the RP implementation progess and land clearance work to WB and EVN.
iii) Provincial People's Committee (PPC):
     -   The project province is responsible for adopting the Resettlement Policy Framework
         and endorsing the RP and clearly direct/demarcate the responsibilities for their
         relevant institutions in implementing RP.
     -   Approve the compensation unit costs, allowances and establishing appraising
         committees, compensation committees at all different administrative levels and
         approve lands for compensation.
     -   Redress complaints and grievances.
iv) Departmentof Finance, Construction Department and Department of Natural resource
and Environment
        The Department of Finance is responsible for researching and issuing prices of
compensation and then proposes to PPCs for approval. At the beginning of the implementation
the Department of Finance will closely co-ordinate with Construction Departments, Land
Offices, Agricultural and Development Departments, People's Committee districts and
independent monitoring agency in order to evaluate the applied unit prices and propose to PPCs
for adjustment, if necessary for ensuring that the compensation unit price are at the replacement
value at the time of compensation payment.
v) Districts People's Committees
        The district People Committees are responsible for identification of land and
structures appointing members of the DRCs and assigning functional tasks for the DRCs.
vi) District Resettlement Committees (DRC)
        The District DRCs are princial institution responsible for the implementation of RP in
their respective district araes. The District DRCs recruit experienced personnel for gathering of
base-line information and inventory. The District DRCs is responsible for:
        Organize the survey team to carry out Detail Measuremant Survey (DMS) for affected
         houses and assets; finalize DMS and Entitlement forms for each DP.
        Checking the units price of compensation sa applied in RP, suggest for adjusting the
         unit price in comformation with market prices/replacement costs (is required)
        In co-ordination with PMB, organize the meetings with DPs, communes, disseminate
         the RIB, DMS and entitlement forms to DPs.
        Based on the policy and approved process in PR, prepare the detailed implementation
         plan (quarterly, semi-annual, annual plans) and the together with PMUs pay
         entitlements to DPs in timely manner.
        Setting the complaints and grievances of DPs, solving any dissiculties during the
         implemantation period, and suggest the solutions for the outstanding issues to Province
         DRC

Vinaincon E&C                                                                                 -
14 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                       Resettlement
Plan

     The District DRCs will be haeded by the Vice Chairmen of the District People‟s
Committee.s The District DRCs will consisted of the following representatives:
        Department of Finance and Pricing
        Department of Nutural Resouces & Environment (Housing and Cadastral Bureau)
        Department of Industry
        Affected Communes
        DPs
vii) Commune People's Committees
People's Committees of communes will be responsible for
     -   Contribute to census and inventory surveys.
     -   In co-ordination with Resettlement Committees of districts for public meetings,
         information; dissemination, compensation/ allowance payment to DPs.
     -   Transfer all feedback by DPs to District Compensation Committees and settle the
         complication at the communal level. Suggest the solution for the outstanding issues (if
         any).
     -   Assisting local people in overcoming the difficulties during the construction period.
         Arrange land for land in the case DPs request compensation by land for land.
ix) Project Displaced Persons (DPs)
        DPs are responsible for carefully checking on their lost assets and respective
entitlements, clear land in a timely manner once DPs receive full entitlements.
The RP implementation institutional organization Chart
2.2 Legal framework
2.2.1. Vietnamese Laws
       The legal framework of the Government of Vietnam: The key national laws, decrees
governing land acquisition, compensation and resettlement in Vietnam consists of the
following:
        Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in 1992 confirms civil rights on
         house ownership and protects such ownership.
        Law on Land in 2003 promulgated on 10th December 2003.
        Decree No. 181/2004/ND-CP of the Government promulgated on 29th October 2004
         on guiding implementation of Law on Land amended in 2003.
        Decree No. 197/2004/ND-CP of the Government promulgated on 3rd December 2004
         on compensation, support and resettlement when land is reclaimed by the State.
        Decree No. 188/2004/ND-CP of the Government promulgated on 16 th November
         2004 on methods of determining land prices and assorted the land price frame.
        Circular No. 144/2004/TT-BTC of the Ministry of Finance promulgated on 26 th
         November 2004 on guiding implementation of Decree No. 188/2004/ND-CP.




Vinaincon E&C                                                                                 -
15 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                       Resettlement
Plan

      Decree No. 17/2006/ND-CP of the Government dated 27th January 2006 on amending
       and supplementing some regulations in decrees on guiding the implementation of law
       on land.
      Decree No. 84/2007/ND-CP of the Government dated 25th May 2007 on amending the
       promulgation of Certificate on Land Use Rights, Land Occupation, exercising land
       use rights, procedures on compensation and resettlement in case of the State‟s land
       occupation and claim.
      Decree No. 69/2009/ND-CP dated 13th August 2009 of the Government on
       additionally providing for land use planning, land prices, land recovery,
       compensation, support and resettlement.
   -   The 2003 Land Law (passed by the National Assembly on November 26, 2003)
       regulates the land management and land uses, with effective data of July, 01, 2004,
       provides that “the persons with land to be recovered shall be compensated with the
       assignment of new land of the same use puposes; if having no land for compensation,
       shall be compensated with the land use right valua at the time of issuance of the
       recovery decisions. The People‟s Committees of the provinces and cities directly
       under the central government shall elaborate and execute resettlement projects before
       the land recovery for compenstion with dwelling houses, residential land for persons
       having residential lanf recovered and having to move their places of residence. The
       resettlement sites must have developement condictions being equal to or better than
       the condictions in the former places of residence. In cases of having no resettlement
       land, the persons having land recovered shall be compensated with money and given
       priority to purchase or lease dwelling houses under the State‟s ownership, for urban
       areas; be compensated with residential land for rural areas. In case of recovering land
       of household and/or individuals, that are directly engaged in production, but having
       no land for compensation for continued production, apart from pecuniary
       compensations, the persons having land recovered shall be supported by the State to
       stabilize their lives, with training for change of their production and/or business lines,
       with the arrangement of new job
Item 4 – Land Acquisition
Art. 39      Regulates the land acquisition for the purposes of national defense, security,
      national interests and public interests. Clause 2 of this Article clearly defined the
      public info (at least 3 months prior to agricultural land acquisition and 6 months prior
      to non agricultural land acquisition) on the reasons of land acquisition, time schedule,
      resettlement plan, and compensation/ground clearance mater plan for land acquisition.
Art. 42 Regulates the compensation and resettlement of the people who have land being
       acquired:
            Clause 1         „… people, who have LURC or having sufficient conditions to
                          have LURC shall be compensated for their acquired land…‟
            Clause 2           „… the acquired land shall be compensated with new land of
                          similar using purpose; in case of lack of resettlement land, the
                          compensation shall be equal to the value of land use right at the
                          time of land acquisition…‟
            Clause 3       „… provincial People‟s Committees and Cities directly under the
                          central government prepare and implement the resettlement plans
                          prior to the land acquisition … The resettlement sites planed for

Vinaincon E&C                                                                                 -
16 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                     Resettlement
Plan

                        various projects in the same area and should have similar to or
                        better development conditions than the old dwelling sites.‟
                        In case of lack of resettlement sites: (i) in urban areas „ DPs shall
                        be compensated in cash and have the priority to buy or rent the
                        state –owned houses, and (ii) in rural areas „in case the value of the
                        acquired residential land is higher than that of the resettlement in
                        cash for the differences‟.
           Clause 4       „…in case DPs whose productive land being acquired and there is
                        no productive land for „land for land‟ compensation, apart from the
                        cash compensation, DPs shall receive assistance for resettlement,
                        training for new trades, employing in new trades.‟
           Clause 49, 50 define the conditions for issuance of LURC to the extend that (i)
                        „HH or individual who directly using the land for agricultural,
                        forestry, aquaculture and salt productive in the areas of socio-
                        economic difficulties in the mountainous areas or islands and who
                        have their residential registration and certification from their
                        commune People‟s Committee that they had been using the land
                        stably and without disputes are being issued with LURC and do not
                        have to pay for the land use‟, (ii) „HH or individual who had been
                        stably using the land before Oct. 15,1993 but without any legal
                        papers and their commune People‟s Committee certifies that their
                        land is without disputes and apt to the approved local land use plan
                        are being issued with LURC and do not have to pay for the land
                        use‟,(iii) „HH or individual who had been stably using the land
                        from Oct.15,1993 till the effective of this Law, but without any
                        legal papers and their commune People‟s Committee certifies that
                        their land is without disputes and apt to the approved local land use
                        plan are being issued with LURC and do have to pay for the land
                        use‟.
           Clauses 56   define the State controlled Land Price: (i) the land price verification
                        by the State should ensure the principles i.e. „close to the actual
                        value of the transfer of land use rights on the market and when
                        there is large difference between the verified land price and the
                        actual value of the transfer of land use rights on the market,
                        adjustment should be carried out, (ii) „Government regulates the
                        method of land price verification for each region at each period and
                        land price adjustment and dealing with differences of land prices at
                        the borders of the provinces and cities directly under the central
                        government „ , and (iii) „Land price defined by the People‟s
                        Committee of the provinces and cities directly under the central
                        government is publicly announce on January 1st every year…‟
   -   GOV Decree No.181/2004 ND-CP dt. 29 October, 2004 defined the Implemantation
       of The 2003 Land Law as defined the methodology for defining prices framework of
       various types and categories of land, compensation, assistance and resettlement in
       case of land acquisition by the State.etc
   -   GOV Decree No.188/2004 ND-CP dt. 16November, 2004 on methodology for
       defining prices and prices framework of various types and categories of land.


Vinaincon E&C                                                                               -
17 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                                 Resettlement
Plan

                This Decree setforth the minimum and maximum prices of different types and
                categories of land covering the whole country. These have been established for the
                purpose of land acquisition by Government, tax value for transfer of land use rights,
                leasing government land national and public purpose.
                The methodologies for the land price verification elaborated in this Decree are to
                ensure the substitution cost of the land.
       -       Circular No.114/2004/TT-BTC dt. 26 November 2004 of the Ministry of Finance
               guiding the implementation of the above stated Decree.
                This Circular elaborates in details the methodologies (i.e. direct comparison method
                and income method) for the land price verification of different types and categories of
                land in different regions/areas to ensure the replacement cost.
       -       GOV Decree No.197/2004/ND-CP dt. 03 December 2004 on the compensation,
               assistance and resettlement in case of land acquisition by the State.
Art. 6           „… people who have land being acquired shall be compensated with land of similar
               land use purpose. If there is no land for compensation, cash compensation equal to
               land use rights value at the time of land acquisition shall be applied. If there is any
               difference in value, in case of compensation by new land or house, such differences
               shall be settled in cash.
Art.19             „…. houses and structures of domestic use of the household or individual shall be
               compensation with the value of construction of new house, structures of similar
               technical standard…‟
       -       Circular No.116/2004/TT-BTC dt. 07 December 2004 of the Ministry of Finance
               guiding the implementation of Decree No.197/2004/ND-CP.
       -       Decisions of Ha Khau Ward People‟s Committees on the applicable unit prices for
               compensation.
2.2.2. World Bank policies
(i)        The primary objective of WB policies is to explore all alternatives to avoid or at least
           minimize involuntary resettlement. Where resettlement is unavoidable, the living standards
           of displace persons should be restored or improved relative to those conditions that
           prevailed prior to the project. The policy applies to the taking of land and other assets when
           land acquisition results in the loss of shelter, the loss of all or part of productive assets, or
           access to them, and the loss of income sources or other means of livelihood.
(ii)       Measures required to ensure that resettlement has a positive outcome include:
           -     Consulting with potential Project-affected people on feasible measures for
                 resettlement and rehabilitation;
           -     Providing Project-affected persons with options for resettlement and rehabilitation;
           -     Enabling their participation in planning and selecting these options
           -     Choosing relocation sites that provide, at a minimum, the same benefits and services
                 as the sites the replace;
           -     Providing allowances, training and income support to assist in making a smooth
                 transition;
           -     Identifying vulnerable groups and providing special assistance to these groups; and


Vinaincon E&C                                                                                           -
18 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                         Resettlement
Plan

       -   Establishing an institutional and organizational structure that supports this process to
           a successful end.
(iii) Eligibility Criteria and Compensation
       -   The displaced or project-affected people eligible for compensation will include:
           (a)those who have formal legal right to land or other assets; (b)those who initially do
           not have formal legal rights to land or other assets but have a claim to legal rights
           based upon the laws of the country; upon the permission of local authorities to
           occupy or use the project affected plots; and c)those who have no recognizable legal
           right or claim to the land they are occupying.
       -   Persons covered under (a) and (b) are provided compensation for the land they lose
           and other assistance. Persons covered under (c) are provided resettlement assistance,
           in lieu of compensation for the land they occupy and other assistance, as necessary,
           to achieve the objectives set out in this policy, if they occupy the project area prior
           to a cut-off dates defined in RPs. Persons who encroach on the areas after the cut-off
           data defined in the RPs are not entitled to compensation or any form of resettlement
           assistance.
(iv) Valuation of Compensation for losses
The methodology to be used in the valuation of losses for Bank-associated Project is based on
their replacement cost. In this project, losses comprise land, structures and other assets.
Replacement cost for land includes the value of land at market price plus the cost taxes and
fees to get Land Use Right Certificate (LURC). For houses and other structures, the market
cost of the materials should be used to calculate the replacement cost to build a replacement
structures with an area and the quality should be at least as good as those affected. For both
totally and partially affected structures, compensation includes market cost of material, plus
the costs of material transport, labor and constructor fees, registration and transfer taxes.
Depreciation of the asset and amount saved in materials will not form apart of replacement
cost.
2.2.3. Comparison between GOV and World Bank approaches
      There are many approaches of the Government of Vietnam – both policy and practice
– compatible with WB‟s guidelines. The most important approaches are:
       Vietnam applies a procedure in which most of persons having no legal land use rights
       can also obtain the legalization and compensation for damages.
        Fixed residents are provided with solutions including removing to the improved
       resettlement area, compensating in cash or both.
        Resettlement areas not only have better infrastructure and service but also prove a
       higher living standard.
       Allowances facilitate DPs during their transition period and release a legislative
       mechanism, through that, the local people are informed and entitled to negotiate about
       compensation and make claims.
       Within the framework of this program, differences in approaches and measures must
       be specified. However, under this perspective, procedures of the central and local
       authorities enable to reject some articles in the country for some certain projects, which
       may conflict to the similar regulations of sponsors.



Vinaincon E&C                                                                                   -
19 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                       Resettlement
Plan

        Regarding land ownership and legal rights to be compensated, approaches of the
       Government and WB are compatible. The Government applies procedures in which
       land occupation without legal papers can be legalized. However, this land is still
       compensated with 100% of land price deducting taxes/fees to legalize land use rights
       since 15th October 1993 (Sections 49 and 50 of Article 42 Law on Land in 2003).
        Compensation at the replacement price is specified in Article 6 of Decree No.
       197/2004/ND-CP dated 3rd December 2004, concretely: „…Person whose using land is
       reclaimed for any purpose shall be compensated by assigning new land with the same
       land use purpose; if no land is available for compensation, land use rights shall be
       compensated at the approval date of land recovery decision; in case of compensation by
       assigning new land or house, if difference is available, such difference shall be paid in
       cash; Article 19 of this Decree also specifies „….regarding houses and domestic works
       of households and individuals, it is compensated by new construction value of house
       and buildings with similar technical specifications …..‟
2.2.4 Required waivers
Differences between the approaches and measures that need to be addressed within the
program also exist. However, in this context, procedures exist within national and provincial
governments that allow the granting of waivers of domestic law on specific projects that may
be in conflict with that of the funding agency.
In order to carry out the RP in accordance to World Bank PO/BP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement a number of articles in various Vietnamese laws and regulations which do not
ensure compensation at replacement cost or set eligibility provisions which do not extend the
right to compensation and rehabilitation to households to households without proper land
papers, will be waived i.e.:
Eligibility to Compensation and/or Assistance
Decree 197/2004/ND-CP dt.Dec.03, 2004
Article 7
         This article (cases where land is recovered without compensation) stipulates that any
         person whose land is recovered and who has not met one of the conditions of Article
         8 of this Decree, or who has violated the plan, or who violates the protecting corridor
         work, or who illegally occupies land shall not receive compensation when the state
         recovers the land. In case of necessity, the Provincial People‟s Committee shall
         conider and decides on a case – by – case basis.
Article 18,19 and 20:
               Houses and structures on non -eligible-for-compensation land, which have not
                violated announced land use plans or the right of way will not be assisted at
                80% of replacement cost.
               Houses and structures on non -eligible-for-compensation land, which have not
                violated announced land use plans or the right of way will not be assisted. If
                necessary, the PPC will consider on the case basis.
Article 28 and 29:
         DPs losing more than 10% of productive land will be entitled to living stabilization
         and training/job creation assistance



Vinaincon E&C                                                                                 -
20 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                       Resettlement
Plan

To ensure that the objectives of this resettlement policy are met, a special decision of the
Government waiving Article 7,18,19, 20, 28, 29 of Decree 197 is needed to permit assistance
and rehabilitation measures for illegal users of land as proposed in the policy.
Land price for Compensation Calculation
According to the Vietnamese regulation the unit price for land compensation will be based on
GOV Decrees 197/2004/ND-CP and 188/2004/ND/Cp along with their Guidance (Circular
No.114/2004/TT- BTC and No.116/2004/TT-BTC respectively).
Decree 1997/2004/ND-CP dt.Dec. 03, 2004
Article 7
        This article states that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the establishment of
        a number or overall new land price framework to submit to the Government for
        adjustment when prevailing price of transfer of land use rights in the market in
        respect of a number or all types/categories of land listed in the land price framework
        continuously fluctuated (more than 60 days in many provinces, cities) that causes
        large differences in land prices (increasing from  30% compare to the max. price
        and decreasing from  30% compare to min. prices attached to this Decree).
Article 9
        This article states that land price for the compensation calculation is the land price in
        respect of land use purpose at the time of land acquisition, promulgated by the
        provincial People‟s Committee in line with the Government regulation (within the
        GOV‟s range of minimum and maximum prices).
Decree 188/2004/ND-CP dt. Nov. 16, 2004
        This Decree promulgates the methodologies to define land price and, at the same
        time, set forth the land price framework (min. and max. unit price for various types of
        land) throughout the country
Article 2
        This article states that the land price shall be defined by the provincial People‟s.
        Committees and/or cities directly under the central government.
To ensure that the objectives of the project resettlement policy are met, unit price for land
compensation established by the Project provincial/city People‟s Committees will be adjusted
to meet the replacement costs.
Assistance policy for DPs who rent houses from the government
Decree 197/2004/ND-CP dt.Dec.03, 2004
Article 21
        This article states that DPs who rent government house and has to be relocated by
        self- relocation shall be assisted in cash at a rate equal to 60% of the cost of the
        currently rented house and 60% of the cost of the land value, in cases of no
        resettlement house to be arranged for them.
Assistance policy for rehabilitation
Decree 197/2004/ND-CP dt.Dec.03, 2004
Article 28


Vinaincon E&C                                                                                 -
21 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                              Resettlement
Plan

            This article states that DPs who directly do the agricultural production having
            agricultural land being acquired more than 10% shall received rehabilitation
            assistance (cash value of 30kg of average rice in the location per head) for 3 months
            (if relocation is not required), 6 months (if relocation is required) and 12 months (if
            moving to the areas of specially difficult socio – economic conditions).
GOV Commitments
To ensure that the objectives of the policy are met, the Prime Minister of Vietnam and
Chairpersons of the project provinces in approving/adopting (prior to the project appraisal)
the policies and objectives set forth in this Policy Framework will grant the waivers to the
above mentioned Articles 7, 9, 18, 19, 20, 21, 28 and 20 of Decrees 197/2004/ND-Cp and
Article 2 of Decree 188/2004/ND-CP, and any other laws or regulations which contradict this
Project Resettlement Policy.
The waivers will be approved by GOV in the decision of project investment before
negotiation. The Project Provincial People Committees will issue the official letter for their
agreement in implementing the policies set forth in RP.
2.3. Definition of Eligibility and Limitation to Eligibility
       -   All DPs, who are all individuals, firms or institution with or without land registration
           papers who owned, rented, or used land, properties and business, which are affected
           by project.
       -   All DPs will be entitled to full compensation for their respective losses as long as they
           are included in the RP inventory list or can prove that they owned the affected items
           before the cut-off date. The same applies to DPs whose incomes are affected by the
           project.
The cut-off date has been fixed prior to the commencement of the socio-economic surveys and
inventory, the 31 of July 2007. The cut-off date has been declared officially by the competent
local authorities in the very first community meetings (during May and June 2007) in each
project related commue.
Encroachers who settled into the proposed affeted area after the cut-off date will have no
entitlement to compecsation and resetlement. They will be riquired to demolish their structure
and cut the trees or harverst their crops for land clearance to the project. Nevertheless, they do
not have to pay any fine or sanction. The cut-off date and the provision of “no compensation for
encroachers “ has been clearly declared in the community meeting and printed in the pamphlets.
2.4 Resettlement and Compensation principles
Principles and objectives of this RP are defined in accordance with Vietnamese laws and OP/BP
4.12 of WB. Vietnamese legislation and WB Policies have been adapted to fit the specific
conditions of the project as defined below:
(i)        Acquisition of land and other assets, and resettlement of people will be minimized as
           much as possible.
(ii)       All DP‟s residing, working, doing business or cultivating land in right of way (ROW) of
           distribution line (D/L), surrounding areas of tower foundation, the Substation areas, in
           the service roads under the project as of the date of the baseline surveys are entitled to be
           provided with rehabilitation measures sufficient to assist them to improve or at least
           maintain their pre-project living standards, income earning capacity and production
           levels. Lack of legal rights to the assets lost should not bar the DP from entitlement to
           such rehabilitation measures

Vinaincon E&C                                                                                        -
22 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                             Resettlement
Plan

(iii)      The rehabilitation measures to be provided are:
       -   Compensation at replacement cost, without deduction for depreciation or salvage
           materials for houses and other structures
       -   Agricultural land for land of equal productive capacity acceptable to the DPs or in cash
           at replacement cost according to DP‟s choice;
       -   replacement of residential/premise land of equal size acceptable to the DP or in cash at
           replacement cost according to DP‟s choice; and
       -   Transfer and subsistence allowances
(iv)       Replacement residential and agricultural land will be as nearby as possible to the land
           that was lost, and acceptable to the DPs
(v)        The resettlement transition period will be minimized and the rehabilitation means will be
           provided to the DP‟s prior to the expected star-up date of works in the respective project
           site.
(vi)       plans for acquisition of land and other assets and provision of rehabilitation measures
           will be carried out in consultation with the DP‟s, to ensure minimal disturbance.
           Entitlements will be provided by DP‟s prior to expected start-up of works at the
           respective project site.
(vii)      The previous level of community services and resources will be maintained or improved.
(viii) Financial and physical resources for resettlement and rehabilitation will be made
       available and as where and when required
(ix)       Institutional arrangements will ensure effective and timely design, planning, consultation
           and implementation of RPs
(x)        Effective and timely supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of
           RPs will be carried out.
2.5. Eligibility to compensation Entitlement
The DPs‟ (or project-affected people) eligible for compensation will include:
(i)        Those who have formal legal rights to land or other assets;
(ii)       Those who initially do not have formal legal rights to land or other assets but have a
           claim to legal rights base upon the laws; upon the possession of documents such as land
           tax receipts and residence certificates; or upon the permission of local authorities to
           occupy or use the project affected plots; and
(iii)      Those who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying – if
           they occupy the project area prior to the cut-off date defined in the RP.
The DPs are identified by the baseline information collected for RP:
(i)        Persons whose houses are in part or total affected (temporary or permanently) by the
           project;
(ii)       Persons whose residential and premise and /or agricultural land is in part or total affected
           (temporary or permanently) by the project;
(iii)      Persons whose crops (annual and perennial) and trees are affected in part or total by the
           project;



Vinaincon E&C                                                                                       -
23 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                         Resettlement
Plan

(iv)       Persons whose business are affected in part or total (temporary or permanently) by the
           project;
2.6 Compensation policy
Compensation for crops will be provided at market price. Compensation for land, houses,
buildings, tree and other assets will be provided at the replacement cost.
Compensation for land losses:
       -   Compensation for productive land losses (less than 10% of total land DPs‟ holdings) will
           be provided at the replacement cost for the equivalent area and all other losses will be
           provided in cash.
       -   Compensation for productive land losses over 10% of total DPs‟ land holdings will be
           provided in terms of land for land at the equivalent cost according to DPs‟ options.
Compensation for land, houses, buildings and trees will be provided in cash at the replacement
costs.
Compensation for crops will be given in cash at the current market rates calculated on the
productive average of the last three years.
Compensation prices have been defined in this RP are tariffs established by the provinces based
on the Decrees 197/2004/ND-CP and 188/2004/ND-CP.
Since the time from RP preparation to time of the project implementation may be long at the
implementation time, such prices may not correspond to market or replacement rates. Therefore,
all applied prices will be checked again at the beginning of RP implementation and adjusted if
necessary. The Detailed Measurement Survey (DMS) will also be carried out by Resettlement
Committees at the very beginning of project implementation. The evaluation of unit prices at the
implementation time will be done by independent monitoring agency, provincial DOF. This
activity will later be required in TOR for Independent Monitoring.




Vinaincon E&C                                                                                   -
24 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                      Resettlement
Plan



                               3. ENTITLEMENT POLICY
3.1 Impact Categories
3.1.1 Temporary impact within ROWs
       All the DPs has productive land, crops, trees or structures in Right of Way (ROW) of
transmission line (T/L), surrounding areas of tower foundations, in the temporary service
roads, which are temporarily affected only during the construction period.
Category 1: DP who has trees, crops, which are damaged by the project during the
construction period due to construction of temporary access roads or conductor stringing.
Category 2: DP who has residential, garden, productive land, which are temporarily acquired
during the project construction period.
3.1.2 Permanent impact
        All DPs who have productive land, crops, trees or structures in ROW of T/L, surrounding
areas of tower foundation, in the temporary service roads, which are temporarily affected only
during the construction period.
Category 3:DP who has houses/ structure, which are partially damaged or cut, and the
damaged portion will not affect to the safety or using purpose of the entire house or structure
(the dismantled areas are ≤ 10% of total areas), and the lost house/structure portion could be
rebuilt in adjacent areas already owned by the DP. Impact on cleared residential land in ROW
would be temporary as it could be reused for restricted purposes.
Category 4:DP who has house, which are partially or totally damaged, and the damaged
portion will affects to the safety or using purpose of the entire house or structure (the
dismantled areas are more than 10% of total areas or even less than 10% of total area, but the
remaining area can not be used or inconvenient for using), so the house need to the totally
removed and rebuild in remaining adjacent areas already owned by the DPs. Impact on
cleared residential areas will be temporary as it can be reused for restricted purposes
Category 5:DP who has houses, which are partially or totally damaged, and the damaged
portion will affects to the safety or using purpose of the entire house or structure, so the
house/ structure need to be totally removed and rebuild. But DP dose not have sufficient
spare residential land for the reconstruction of a house of equal dimensions as the house lost.
The threshold of sufficient residential land is at 100m2 for rural areas.
Category 6:DP who has residential land, productive land which will be acquired permanently
for the project, including for permanent roads construction and maintenance of the project
   (a) Acquired productive land areas are more than 10% of total productive land DPs‟
       holdings.
   (b) Acquired productive land areas is less than 10% of total productive land DPs‟
       holdings
   (c) The remaining residential-garden land areas are less than 100m2 (in rural areas).
   (d) The remaining residential-garden land areas are equal or more than 100m2 (in rural
       areas).
Category 7:DP impacted permanently or temporarily on business or other services
Category 8:Impacts on public works i.e. schools, water supply resources, sewage systems,

Vinaincon E&C                                                                                -
25 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                          Resettlement
Plan

and roads…
3.2 Entitlement
3.2.1 Eligibility and Limitation to Eligibility
      DPs are all individuals, firms or institution with or without land registration papers
who owned, rented, or used land, properties and business, which are affected by project.
        All DPs will be entitled to full compensation for their respective losses as long as they
are included in the RP inventory list or can prove that they owned the affected items before
the cut-off date. The same applies to DPs whose incomes are affected by the project.
       The cut-off date has been fixed prior to the commencement of the socio-economic
surveys and inventory, the 31 of July 2007. The cut-off date has been declared officially by the
competent local authorities in the very first community meetings (during May and June, 2007) in
each project related commue.
        Encroachers who settled into the proposed affeted area after the cut-off date will have no
entitlement to compecsation and resetlement. They will be riquired to demolish their structure
and cut the trees or harverst their crops for land clearance to the project. In case necessary, they
will be forced to be removed out the proposed project area. Nevertheless, they do not have to
pay any fine or sanction. The cut-off date and the provision of “no compensation for encroachers
“ has been clearly declared in the community meeting and printed in the pamphlets.
3.2.2 Compensation Entitlement by categories

 Category      Entitlement

 1                Cash compensation for affected trees, crops at replacement cost plus cost
                   for cutting trees, crops at market price
                  No compensation for land.
                  Reinstate land after the project construction.

 2                Cash compensation for affected trees, crops at replacement cost plus cost
                   for cutting trees, crops at market price.
                  No compensation for land.
                  Reinstate land after the project construction.

 3                The damaged house/ structure will be compensation in cash at full at full
                   replacement
                  No compensation for land.
                  No deduction for depreciation and salvage materials.

 4                Cash compensation reflecting full replacement cost of the house/ structure.
                  Cash compensation reflecting full replacement cost of lost land area.
                  No deduction for depreciation and salvage materials.

 5                DP can opt for:
                   (i) „ land for land ‟: the provision of replacement residential land ( house
                       site and garden ) of equivalent size, satisfactory to the DP or cash

Vinaincon E&C                                                                                    -
26 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                    Resettlement
Plan

                    compensation reflecting full replacement cost according to DP‟s
                    choice and
                (ii) Cash compensation reflecting full replacement cost of the house/
                     structures
               No deduction for depreciation and salvage materials.

 6          DP losing productive land
            Land loss < 10% of their total landholdings
               Cash compensation for the lost area if the remaining plot is still
                economically viable.
               Cash compensation for the whole impacted plot if the remaining plot is
                not economically viable.
               Cash compensation for properties associated with land
            Land loss ≥ 10% of their total landholdings
            DP can opt for the followings:
                (i) “ Land for land? with the same area and productive of impacted area
                    if the remaining plots are still economic- viable and for the whole
                    impacted plots if the remaining plots are not economic – viable.
                (ii) Cash for land at the replacement cost.
               Compensation for trees and affected fruit trees at the replacement cost.
               Rehabilitation assistance.
            DP losing Residential and garden land
               If remaining land is sufficient for reorganizing (more than 60m2 in the
                urban area and 100m2 in the rural area): Cash compensation for lost area
                and assets associated with land.
               If remaining land is not sufficient for reorganizing:
            DP can ops for:
                (i) Cash compensation at replacement cost for land and assets on land, or
                (ii) “ land for land? compensation for the whole residential area which
                      DP occupied (not only for the impacted areas) and properties
                      associated with occupied land. For affected house and building, the
                      same entitlement to DP of categories 3 or 4 or 5.

 7          Temporary impact
            Compensation for income lost during the affected period
            Permanent impact
               Provision of alternative business site of equal size and accessibility to
                customers and satisfactory to DP.
               Cash compensation for lost business structure reflecting full replacement
                cost of the structures without depreciation.


Vinaincon E&C                                                                              -
27 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                     Resettlement
Plan

                  Cash compensation for the lost of income during the transition period.

 8           The community infrastructures shall be restore at no cost to the community.


3.2.3 Allowances
Apart from the direct compensation for the losses, DPs are entitled to additional assistance
(subsidies/allowances) as stipulated in the GOV Decree N0.197/2004/ND-CP.
Transport allowance
Art.27 of Decree 197/2004/ND-CP: all relocating DPs are entitled in one time:

- DPs relocating within the province/city         max 3,000,000 VND (per household)

- DPs relocating out of the province              max 5,000,000 VND (per household)

- Relocated DPs (while waiting for the - to be provided with temporary residence
  establishment of the new resettlement
                                        or
  residences at resettlement site
                                        - to be provided with temporary rent cost

Relocation subsidy
Art.28 of Decree 197/2004/ND-CP: all relocating DPs are entitled in one time:

- DPs relocating within the province/city         Cash (equivalent to 30kg of rice per month
                                                  x 3 months) per family member.

- DPs relocating out of the province              Cash (equivalent to 30kg of rice per month
                                                  x 6 months) per family member.

- DPs who are in a severe socio-economic Cash (equivalent to 30kg of rice per month
  difficulties or who relocating to areas of x 12 months) per family member.
  socio-economic difficulties.

Relocation subsidy
Art.28 of Decree 197/2004/ND-CP

DPs who have more than 10% of productive 1,500,000VND (per main labor)
land or incomes permanently affected are
entitled to trainings
and

Other restoration allowance                     To be decided by the provincial People‟s
                                                Committees with financial resource from the
                                                person who is going to use the acquired land




Vinaincon E&C                                                                               -
28 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                           Resettlement
Plan

         4. MEASURES TO MINIMIZE LAND ACQUISITION AND LOSSES
4.1 Consultation and Participation
        Project team direct discussion with the participants and relevant agencies and
organizations on the project issues; exchange of information on local land use issues as well
as other assets
        Project team gave presentation on project scope; discussion with the participants on
the project impact and proposed mitigation measures; distributing questionnaires to the
participants to collect their inputs.
        In the period of project preparation, the consultation with local authorities and
participation of local people for selecting sites of substations, alignment of routes were
carried out by CCDC . The valuable feedback of local authorities and DPs were taken into
account for design.
       All DPs are encouraged to have the power supply networks extended by the project,
they would like to have the power supply lines nearest possible to our houses; they would like
to have compensation for impacted land or other assets in accordance with the government
defined entitlements.
4.2 Impact limitation measures in Design stage
Route Selection
       The investigation and design of route have tried to completely avoid passing the market,
densely populated areas, villages, pagoda, protection forests, natural preserved areas, historic
and cultural assets...etc. The T/L will not run near or parallel with communication system,
gasoline and weapon storages.
        To avoid or mitigate impacts, the direction of the routes has been selected so thus they
only either run within the ROW along existing roads, or pass agricultural land or homestead
garden land. There are applied the turning angles of the routes, in some cases the turning
direction angles are up to 35°-85°. In the case necessary, the angles may be about 90°. With
this solution, the routes will pass through the road in several times to avoid impacts to the houses/
structures.
        The selected T/L will be no exceeding l km far from the axis of existing national
roads. Therefore, limiting to build new roads for construction but using the axis of existing
national roads.
        For each sub-project, at least 02-03 alternatives of route locations are studied and
the optimum alternative is selected.
     To mitigate impacts, temporary service roads would be built mainly in the area of
ROW (along the route).
       The predominantly applied technical option of the out-door, hanging on pole-
mounted substation type, besides of others, also contribute to reducing extent of project
land acquisition.
4.1.3 Impact Limitation Measures in Construction stage
        Suitable measures and optimum arrangements for the project construction have
been considered, such as construction would be started after the harvest of crops and
terminated before the next sowings. In order to meet this target, some working shifts in days
will be scheduled for shortening the temporarily affected time.


Vinaincon E&C                                                                                     -
29 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                       Resettlement
Plan

        The construction camps for workers in the construction period will be located on the bare
or public lands near by headquarters of communes. The camps will not to be built in populated
areas




Vinaincon E&C                                                                                 -
30 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                         Resettlement
Plan

                              5. PEOPLE’S PARTICIPATION
5.1. Community Meetings
         During the project preparation (along with RP preparation), CCDC , NPC‟s PMU have
held meetings in april, 2009 with the participation of DPs and representatives of Commune
People‟s Committees, other government offices and commune NGOs (Women Unions, Youth
Unions, Farmers Associations, Fatherland Front, War Veteran etc.) where the project related
issues i.e. project investment financial resources, project objectives, project components etc. are
explained by PMUs representatives
        The proposed layouts of D/L routes are also displayed in the meetings along with
discussions and consultation with the local authorities and local people on possible impacts
caused by the project, project site selection, alignment of routes etc. so as the proposed selected
line route and DSSs are the least impact option.
       In the meetings, DPs queries on RP related issues i.e. entitlement, compensation etc. are
explained by PMUs representatives and DPs‟ opinions, including voluntary donation of their
marginal impacts on trees, bamboo fences etc. of insignificant values were recorded.
The prevailing opinion of DPs in the project areas:
   -   The extension of the power supply networks are welcomed by all DPs, particularly
       people who have not yet enjoy the power supply and who are having the power supply
       but with too low service quality.
   -   DPs would like to be compensated at replacement cost for their assets losses and market
       price for their temporarily affected crops.
   -   DPs would like to be informed of actual project implementation time-schedule well in
       advance so as to prepare themselves for the ground clearance.
  Such Minutes of Community Meetings bear the signatures of the representatives of district
CRC, commune People‟s Committee, PMUs and DPs.
5.2. Socio-economic Surveys
          The survey teams have carried out the socio-economic surveys by direct interviews and
fill-in the „Questionnaires‟ covering 100% of DPs in the project areas.
        Drafts of RP Entitlement matrix have been copied and communicated by the survey
teams to the relevant bodies i.e. Ha Khau PPCs, related district CRCs, related communes
People‟s Committees (also for display at the offices of the communes People‟s Committees),
Chiefs of district and commune NGOs (Women Unions, Youth Unions, Farmers‟ Associations,
Fatherland Fronts, War Veterans etc.), Chief of related Hamlets and DPs‟ representatives.
5.3. Information Campaign and consultation program
        Information dissemination to, consultation with and participation of the affected people
involved agencies (i) reduce the potential for conflicts, (ii) minimize the risk of project de and
(iii) enable the project to design the resettlement and rehabilitation program comprehensive
development program to fit the needs and priorities of the affected people there by maximizing
the economic and social benefits of the project investment.
The objectives of the Public Information Campaign and DP Consultation Program are as
following:
   -   To share fully information about the proposed project, its components and its activities
       the affected people.


Vinaincon E&C                                                                                   -
31 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                           Resettlement
Plan

    -    To obtain information about the needs and priorities of the effected people as well as
         information about their reactions/feedback to proposed policies and activities.
    -    To obtain the cooperation and participation of the affected people and communities
         requires be undertaken for resettlement planning and implementation.
    -    To ensure transparency in all activities related to land acquisition, resettlement
         rehabilitation.
There are two phases of the public information campaign and DP consultation:


5.3.1.    Phase 1 – Information Campaign, DPs and Agency Consultation During
                Resettlement Planning and RP Preparation
         This phase – RP planning and preparation – consisted of line route selection, census and
inventory of affected people, affected assets, and identification of strategies for compensating,
rehabilitating and relocating. During census and inventory of DPs, their lost land, assets, survey
teams had conducted consultation with local authorities of all project affected communes and
districts and took focus groups discussions with DPs in the number of impacted communes to
attain their comments on the line routes alignments, potential of adverse impact, their comment
on unit cost of land, local agricultural productivity, land transfer rate... Commune local authorities
had also been consulted availability of public land that can be used for compensation option "land
for land"
       Draft RP will be sent to PPC, relevant agencies and other authorities for review and
comment. NPC and CCDC will request PPC and other local authorities to carefully review for
requirements on waivers, eligibility to compensation, proposed entitlement policy, RP taskforces,
and mechanism for complaint and applied unit costs in draft RP. PPC will review and their
comments will be sent to NPC within July 2009.
         The draft RP will also be disclosed at the office of PPC, at VDIC of the World Bank
office in Viet Nam in July 2009.
All feedback from local authorities and relevant agencies are integrated in RP.
During this phase, the following activities wre carried out sequentially:
Activity 1
Information & discussion with local authorities on the line routes.
        After studying maps and visiting the site, CCDC had envisaged a preliminary route on
1/25.000 scale map. This map was sent to all local authorities where the line passed. The local
authorities have agreed on the project line routes. These activities finished in June 2009.
Activity 2
Inventory of losses and statistics
        Based on the agreed line routes, survey teams had realized the routes at sites and
coordinated with the commune officials to make a list of DPs affected on land and assets. The
socio-economic survey forms were delivered to 20 % of affected households. These activities
finished in April and May 2009.
Activity 3
Meetings with DPs' representatives



Vinaincon E&C                                                                                     -
32 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                          Resettlement
Plan

        When the survey finished, CCDC in coordination with the commune officials held
meetings with DPs having land and other assets impacted and with village representatives. These
consultations was made and finished in January and February 2007, in all the project communes.
In these meetings, CCDC informed the participants about the project, purposes; presented the
project activities, components and possible impacts on land and crops and other properties;
explained objective of RP, policies for compensation and informed people not to build new
structures, plant trees in the affected areas. DPs were also asked for their priority for
compensation model. The result was that the most of them would prefer cash for land and for
other assets.
Activity 4
Sending draft RP and entitlement policy to PPC and districts review and disclosure.
        Draft RP will be sent by NPC to the PPC in May 2009 for review and comments. NPC
and CCDC will request PPC and other local authorities to carefully review for the required
waivers, eligibility to compensation, proposed entitlement policy, RP cost, task forced
mechanism for complaint and applied unit costs in draft RP. PPC will review and their comment
will be sent to NPC and EVN by the end of August 2009.
The draft RP will also be disclosed at the office of PPC, at VDIC of the World Bank office in
VietNam.
5.3.2. Phase 2 – Information Campaign, During Resettlement Implementation
        During this phase – RP implementation – meetings will be organized in each commune.
The implementation resettlement and rehabilitation activities include: implementing resettlement
policies entitlement calculation and payment of compensation to DPs; finalize DPs' options
compensation mode, training etc.
During this phase, the following activities wre carried out sequentially:
Activity 1
Establishment of RCs, Information dissemination and training for RC
        After the signing of the loan agreement, the first resettlement activity is to establish PSC
and PMU by NPC. Then NPC will provide local RCs at all level final RP, training their staff on
RP contents and steps of RP implementation. Disseminating RBI to all DPs. This activity will
take place in September 2009.
Activity 2
Distribution DMS and entitlement forms to DPs
         DRCs will carry out DMS and disseminate DMS's and entitlement forms to all DPs. The
list of DPs, their affected assets and entitlements will be posted at commune office. This activity
proposed to be done in November or December 2009.
       DRCs will calculate entitlements and disseminate entitlement compensation forms to all
DPs. Entitlements compensation forms will be posted at commune office. This activity is
proposed be done by about November 2009.
        Each time after distribution of RIB and compensation, entitlement forms to DPs, DRCs
and commune local authorities will organize meetings in each commune once again to clean
explain the policy of RP to DPs. In these meetings, DPs can raise their questions on resettlement
issues.
Activity 3


Vinaincon E&C                                                                                    -
33 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                        Resettlement
Plan

Meeting with DPs on compensation payment.
       After getting data on lost assets by the project, RCs and communes will organize
meetings with DPs to introduce the compensation rates for different impacted assets. Table of
compensation rates will be posted in the offices of commune people's committees.
      At the meeting, DPs can comment on the proposed compensation rates. Disagreement
compensation rates will be noted down and collected for consideration.
        DPs who agree with compensation price for their assets will sign on the compensation
table Disagreement comments will be recorded and reported to the competent authorities.
      At a later meeting, DPs will be informed of times, locations and procedures of
compensation payment for the lost assets. The meetings are scheduled by the end of October
2009
Activity 4:
Information to local authorities on implementation schedule
       NPC will inform commune authorities and DPs about construction schedule and
procedure as well as schedule of RP implementation.
       Commune local authorities and district RCs must closely coordinate together for ensuring
the DPs are fully informed about compensation and project/ RP implementation schedules
5.3.3 Resettlement Information Booklet
       To ensure that DPs, their representatives and local governments of the affected areas fully
understand on the details of RP, RIB will be prepared by PMB and will be distributed to all DPs,
EM in the project area in the initial duration of the implementation stage.
The RIB will contain information on the followings:
Basic Features
        Project description
        Project design objectives
        Implementation schedule
        Project impacts
        Eligibility to compensation and rehabilitation and entitlements policy for the project
         affected people
        Institutions are responsible for resettlement
        Information dissemination to and consultation with the affected people
        Grievances and appeals
        Monitoring and Evaluation of RP implementation.
Specific Entitlements of DP
        Description of the detailed impact of the project on the specific households
        Compensation rates for each types of impact
        Date of delivery of entitlements




Vinaincon E&C                                                                                  -
34 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                        Resettlement
Plan


                                  6. PROJECT IMPACTS
6.1. Types of Impact
Row is defined on the Electricity standard Vietnam (TCVN) on security protection for high
voltage power network:
     All house and public structures in ROW are required to remove or could be existed with
      the restricted conditions.
     All high trees in tower foundation areas and in ROW of D/L that from the tops of trees to
      the lowest conductor less than 3 m will be cut. All trees out of ROW but it is supposed to
      touch to the conductors in the case of fallen trees (should be at lest under 1m from the top
      of fallen trees to the conductors) will be cut.
     All structures out of ROW but it is supposed to impact to the project such as bomb and
      mine storage, gas station, stone mine, communication centers etc will be removed.
     Permanently land acquisition for the project consists of:
        -    Land acquired for tower foundations
        -    Land acquired for permanent access roads
        -    Land acquired for substation
     Temporary impacted land for the project consists of:
        -    Land area surrounding the foundation during the period of foundation digging
             and tower erection.
        -    Land area for the service roads for transportation of material into the tower
             position. The impacted land area will be proposed temporary from 1 to 2
             months.
        -    Temporary impacted land area in conductor tension consists of a line along the
             route, 7 m wide (the line is only calculated for category of annual cultivation
             land). The land area would be impacted from 1 to mouths.
     Impacted bridges and roads and road are built by local during materials transportation.
      Inventory survey work for impacts is carried out in April 2009 results are as the below
      table.
6.2. Project Impacted People
The following persons to be identified by the baseline information collected for this RP are
Displaced Persons:
       (a) Persons whose houses are in part or in total affected (temporarily or permanently)
           by the project;
       (b) Persons whose residential and premise and/or agricultural and is in part or in total
           affected (permanently or temporarily) by the project;
       (c) Persons whose businesses are affected in part or in total (temporarily or
           permanently) by the project;
       (d) Persons whose crops (annual and perennial) and trees are affected in part or in
           total by the project;



Vinaincon E&C                                                                                  -
35 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                          Resettlement
Plan

         (e) Persons whose rented houses for residential purpose are affected by the project.
Result from the Socio-economic surveys shows that.


Table 6.1 – Total Number of DPs

                                                                      HHs            Persons

 Total number of DPs                                                  06             22

          Number of households affected over 10% of productive Nil
           land

          Number of households affected is less than 10% of 01                      02
           productive land (forestry)

          Number of households affected residential land part - 03                  12
           does not affect the housing

          Number of households affected residential land part - 01                  03
           affect the housing and rest of qualified rebuild

          Number of households affected residential land part - to 01               05
           the entire affected area and rest of unqualified rebuild

           DPs with business partly or totally affected              Nil




Table 6.2 – Describe the specific impact and compensate for the DPS



             Type of impact                      Residential Product          Compensation measures
                                      Name of
No                                                   land    ive land
         (reference section 3.1.2)   household             4                  (reference section 3.2.2)
                                                  affected   affected

                                                                            + Compensation in cash for
                                     Hoàng
         The impact is less than                                            the land produce
 1                                   Văn             0%        1.6%
         10% of productive land                                             + Compensation in cash for
                                     Lương
                                                                            plants / crops.

                                     ?ặng Thị
 2                                                 27.4%        0%
                                     Bảnh                                   + Compensation in cash for
         Part Impact residential
                                                                            residential land
         land - does not affect      Lê Thị
 3                                                 13.8%        0%          + Compensation in cash for
         housing                     My
                                                                            plants / crops.
 4                                   ?ồng           3.0%        0%


Vinaincon E&C                                                                                    -
36 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                      Resettlement
Plan

                                  Xuân
                                  Giáp

         Part Impact residential
                                                                       + Compensation in cash for
         land - affecting the
                                   Trần Văn                            residential land
 5       entire house but the land                62.4%        0%
                                   Hoàn5                               + Compensation in cash for
         remains qualify for
                                                                       houses
         rebuild

         Part impact residential
                                                                       + Cash compensation for
         land - affecting the      Hoàng
                                                                       residential land
 6       entire house but the land Trung          51.1%        0%
                                                                       + Support for removal
         remains unqualify for     Kiên6
                                                                       + Support for job training
         rebuild


        4
           For details see Annex 5: Land recovered for project implementation (permanent
         effect)
        5
           Household Tran Van Hoan remaining land area 218 m2, enough area to build new
         housing.
        6
           Household of Mr Hoàng Trung Kiên remaining land area of 1410m2, but the rest
         are located in the land clearance of railway projects Pha Lai - Ha Long and land
         traffic security corridor of railway, should not build a house on remaining land area
         (see related compensation plan). Consultation result minutes of community meetings
         show that Mr. Hoang Trung agreed to receive money, and move by themselves to new
         housing according to approved plan of administration of HaLong city( reference
         appendixex 2).




Vinaincon E&C                                                                                -
37 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                      Resettlement
Plan

                           7. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENT
7.1. Implementation Arrangement
7.1.1 Announcement to DPs
All DPs shall be thoroughly informed about the rights and policies of RP including eligibility,
entitlement policy, modes and rates of compensation, schedules and complaint and grievances
rights. The RIB will be prepared by PMUs and then it will be delivered to all DPs or informed at
the meetings in districts and communes; hung in public places such as administration quarters of
communes and school.
Public announcement tasks shall be implemented immediately after GOV and WB approval of
project is obtained. The features of RIB is describled in Art 5.6.
7.1.2 Compensation Deadline
Compensation payment for agricultural land, trees and crops and all allowances will be paid
at least 01 month before land acquisition date.
Compensation payment for residential land, houses and other structures will be paid at least
03 months before the date of land acquisition by the project.
Affected public infrastructure will be restored by contractor to prio-project condition before
commencement of civil work.
7.1.3 Resettlement and Clearance Deadline
DPs who have impact houses and land and have received full compensation and subsidies,
are requested to move out of the affected portion of the house or to clear land at least 15 days
before the commencement to be relocated.
7.2. RP Implementation Process
RP implementation will be included in 3 kinds of actions as bellows:
      General action: Just at once when beginning the project implementation work.
      Separate action: at several times, once for each component of the project.
      Continuous action: Continuous action for the stages of RP implementation.
7.3. Essential Action
7.3.1 Action 1
Just after the award of capital borrows convention of WB, the project will establish
management units - PMU at NPC, under EVN. The PMU will have a resettlement division to
carry daily resettlement responsibilities for their respective project
7.3.2 Action 2
CRC carries out the DMS and inventory of the affected assets (on the basis of the surveys for
this RP) and together with the independent monitoring agency and other related agencies,
carry out the evaluation for the applicable unit costs in RP and propose to PPC for
amendment of the applicable unit prices in RP, if necessary, to ensure that DP is compensated
at replacement cost at the time of RP implementation.
Article 9 of Decree 197/2004/ND-CP states that land price for the compensation calculation
is the land price in respect of land use purpose at the time of land acquisition, promulgated by
the provincial People‟s Committee in line with the Government regulation (within the GOV‟s
range of minimum and maximum).

Vinaincon E&C                                                                                -
38 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                 Resettlement
Plan

Chapter 2 of Decree 188/2004/BD-CP promulgates the methodologies (i.e.‟ direct
comparison method‟ and „ income method‟) to define land price and, at the same time, set
forth the land price framework (min. and max. unit price for various types of land)
throughout the country
7.3.3 Action 3
Immediately after the completion of the DMS and inventory survey, CRC will inspect and
define the official number of DPs, impacted properties and total compensation amount for
DPs.
7.3.4 Action 4
CRC will officially announce the policy, schedule of the RP to DPs at public meetings
including issues related to compensation, resettlement and landclearance.
7.3.5 Action 5
Compensation payment for houses/structures and deliver assistance to DPs affected on
houses/structures, and compensation payment for DPs affected on other properties.
DPs that permanently impacted more than 10% of total productive land or incomes will be
entitled to rehabilitation assistance. They will be assisted for the training or TA for
agriculture/husbandry or non-land based program. The amount or 700,000
(VND)/person/main labor and is directly to training or TA institutions/ consultants and
800,000VND for trainee as a subsidy allowance in the training time (total is 1,500,000VND
per trainee).
The proposals for trainings or TA programs will be prepared by PMU - NPC in the period of
RP implementation. The proposals will be developed based on the consultation with local
authorities and the participation of DPs. The proposal also includes the possibility of
employment after training. The proposal will be furnished to IDA for its concurrence.
(However, there are no DPs with more than 10% of their total productive land or incomes
permanently affected in this project).
7.3.6 Action 6: Payment of compensation and delivery of assistance measures
During the project implementation, PMUs and Independent External Monitoring Agency will
supervise/monitor all activities of RP implementation and rehabilitation programs.
7.4. Implementation Schedule
One of the RP provisions is that, RP will be carried out in accordance with the mention
process for the purpose of security for land clearance and implementation of civil work.
Project implementation schedule:

                                                                        Time

  Schedule for PMU and project CRCs

  1. Establishment of Project CRC                                       (Already exist)

  2. Review and approval/clear for RP by PPC/WB                         July 2012

  3. Commencement of public information                                 August 2012



Vinaincon E&C                                                                           -
39 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                       Resettlement
Plan

    4. Commencement of Field works (DMS)                                     September 2012

    5. Commencement of payment of compensation                               September 2012

    Schedule for DPs

    1. Commencement for declaration of quantity and status of properties     August 2012

    2. Commencement for receiving compensation and ground clearance          September 2012

    Civil works                                                              October 2012

    Monitoring                                                               October 2012

All RP activities must be satisfactorily completed before the WB issues a no objection for
award of contract for the sub-projects. Any changes to the RP after WB clearance will require
review by the WB office in Hanoi before commencement of construction.
7.5. Staffing for RP Implementation
7.5.1 Proposed Staffing
Staffing for the RP implementation is proposed in the following table
     -   NPC PMU: Number of staffs for the RP implementation is 2 people (1person for 1
         project province)
     -   Consultants: Number of staffs for the RP implementation is 10 people (average 5
         people/project Province)
     -   Independent External Monitoring: Number of staffs for the RP implementation is 6
         people (average 3 people/ project province)
Table 7.5.1 – Staffing for RP implementation

Sr       Institutions                              Number of staff         Total      working
No                                                                         time

1        NPC PMU                                   2                       2 months

2        Consultants                               10                      3 months

3        Independent External Monitoring           6                       6 months

The independent external monitoring agency shall dedicate their apt workforce to satisfy the
external monitoring requirement of the WB with defined schedule. They shall commence
their monitoring work right from the beginning of the RP implementation through its
completion. The external monitoring is required to carry out the monitoring 6 months after
the completion of the RP implementation for the surveying of the satisfaction level of DPs
7.5.2 Training and workshop
In order to carry out RP implementation smoothly and effectively, prior to RP
implementation, organizing trainings, workshop for social safeguard staff of EVN, NPC, and
its Consultants and officials of local authorities are necessary. The trainings, workshops will
be held by PMU with TA of the WB resettlement Officers. The objectives of training,

Vinaincon E&C                                                                                 -
40 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                     Resettlement
Plan

requirement for carrying out DMS survey and steps of RP implementation as well as
monitoring and evaluation, report preparation, base line data management.
One intermediate training course and one primary training course are proposed to be
organized at the initial stage of the RP implementation.
One workshop for all RP implementation related personnel is proposed to be held by the
initial stage of actual payment of compensation.
The training courses and workshops are to be organized in all project provinces within a short
course of time (1day)
Table 7.5.2 – Number of Proposed trainees

Sr    Resettlement organization        Number Content
No                                     of staff

1     Intermediate training

1.1   NPC PMU                          10          DMS and Entitlement Determination

1.2   Consultants                      20          Internal Monitoring and evaluation of RP
                                                   implementation

2     Primary training

2.1   Consultants co-ordinate with 20              DMS, inventory, survey.
      Officers of communes

2.2   Internal monitoring staff        8           Key RP policies

                                                   Monitoring and       evaluation   of     RP
                                                   implementation
                                                   Community participation and consultation
                                                   Complaints and grievances

7.6. Complaints and Grievances
To ensure that the DPs have avenues for redressing their grievances related to any aspect
compensation and resettlement, detailed procedures of redresses of grievances have
established for the project. The objective is to respond to the complaints of the DPs speedily
and clean in a transparent manner. By resolving grievances at the project level, the progress
of the project would be more effectively ascertained.
The procedures are as follows:
       First step:
       If any person is aggrieved by any aspect of the resettlement and rehabilitation
program, he/she can lodge an oral or written grievance with commune authorities. Commune
People‟s Committee will resolve the issue within fifteen days from the date it receive the
complaint.
       Second step:



Vinaincon E&C                                                                               -
41 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                       Resettlement
Plan

        If any aggrieved person is not satisfied with the decision in stage 1, he/she can bring
the complaint to the District People‟s Committee (DPC) or District Resettlement Committee
(DRC) within fifteen days from the date of the receipt of the decision in stage 1. The District
People‟s Committee (DRC) or District Resettlement Committee (DRC) will reach a decision
on the complaint within fifteen days.
        Third step:
       If the DP is still not satisfied with the decision at district level, he/she can appeal to
the Provincial People‟s Committee (PCC) or Provincial Resettlement Committee (PRC)
within 15 days of receiving the decision of the DPC or DRC. The Provincial People‟s
Committee (PRC) or Provincial Resettlement Committee (CRC) will reach a decision on the
complaint within fifteen days.
       Fourth step:


       If the DP is not satisfied with the decision of the Provincial level, the case may be
       submitted for consideration by the District Court within 15 days of receiving the
       decision of the PPC or PRC.


NPC7.7. Monitoring and supervision
The implementation of RP shall be constantly supervised and monitored by PMU – NPC in
ordination with EVN
The independent consulting agencies (IMA) will be entrusted with external monitoring. The
selection of such agencies will be submitted to the approval of NPC and WB.
The selected external monitoring institution shall be contracted by the PMU immediately
after RP approval and shall begin supervision and monitoring activities form the beginning of
the implementation phase. This institution(s) is also responsible for monitoring EMDP
implementation.
7.7.1 Internal Monitoring
      Project Management Boardis responsible forimplementinginternal monitoringofthe
ResettlementPlan implementation. Internal monitoring and supervision will:
   -    Verify that the baseline information of all DP‟s has been carried out and that the
        valuation of assets lost or damaged, and the provision of compensation, resettlement
        and other rehabilitation entitlements has been carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of this Policy Framework and the respective .
   -    Oversee that the RPs are implemented as designed and approved.
   -    Verify that funds for implementing the RPs are provided to the respective PMUs in a
        timely manner and in amounts sufficient for their purposes, and that such funds are used
        by the respective PMU‟s in accordance with the provisions of.
   -    Record all grievances and their resolution and ensure that complaints are dealt with in a
        timely manner.
     Staff who is responsible forresettlement, compensationand clearance of implementing
agency will update informationbased on severalmainactivities as follow:
Table 7.7.1 - Somemain activitiesformonitoring andinternal evaluation



Vinaincon E&C                                                                                 -
42 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch             Resettlement
Plan

                                                    Implementation
  N0      The activitiesofthe resettlementplan                          Description
                                                    Yes        No

  1.     Informing for people and local
         authorities about the project

  2.     Inventoryingdamage totally

  3.     Investigatingreplacement cost

  4.     Prepairing resettlement plan

  5.     Approvingresettlementplan

         - EVN/NPC

         - Provincial People's Committee

         - The World Bank

  6.     DisclosuringResettlementPlan

         -Projectarea:

         - The Northern Power Company

         - VDIC/Infoshop

  7.     Counting andmeasuringthe field

         Applyingcompensation price (from the
  8.
         resettlementplan)

  9.     Prepairingspecifical compensationplan

  10.    Approvingthe compensation measures

  11.    Disclosuring the compensation measures

  12.    Adjustingand approving(if any)

         Payingcompensation money
         (includingupdatesof the resettlementplan
  13.    -for example:the number of affected
         people, the expense, the affected level,
         ect)

  14.    Internal monitoring

  15.    Independent monitoring


Vinaincon E&C                                                                       -
43 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                        Resettlement
Plan

  16.        Report of implementationplan

  17.        Collecting andsolving complaint

  18.        Consultation andparticipationof people

             -Community meeting

             - Leaflet provision

             Coordinating withother
  19.        agencies(especiallyCompensationCouncil
             )

             Mid-term andend- term review(with
  20.
             project)

7.7.2 External Monitoring
Beside evaluation the quarterly reports produced by internal monitors and conduct the s thing
of investigation assigned to internal monitoring, the external (independent) monitoring
agency will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating following indicators:
     (i)       At the beginning of RP implementation, review unit costs of compensation
               applied in RP, check at the site for ensuring that, the compensation costs are
               at replacement value or otherwise, recommend to NPC, its PMU for
               adjusting.
     (ii)      Evaluation of inventory survey (DMS) and Entitlements to DPs.
     (iii)     Evaluation of socio-economic project impact on the RAP.
     (iv)      Supervision of Coordination of resettlement activities with construction
               schedule: the completion of land acquisition and resettlement activities for
               any component should be completed prior to award of the civil works
               contract for that component.
     (v)       Putting forward the amendments for the implementation of RP so as to
               achieve the objectives of this RP.
     (vi)      Offering suggestions on how improve RP and EMDP programs
     (vii)     Closely monitoring compensation activities and be prepared to give
               informed evaluation of Complaint and grievances cases.
     (viii)    After completing compensation payment, a completion report must be prepared.
               This document shall provide detail evaluation of the RP and its implementation,
               documenting both by the interviews with the RP the situation and the opinions
               of them after they have resettled an/or compensated.
     (ix)      Finally, on the base of the RP implementation experience this document shall
               provide suggestions both to help reinforce local RP expertise and to impove
               future resettlement plans.




Vinaincon E&C                                                                                   -
44 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch             Resettlement
Plan

Terms of Reference (TOR) for independent monitoring will be prepare by PMU under NPC,
TOR will clearly figure out the tasks for RP and EMDP and be sent to WB for its
concurrence prior invitation of independent monitoring.




Vinaincon E&C                                                                       -
45 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                      Resettlement
Plan

                                  8. COSTS AND BUDGET
8.1. Budget
Budget for RP implementation will be the counterpart funds from EVN
8.2. Compensation Cost Estimate
Compensation cost estimate for temporarily and permanently impacted house, structures,
productive land, trees and crops is based on:
        Decree No.197/2004/ND-CP dt.03.Dec.2004
        Decision for unit costs of compensation of Ha Khau Ward People‟s Committees.
        Survey for replacement costs and market price for structures, land, trees, crops by
         CCDC in the period of carrying out impact survey.
8.3. Compensation Unit Prices
Decisions for unit cost of compensation of Ha Khau WardPeople‟s Committees are
applicable for these subprojects.
8.3.1 Compensation unit prices for Houses and Structures
The compensation unit prices for structures are not applicable since there is not any house or
other structures totally or partly impacted in this project. Therefore, such rates are not
applicable in this project.
8.3.2 Compensation unit prices for land
Compensation for land shall be at replacement cost.
Land unit price is established separately conforming to the regulated price frame of the
Decree No.188/2004/ND-CP and Circular No.114/2004/TT-BTC.
Chapter II of Decree No.188/2004 ND-CP- “Methods of Defining Land Price?, which is
elaborated in Chapter I of Circular No.114/2004/TT-BTC (i.e.Art.1: “the direct comparison
method‟ and Art.2: „the income method‟) ensure the unit cost to meet the replacement value
at the time of issuance of unit cost. These unit prices are based on the replacement costs for
land, house, trees and market prices for crops.
The newly promulgated unit prices for land reflect the prevailing land prices in the project
areas.
Table 8.3.2 – Compensation Unit Prices for Land
Ha Khau Ward, Ha LongCity, Quang Ninh Provincy
                                                                   Unit: VND/m2 (đ/m2)



    STT                 Category of Land                         Unit Price

     1                   Residential Land                        2,500,000




Vinaincon E&C                                                                                -
46 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                    Resettlement
Plan

8.3.3 Compensation Unit Prices for Trees and Crops
Table 9.3.3 (a) – Compensation Unit Prices for Long Term Tree
Unit: VND/Tree (đ/cây)

No    Category of Tree                                                     Unit price

1     Longan (2cm < diameter of tree-trunk ≤10cm)                          100.000

2     Longan (5cm < diameter of tree-trunk ≤10cm)                          200.000

3     Longan (35cm < diameter of tree-trunk ≤40cm)                         1.400.000

4     Longan (diameter of tree-trunk > 40cm)                               1.600.000

5     Litchi (5cm < diameter of tree-trunk ≤10cm)                          200.000

6     Coconut                                                              200.000

7     Breadfruit (5cm < diameter of tree-trunk ≤10cm)                      100.000

8     Breadfruit (diameter of tree-trunk >30cm)                            1.200.000

9     Bead-tree (20≤ diameter of tree-trunk ≥30)                           40.000

10    Mango (diameter of tree-trunk >30cm)                                 1.200.000

11    Banana (having bananas)                                              18.000

12    Bamboo (can cut for using)                                           3.000

13    Bamboo (can not cut for using)                                       10.000

7     Glue, greasy, eucalyptus (tree(15< diameter of tree-trunk ≤40cm)     8.000

8     Glue, greasy, eucalyptus (tree(8< diameter of tree-trunk ≤15cm)      6.000

Table 8.3.3 – Houses and structures
Unit: VND/m2

                     Sr.No Kind of Houses and structures                 Price

                     1      Huose 1 floor

                     2      House of 4th level                           750.000

                     3      Buffalo coop

8.3.4 Flow of Fund
Fund of the implementation of RP will be from the GOV contribution: EVN


Vinaincon E&C                                                                              -
47 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                      Resettlement
Plan

8.3.5 Inflation Adjustment
The rates of compensation and cash entitlements for rehabilitation and allowances payable to
the DPs shall be reviewed and, if necessary, be adjusted at the actual time of RP
implementation based on the actual annual inflation rate upon request of the CRCs
8.4. Cost Estimation
Expenditures for RP comprising of:
Preparation
      All office works such as design study, preparation of statistic survey form
      Survey work: census and inventory, socio-economic survey.
Survey works are carried out in two stages: Preliminary stage (for RP preparation) and
Implementation stage (DMS – at the early time of project and RP implementation)
Compensation and Rehabilitation
Based on the impacted categories and extend of impacts with described in the above part,
compensation and rehabilitation costs are includes:
   -   Compensation for permanently land acquisition
   -   Compensation for temporary and permanently trees and crops (includeing the cost of
       cutting the trees)
   -   Compensation for houses and structures required to be removed from the proposed
       ROWs (including demolishment cost and repair cost)
   -   Subsidy, allowance for rehabilitation, consists of: relocating subsidy, transport
       allowance, training subsidy...
   -   Incentive for timely movement.
Management
      Cost for staff of PMU includes in: physical basic salary and allowance for
       administrative organization. The local PMU shall undertake many works during the
       project implementation and only some members will be contracted to work for a
       certain period of time.
      Cost for trainings, workshops, information campaign...
Monitoring
When carrying out the project, PMU of NPC will enter a contract with an independent
external monitoring agency to carry out the external monitoring. Since cost of monitoring
work has not yet envisaged in detail, it is estimated at about 2% of total cost of compensation
and RP preparation. The interested independent external monitoring agency will prepare the
technical and financial proposals for bidding and actual cost will be decided through
procurement for independent monitoring.
Contingency
From the implemented and on-going implementing projects of similar nature, the rate for
contingency is estimated about 20% of total cost of compensation and RP preparation.




Vinaincon E&C                                                                                -
48 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                     Resettlement
Plan

8.5. Total cost Estimated for RP implementation
8.5.1 Preparation of RP and DMS
Initial stage – Preparation of RP
At the initial satge of the oreparation for the establishment of the RP, a socio-economic
survey workforce has to be established. This workforce will carry out (a) studying the designs
and field visits, (b) establishing the socio-economic survey forms (interview) and inventory
forms (with preliminary measurements of fixed assets and counting of properties), (c)
organizing community meetings and public consultation and distribution of project related
pamphlets/Q&A..., (d) socio-economic surveys by means of fill in the „Questionnaires‟ and
dicect interview, (e) data processing and (f) establishment of the RP for approval.
It is a common practice in Vietnam that PC‟PMU sign a contract with certain Consultant to
carry out all works of this stage
Implementation stage – DMS
Preparing for the RP implementation, the district CRC‟s Support Working Teams are
mobilized to carru out (a) the preparation of DMS and inventoryforms, RIB; (b) organizing
community meetings; (c) DMS and inventory work; (d) negotiations with DPs and (e)
finalizing the DP‟s compensation and rehabilitation forms and submit to district CRCs for
approval.
Support working teams:
3 teams (6 persons/team) will work about 2 months
Total Implementation stage

 (the estimates also include expenses on basic 20,841.209
 salary, per diem, accommodation, traveling of
 staff, printing of forms, Q&A/pamphlets,
 community meetings)

Total RP preparation

 - Inital stage (preparation of RP)            13,028,644

 - Implementation stage (DMS)                  7,812,545

 Total                                         20,841,209

8.5.2 Compensation and Rehabilitation
The tables in Annex 9 are recommended to be established for each commune.
8.5.3 Management
       Cost for staff of PMUs includes in: physical basis, salary and allowance for
administrative organization. The local PMU shall undertake many works during the project
implementation and only some members will be contracted to work for a certain period of
time

Total cost of Management (including basic salary,
                                                  345.186.338 VND
allowances, traveling and meetings)


Vinaincon E&C                                                                               -
49 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                     Resettlement
Plan

8.5.4 Trainings, workshop, information campaign
One intermediate training course and one primary training course are proposed to be
organized right at the beginning of the RP implementation and one workshop is proposed to
be held at the commencement of the actual payment of compensation. Considering the
convenient for the local management of the project related provinces, the training courses and
workshop are proposed to be organized within a short course of time i.e.1-2 days in Quang
Ninh provinces.
Cost of trainings, workshop, information campaign include: TAs, documentations, admin...
and it was estimated                                           : 720,000 VND
8.5.5 Monitoring
The independent external monitoring of RP implementation is estimated at about 2% of total
cost of compensation and RP preparation. The interested independent external monitoring
agency will prepare the technical and financial proposals for bidding and actual cost will be
decided through procurement for external monitoring agency.
8.5.6 Contingency
The rate for contingency is estimated about 20% of total cost of compensation and RP
preparation and implementation
8.5.7 Total cost of RP Implementation
The following tables are recommended to be established
Table 8.5.7 – Total cost of RP implementation

                       Components                 Amount of Budget allocation

            1. Preparation of RP and DMS

            Initial stage (Preparation of RP)                         13.028.644

            Implementation stage (DMS)                                 7.812.545

            Sub – total 1                                             20.841.209

            2. Compensation and Rehabilitation

            Permanent land acquisition                             6.243.325.000

            Civil construction                                        90.990.000

            Impacted trees                                            84.370.560

            Temporary land acquisition                               437.500.000

            Other compensation                                        12.300.000

            Sub – total 2                                          6.868.485.560

            3. Management



Vinaincon E&C                                                                               -
50 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch           Resettlement
Plan

          Management                                        344.466.338

          Trainings, workshop, information
          campaign...                                           720.000

          Sub – total 3                                     345.466.338

          4. External monitoring = 2% of
          (1+2)                                             137.786.535

          Sub – total 3                                     137.786.535

          5. Contingency = 20% of (1+2)                    1.377.865.354

          Sub – total 4                                    1.377.865.354

          Grand total (1+2+3+4+5)                          8.750.164.997




Vinaincon E&C                                                                     -
51 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                     Resettlement
Plan

                                     9. DISCLOSURE
Resettlement Policy Framework and Entitlement Matrix of the Rural Distribution Project
have been disclosed at the People‟s Committees of Ha Khau Ward, HalongCity.All feedback
from local authorities and DPs are integrated in this RP. Draft of RP will be disclosed at the
office of Provincial People‟s committee and at Vietnam Development and Information Center
(VDIC) of the World Bank office in Hanoi.
The final RP will be cleared by the WB and EVN




Vinaincon E&C                                                                               -
52 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch              Resettlement
Plan




             1. Map of Project Areas
   X




             2. Minutes of community meetings
             3. Housing catalogies (Vietnam Construction standards)
   E




             4. Socio-economic household data sheet of affected project people
             5. Permanent land acquisition
   X




             6. Loss of trees and crops
             7. Total of compensation
   I
   D
   N
   E
   P
   P
   A




Vinaincon E&C                                                                        -
53 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




APPENDIX 1
MAP OF PROJECT AREAS




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
54 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
55 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
56 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




APPENDIX 2
MINUTES OF COMMUNITY MEETINGS




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
57 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
58 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
59 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
60 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
61 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
62 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
63 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




APPENDIX 3
HOUSING CATEGORIES (VIETNAMESE CONSTRUCTION STANDARD)




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
64 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch                     Resettlement
Plan

         Appendix 3 - Housing categories (Vietnamese Construction Standards)


                                             Quality of constructions

Categories                       Level of                                                Electric-
              Time for
                                   fire         Conveniences       Perfected lever        water
              using
                                preventive                                               supplied

     1          More than          I or II    Bedroom, sitting    High perfection,    Comfortable
                100 years                     room, dining        having decorated
                                              room,kitchen,       materials
                                              complete
                                              bathroom.

     2           50 – 100            III      Bedroom, sitting    Fairly perfection, Comfortable
                  years                       room, dining        having decorated
                                              room,kitchen,       materials
                                              complete private
                                              bathroom.

     3         20 - 50 years        IV         Bedroom,          average             average
                                                sitting room,
                                                dining
                                                room,kitchen
                                               Common
                                                Bathroom

     4         Less than 20          V         1-2 rooms is      Below average       Only electric
                  years                         public.                               lights, water
                                                Common                                supply for
                                                kitchen and                           kitchen and
                                                bathroom.                             common
                                                                                      bathroom.
                                                                                      Using poor
                                                                                      materials.


Temporary
There is no main standard for temporary house/structures. But, we can understand that these
house/structures will be constructed by material with low value as woods, bamboo… which
means: cottage or poor quality brick, mortar, scrap iron.


Source: Vietnamese Construction Standards – Chapter 8 “Regulations for construction project
and civil work?




Vinaincon E&C                                                                                 -
65 -
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch   Resettlement
Plan




APPENDIX 4
ECONOMIC HOUSEHOLD DATA SHEET OF PROJECT AFFECTED PEOPLE




Vinaincon E&C                                                             -
66 -
RD 110kV Cai Dam New urban area substation and 110kV branch



                                          Appendix 4: economic household data sheet of project affected people




                                                                                                                   Occupation
                           malee of HHs                                Ethnic                                                     Estimated total
    Address of HHs                             Sex          Age                     Education     Employment       ad souce of
                             member                                    group                                                     income per year
                                                                                                                     income



Hà Khẩu ward



Group 58, Block 6, Ha
Khau ward, Ha Long City,   Hoàng Văn
                                               male         64          Kinh           3/10       Retirement age                        28,000,000
Quang Ninh Province Tel:   Lương
+84333649368
        RD Project – Vietnam
        110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch          Resettlement Plan



                           Nguyễn Thị
                                           female        65        Kinh          3/10         Retirement age    9,000,000
                           L?n

Group 58, Block 6, Ha
Khau ward, Ha Long City,
                           Hoàng Trung
Quang Ninh Province Tel:                    male         34        Kinh         12/12         Security Guard   24,000,000
                           Kiên
+84333649379,
+84915585237

                           Nguyễn Thị                                                         Homemaker
                                           female        32        Kinh          9/12                          14,000,000
                           Xuân                                                               and Breeding



                           Hoàng Mai                                           primary
                                           female         7        Kinh
                           Hương                                              education



                           Hoàng Kiên
                                            male          2        Kinh
                           Trung


                           Nguyễn Thị
                                           female        54        Kinh                       Retirement age
                           Tình




        Vinaincon E&C                                                                   -1-
        RD Project – Vietnam
        110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch          Resettlement Plan




Group 58, Block 6, Ha
Khau ward, Ha Long City,   Trần Văn
                                             ale         34        Kinh          5/10          Homemaker       24,000,000
Quang Ninh Province Tel:   Hoàn
+84974691432



                           Nguyễn Thị                                                         Homemaker
                                           female        33        Kinh          5/10                          15,000,000
                           Nga                                                                and Breeding


                           Trần Mạnh
                                            male          4        Kinh
                           Hùng




Group 58, Block 6, Ha
Khau ward, Ha Long City,   Nguyễn Thị
                                           female        58        Kinh         10/10         Retirement age   21,600,000
Quang Ninh Province Tel:   Thuận
+84333843231




                           ?ồng Xuân
                                            male         58        Kinh          7/10         Retirement age
                           Giáp




        Vinaincon E&C                                                                   -2-
        RD Project – Vietnam
        110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch          Resettlement Plan



                           ?ồng Văn
                                            male         28        Kinh         12/12            Business       36,000,000
                           Chung



                           ?ỗ Thị Khánh    female        27        Kinh         12/12            Business       18,000,000




Group 58, Block 6, Ha
                           ?ặng Thị
Khau ward, Ha Long City,                   female        62        Kinh          7/10         /Retirement age
                           Bảnh
Quang Ninh Province Tel:




                           Nguyễn Th?
                                            male         66        Kinh          7/10         Retirement age
                           Ngân


                           Nguyễn Thị                                                          Homemaker
                                           female        31        Kinh          6/12                           20,000,000
                           Hậu                                                                 and Breeding




        Vinaincon E&C                                                                   -3-
        RD Project – Vietnam
        110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch          Resettlement Plan




                           Nguyễn Th?
                                           female        23        Kinh          4/12         Homemaker    24,000,000
                           Thành




Group 58, Block 6, Ha
Khau ward, Ha Long City,   Lê Thị My       female        49        Kinh                        Homemaker   40,000,000
Quang Ninh Province Tel:




                           Vũ Văn Thanh     male         49        Kinh          7/10          Homemaker   40,000,000




                           Vũ Thị Diệu     female        21        Kinh       Trung cấp        Homemaker   24,000,000




        Vinaincon E&C                                                                   -4-
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch          Resettlement Plan




                 Vũ Nam
                                    male         23        Kinh        ?ại h?c        student
                 TRung




Vinaincon E&C                                                                  -5-
APPENDIX 5
PERMANENT ACQUISITATION LAND
RD 110kV Cai Dam New urban area substation and 110kV branch



                            APPENDIX 5: PERMANENT ACQUISITATION LAND




                                                            LAND KIND (m2)
Survey    NAME OF HEAD       No. of persons
                                                                                            TOTAL(m2)
 No        HOUSEHOLD             in HH                            Forest
                                              Residential land                 Others
                                                                   land

         Ha khau WARD             22
                                                 3,073.77           -            -                 3,074

  1      Hoàng Văn Lương
                                   2                     336.29            -            -           336

  2      Hoàng Trung Kiên
                                   5                   1,467.61            -            -          1,468

  3      ?ặng Thị Bảnh
                                   4                     694.93            -            -           695

  4      Trần Văn Hoàn
                                   3                     362.25            -            -           362

  5      Lê Thị My
                                   4                     168.31            -            -           168
RD Project – Vietnam
110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch           Resettlement Plan



  6     ?ồng Xuân Giáp
                                   4                       44.38        -              -   44




Vinaincon E&C                                                                   -1-
APPENDIX 6
LOSS OF TREES AND CROPS
RD 110kV Cai Dam New urban area substation and 110kV
branch



                                                        APPENDIX 6: LOSS OF TREES AND CROPS




        NAME
Surv                                                                                                                         BA                              TOTA
       OF HEAD                                                                                                      VET               EUCA
 ey              THIEU                 PERSIM                             COCO                       BEAD                   MB                FORE OTH         L
       HOUSEH               LONGA                   JACKFRU MANG                      ARECA BANAN                   GAR               LIPTU
 No              LITCH                  MON                                NUT                       TREE                    OO                 ST  ERS       (m2)
         OLD                 N(tree)                 IT (tree) O (tree)                NUT  A (tree)                DEN                   S
                 I (tree)               (tree)                            (tree)                     (tree)                 (tree              (m2) (m2)
                                                                                                                    (m2)               (tree)
                                                                                                                              )

       TOTAL                     94         5            51          5        -           -       25                                      7
                   114                                                                                     15       3,074    87                -       -     3,477

       HA
 I     KHAU                       94            5          51        5            -           -   25                                      7
                     114                                                                                    15      3,074     87                   -       - 3,477
       WARD

       Hoàng
 1     Văn
       Lương          33           8            -             3      4            -           -        -        -    336          -       7        -       - 391

 2     Hoàng
       Trung          29          41            5          48        1            -           -        -    15      1,468         -       -        -       - 1,607
    RD Project – Vietnam
    110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch       Resettlement Plan


     Kiên

     ?ặng Thị
3
     Bảnh              -         -         -           -       -    -          -          -   -   695    -   -   -   - 695

     Trần Văn
4
     Hoàn            52        45          -           -       -    -          -         25   -   362   42   -   -   - 526

5    Lê Thị My
                       -         -         -           -       -    -          -          -   -   168   45   -   -   - 213

     ?ồng
6
     Xuân Giáp         -         -         -           -       -    -          -          -   -    44    -   -   -   - 44




    Vinaincon E&C                                                                  -1-
APPENDIX 7
TOTAL OF COMPENSATION
      RD Project – Vietnam
      110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch            Resettlement
      Plan

RD 110kV Cai Dam New urban area substation and 110kV branch



                          APPENDIX 7: TOTAL OF COMPENSATION




No        Compensation components            Unit     Unit price   Quantity   Amount (VND)

I     Permanent Acquisitation

    1 Land

      Residential Land                    m2           2,500,000      3,074      7,684,419,000

      4th level house                     m2             750,000         30         22,500,000

    2 Trees

      Thieu Litchi                        Tree           200,000        114         22,800,000

      Longan                              Tree           200,000         94         18,800,000

      Persimmon                           Tree           200,000          5          1,000,000

      Jackfriut                           Tree           200,000         51         10,200,000

      Mango                               Tree         1,200,000          5          6,000,000

      Banana                              Tree            18,000         25              450,000

      Bead tree                           Tree             8,000         15              120,000

      Bamboo                              Tree            10,000         87              870,000

      Eucaliptus                          Tree             8,000          7               56,000

      Vegetable garden                    m2               8,000      3,074         24,590,141

    3 Other Compesation

      Transport allowance in the same
      province                            household    3,000,000          1          3,000,000

      Relocation allowance in the same
      province                            persons      1,260,000          5          6,300,000

      Employment Transition Support       household    3,000,000          1          3,000,000



      Vinaincon E&C                                                                      -1
      -
       RD Project – Vietnam
       110kV Cai Dam New Urban Area Substation and 110kV Branch        Resettlement
       Plan

       …

II     Temporary acquisitation

     1 Land

       Residential land                    m2             175,000   2,500      437,500,000

       …

     2 Crop

       Vegetable garden                    m2

       …

III    Total                                                                  8,241,605,141




       Vinaincon E&C                                                                  -2
       -
