                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00002312



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-44440 TF-94257)



                                       ON A

                                       CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 91.1 MILLION
                       (US$ 150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                     SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                       FOR A

                       RURAL DISTRIBUTION PROJECT



                               December 24, 2013




Vietnam Sustainable Development Unit
Vietnam Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2008)

                            Currency Unit = Vietnam Dong (VND)
                                    16,110 VND = US$ 1
                                   US$ 1.646542 = SDR 1

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1 – December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development   LDU    Local Distribution Utility
CPC      Central Power Corporation (formerly PC3)          LV     Low Voltage
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy                      MV     Medium Voltage
DNPC     Dong Nai Power Company                            MVA    Mega Volt Ampere
DPO      Development Policy Operation                      NPC    Northern Power Corporation (formerly PC1)
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment                   NPT    National Transmission Company
EMDP     Ethnic Minority Development Plans                 NPV    Net Present Value
EMPF     Ethnic Minority Policy Framework                  PAD    Project Appraisal Document
EMS      Environmental Monitoring System                   PAH    Project Affected Household
EPTC     Electricity Power Trade Unit                      PC     Power Corporation (or Power Company)
ERR      Economic Rate of Return                           PDO    Project Development Objective
EVN      Electricity of Viet Nam                           PFRP   Policy Framework for Resettlement Plans
FIRR     Financial Rate of Return                          PIU    Project Implementation Unit
Genco    Generation Company                                PMU    Project Management Unit
GOV      Government of Vietnam                             RCM    Retail Competitive Market
HDPC     Hai Duong Power Company                           RD     Rural Distribution
HH       Households                                        ROW    Right of Way
HPPC     Hai Phong Power Company                           RP     Resettlement Plans
IDA      International Development Association             SEDP   Socio-economic Development Plan
IFR      Interim Financial Reports                         SEDS   Socio-economic Development Strategy
IFRS     International Financial Reporting Standards       SEM    Strategy for Ethnic Minorities
km       Kilometer                                         SPC    Southern Power Corporation (formerly PC2)
KVA      Kilo Volt Ampere                                  VCGM   Vietnam Competitive Generation Market
KWh      Kilowatt hour                                     WCM    Wholesale Competitive Market


 




                                 Vice President: Axel von Trotsenburg
                               Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa
                                Sector Manager: Jennifer J. Sara
                           Project Team Leader: Hung Tan Tran
                              ICR Team Leader: Tendai Gregan




                                                    ii
                                                     VIETNAM
                                              Rural Distribution Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 21
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 45
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 49
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 51
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 52
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 53
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 62
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 63
  MAP




                                                                   iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Rural Distribution
Country:                Vietnam                  Project Name:
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P099211                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-44440,TF-94257
ICR Date:               10/16/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF
                                                                           VIETNAM
Original Total
                        XDR 91.10M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 81.26M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 91.10M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Northern Power Corporation (NPC, formerly PC1)
Southern Power Corporation (SPC, formerly PC2)
Central Power Corporation (CPC, formerly PC3)
Hai Phong Power Company (HPPC)
Hai Duong Power Company (HDPC)
Dong Nai Power Company (DNPC)
Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:
 AusAid

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/09/2006     Effectiveness:              03/16/2009        03/16/2009
Appraisal:            12/19/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/22/2008     Mid-term Review:            12/15/2010        02/21/2011
                                     Closing:                    06/30/2013        06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory




                                                iv
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                                 100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural services and infrastructure                                      100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:          Victoria Kwakwa                      Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:            Jennifer J. Sara                     Hoonae Kim
Project Team Leader:       Hung Tan Tran                        Hung Tien Van
ICR Team Leader:           Tendai Gregan
ICR Primary Author:        Tendai Gregan

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the proposed project is to improve the reliability and quality of medium
voltage service to targeted retail electricity distribution systems. The project will achieve
this though investment in rehabilitating and increasing the capacity of existing
distribution lines and substations and standardizing them to 22, 35 and 110 kilovolts (kV).


                                               v
It will enable distribute systems to meet the growing demand more efficiently, provide
better quality and quantity of electric power for productive uses, and reduce power
system losses. Technical assistance will complement the physical investment by
supporting the development of the PCs into modern power distribution utilities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objectives and key indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                    Formally
                                                  Original Target            Actual Value Achieved
                                                                     Revised
   Indicator           Baseline Value              Values (from                at Completion or
                                                                     Target
                                                approval documents)              Target Years
                                                                     Values
                  Interruptions in MV service at MV/LV transformer, in the project areas net of interruptions
Indicator 1 :     caused by failure of upstream transmission system or power shortage: Number/Duration
                  (hours)
                  PC1: 285/570                    PC1: 250/ 490                         PC1: 194/ 410
                  PC2: 1,954/5,519                PC2: 1,283/3,957                      PC2: 328/334
Value
                  PC3: 110/48                     PC3: 50/20                            PC3: 6.2/7.4
quantitative or
                  PC Hai Phong: 10/22             PC Hai Phong: 0/0                     PC Hai Phong: 0/0
Qualitative)
                  PC Hai Duong: 309/78.5 PC PC Hai Duong: 250/60                        PC Hai Duong: 245/55
                  Dong Nai: 48/19                 PC Dong Nai: 38/14                    PC Dong Nai: 36/12.5
Date achieved     12/31/2008                      06/30/2013                            03/31/2013
                  At project completion, the reduction of power interruptions to MV service at the MV/LV
Comments          transformer level – in both the number and duration – surpassed the original target values in
(incl. %          all six project areas. That is, this indicator was fully (100%) achieved. PC1, PC2 and PC3
achievement)      exceeded their original reliability targets by a wide margin, and the remaining PCs either
                  achieved or just exceeded their targets.
Indicator 2 :     Losses of MV system in the project areas (percent)
                  PC1: 7%                         PC1: 6.0%                             PC1: 5.9%
                  PC2: 5.42%                      PC2: 4.11%                            PC2: 3.0%
Value
                  PC3: 6.84%                      PC3: 5.24%                            PC3: 4.76%
quantitative or
                  PC Hai Phong: 7.9%              PC Hai Phong: 5.0%                    PC Hai Phong: 5.0%
Qualitative)
                  PC Hai Duong: 6.4%              PC Hai Duong: 5.6%                    PC Hai Duong: 5.45%
                  PC Dong Nai: 4.9%               PC Dong Nai: 4.7%                     PC Dong Nai: 4.34%
Date achieved     12/31/2008                      06/30/2013                            03/31/2013
Comments
                  100% of the targeted reductions in MV system losses were achieved, with achieved
(incl. %
                  reductions in MV system losses actually exceeding targets in five of the six project areas.
achievement)
                  Voltage excursions outside 200-240 Volts at MV/LV transformer, in the project areas:
Indicator 3 :
                  Number, duration
                  PC1: 600/4,800               C1: 30/ 240                           PC1: 30/ 230
                  PC2: 2,232/3,150             PC2: 381/655                          PC2: 0/0
Value
                  PC3: 214/205                 PC3: 70/20                            PC3: 65/18
quantitative or
                  PC Hai Phong: 112/20         PC Hai Phong: 50/10                   PC Hai Phong: 50/10
Qualitative)
                  PC Hai Duong: 150/35         PC Hai Duong: 80/15                   PC Hai Duong: 80/15
                  PC Dong Nai: 50/2.5          PC Dong Nai: 38/1.9                   PC Dong Nai: 0/09
Date achieved     12/31/2008                   06/30/2013                            03/21/2013
Comments          The quality of power supplied to the six project areas improved dramatically, when measured
(incl. %          at the MV/LV transformer level, as demonstrated by the fact that voltage excursions outside
achievement)      the 200-240 Volt band fell in both number and duration and 100% of the original targets were



                                                     vi
                  achieved.
Indicator 4 :     Consumption in the project rural areas (KWh)
                  PC1: 1.7x10^9                   PC1: 2.4x 10^9                        PC1: 3.3x 10^9
                  PC2: 4.6x10^9                   PC2: 8.1x10^9                         PC2: 27.7x10^9
Value
                  PC3: 211x10^6                   PC3: 464x10^6                         PC3: 466x10^6
quantitative or
                  PC Hai Phong: 278x10^6 PC Hai Phong: 360x10^6                         PC Hai Phong: 360x10^6
Qualitative)
                  PC Hai Duong: 350x10^6 PC Hai Duong: 550x10^6                         PC Hai Duong: 570x10^6
                  PC Dong Nai: 172x10^6           PC Dong Nai: 345x10^6                 PC Dong Nai: 543x10^6
Date achieved     12/31/2008                      06/30/2013                            03/31/2013
Comments          100% of targets achieved. Total electricity consumption in the project’s rural areas exceeded
(incl. %          targets in all six distribution networks. Standing out is the energy consumption in rural parts
achievement)      of PC2 (CPC), which at 27.7GWh was 3.4 times higher than the 8.1GWh target for PC2.
Indicator 5 :     Percentage of MV lines overloaded in the project areas
                  PC1: 25%                        PC1: 10%                              PC1: 9.5%
                  PC2: 15%                        PC2: 10%                              PC2: 0%
Value
                  PC3: 6%                         PC3: 0%                               PC3: 0%
quantitative or
                  PC Hai Phong: 15%               PC Hai Phong: 0%                      PC Hai Phong: 0%
Qualitative)
                  PC Hai Duong: 12%               PC Hai Duong: 5%                      PC Hai Duong: 4.5%
                  PC Dong Nai: 2%                 PC Dong Nai: 1%                       PC Dong Nai: 0%
Date achieved     12/31/2008                      06/30/2013                            03/31/2013
Comments          100% achieved, with actual reductions in overloaded MV lines in project areas either meeting
(incl. %          or exceeding original targets. These reductions in line overloading contribute to improved
achievement)      reliability of supplies and improved electrical safety.
Indicator 6 :     Percentage of MV transformers overloaded in the project areas
                  PC1: 34%                        PC1: 12%                              PC1: 10%
                  PC2: 15%                        PC2: 10%                              PC2: 0%
Value
                  PC3: 8%                         PC3: 0%                               PC3: 0%
quantitative or
                  PC Hai Phong: 12%               PC Hai Phong: 0%                      PC Hai Phong: 0%
Qualitative)
                  PC Hai Duong: 15%               PC Hai Duong: 5%                      PC Hai Duong: 4%
                  PC Dong Nai: 0.61%              PC Dong Nai: 0.45%                    PC Dong Nai: 0%
Date achieved     12/31/2008                      06/30/2013                            03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% of the targeted reductions in overloading of MV transformers were achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target        Formally         Actual Value
                                                   Values (from           Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                     approval             Target          Completion or
                                                   documents)             Values          Target Years
                  Distribution lines rehabilitated or newly constructed (km) under project: PC1, PC2, PC3,
Indicator 1 :
                  PC Hai Phong, PC Hai Duong, PC Dong Nai
                                                 PC1: 472.7                            PC1: 989.1
                                                 PC2: 617.4                            PC2: 1,571.4
Value
                                                 PC3: 387.3                            PC3: 451.1
(quantitative      NA
                                                 PC Hai Phong: 74.4                    PC Hai Phong: 75
or Qualitative)
                                                 PC Hai Duong: 29.99                   PC Hai Duong: 35.5
                                                 PC Dong Nai: 124                      PC Dong Nai: 141.5
Date achieved     12/31/2008                     06/30/2013                            03/31/2013
Comments           100% achievement of the original targeted increase in length of distribution lines either
(incl. %          rehabilitated or newly built, across all project areas. PC1 achieved more than twice its
achievement)      target, and PC2 2.5 times its target. These new lines are constructed to better quality than


                                                     vii
                  many of the lines they replace, which benefits customers in terms of reliability and of
                  supply and electrical safety.
                  Distribution substations rehabilitated or newly constructed (KVA), under projects: PC1,
Indicator 2 :
                  PC2, PC3, PC Hai Phong, PC Hai Duong, PC Dong Nai
                                                  PC1: 139,511                          PC1: 367,790
                                                  PC2: 17,888                           PC2: 105,530
Value
                                                  PC3: 39,875                           PC3: 64,970
(quantitative      NA
                                                  PC Hai Phong: 0                       PC Hai Phong: 0
or Qualitative)
                                                  PC Hai Duong: 10,440                  PC Hai Duong: 10,500
                                                  PC Dong Nai: 7,920                    PC Dong Nai: 72,410
Date achieved     12/31/2008                      06/30/2013                             03/31/2013
                  All of the targets for rehabilitating or building new distribution network substations were
Comments
                  achieved during the course of the project. In four of the five PCs, targets were exceeded,
(incl. %
                  thereby extending the reliability benefits of improved transformer capacity and power
achievement)
                  system reliability to a broader set of rural electricity consumers.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                           Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                            IP                  Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                       (USD millions)
  1      06/16/2009             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                        0.00
  2      06/25/2010             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      51.38
  3      06/28/2011             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      76.26
  4      03/25/2012             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      96.60
  5      12/01/2012             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     112.56
  6      06/25/2013             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     122.82

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile




                                                    viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Context
The project focused on improving the quality, reliability and efficiency of electric power
services in rural Vietnam, and thereby helping to improve productivity in the power
sector and in the economy as a whole. Vietnam’s rapid economic growth and
electrification in the period 1996 to 2007 resulted in rising demands for electricity, which
strained supplies and adversely affected the quality and reliability of electricity supply;
particularly in rural areas.
The aims of this project supported both the Government of Vietnam’s (GOV) Socio-
economic Development Plan for 2006 - 2010 and the Bank's Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS Report 38236-VN) for the same period. Both aim to sustain high economic
growth to reach middle-income status by 2010 while improving social achievements,
upholding social coherence, and sustaining the natural resource base. The project sought
to contribute to improving Vietnam's electric power service provision and thereby help to
improved Vietnam’s international competitiveness by boosting productivity in the power
sector and in the economy as a whole.
Gradual reforms to Vietnam’s power sector have been underway since 2005. The
objective of these reforms is to improve efficiency of the power sector, through structural
separation of EVN into separate functional business units, commercialization, the
introduction of competition in generation and effective regulation. The reforms build on
the Electricity Law (2005) and the Power Sector Reform Roadmap specified in the PM
Decision 26 in 2006 (amended by PM Decision 63 of November 08, 2013) that defines a
three phase gradual approach to sector reform with each phase split into two stages: an
initial pilot to test and improve the design and then full implementation.
      Phase 1 (2005-2014): Introduction of competition among state-owned generators
       through the establishment of the Vietnam Competitive Generation Market
       (VCGM), in which generators sell to a Single Buyer.
      Phase 2 (2015-2022): Expansion of competition at the wholesale level –-
       Wholesale Competitive Market (WCM), allowing generators to sell electricity to
       multiple wholesale purchasers including PCs and qualified large customers.
      Phase 3 (from 2023): Full competition by the introduction of Retail Competitive
       Market (RCM), in which the PCs’ monopoly as retail suppliers of small and
       medium sized customers is phased out.




                                             1
In coordination with the restructuring of the power sector, establishment of cost-reflective
tariff system, and promotion of demand side efficiency measures, the phased approach
aims to ensure stable power supplies with adequate level of investment, improve
efficiency of the sector performance and achieve reasonable price levels.
The condition of Vietnam’s rural power supplies at the time of appraisal was poor, with
frequent interruptions in supply arising from power quality issues, including: i)
interruptions in service at the Medium Voltage (MV) level arising from overloading of
transformers; ii) voltage excursions outside of 200-240 volts in the MV and Low Voltage
(LV) networks; iii) overloading of MV distribution lines; iv) older distribution lines and
substations requiring rehabilitation.
The consequences of these power quality and reliability issues in rural Vietnam included:
a) frequent and long disruptions to power supplies adversely affecting economic activities
and the delivery of services to rural communities; b) damage to customer’s electrical
equipment from voltage excursions; c) low levels of electrical consumption in rural areas;
d) electrical losses being inefficiently high, thereby reducing the efficiency of power
supplies across the country.
At the time of appraisal there were – and continue to be – requirements for massive
investments in all aspects of Vietnam’s power sector, simply to keep up with its rapidly
growing power demands and to support ongoing economic development.
Four critical challenges for Vietnam’s power sector at the time of appraisal were:
   1.   Optimizing power investments - particularly for generation;
   2.   Financing the investments that must be made;
   3.   Implementing the reforms in the power industry and restructuring EVN; and
   4.   Improving access and service quality.
The Rural Distribution project supported Vietnam in addressing these challenges through:
    Supporting network investments that form part of optimized power system plans;
       Bolstering capacity in power system planning, load forecasting, demand side
        management;
       Financing needed investments in the rural distribution network and in supporting
        the implementation of commercialization at power companies that would assist in
        them on attracting private sector finance;
       Assisting in the implementation of structural reforms of the Vietnam power sector,
        in particular through the corporate development of PC1, PC2, and PC3, so that
        they can in future act as independent participants in the evolving power market.
       Improving access and service quality, especially in rural areas.

Rationale for Bank Assistance
There were three primary reasons for the Bank’s assistance with this project.
First, it was consistent with the strong and deep engagement that IDA has had with
Vietnam since the late 1990s, covering the full range of power sector issues. The Bank



                                             2
has achieved this through a combination of economic and sector work, technical
assistance and investment lending. There has been a rich and diverse dialogue centered
on expanding and upgrading power service and supporting long-term reforms, backed by
a lending program designed to support investment needs. This twin track approach of
policy development and lending within a well-defined but flexibly-structured program
has proved effective in achieving major impacts in generation, transmission and
distribution, private sector participation in generation, rural electrification, renewable
energy and demand side management.
Second, in the early years several donors financed rural electrification, often focusing on
specific geographic areas of Vietnam. Improving access is, however, a long term and
complex process. IDA complemented these early investments, and developed a
comparative advantage, particularly as the issues have transitioned from traditional rural
electrification - connecting large numbers of consumers – to the more complex
combination of policy, management and physical outcomes. While other donors and
multilateral institutions could, and are welcome to, parallel finance investments, there are
none that were willing to undertake IDA's pivotal role over the long term.
Third, this project was consistent with IDA’s agreed ten-year power sector program with
Vietnam, which included four discrete operations that prioritize and deal selectively with
the issues while underpinning GoV's long term objective of universal access. This RD
project was the third in a planned series of four. The first Rural Energy Project (Cr. 3358-
VN, closed FY07) focused on increasing the number of basic connections. The second
Rural Energy Project (Cr. 4000-VN, FY05, ongoing) addresses rehabilitation of the
existing LV systems and the development of institutions and actors to ensure service
delivery at the retail level. This Rural Distribution (RD) project focused on the
improvement of the medium voltage systems and support the corporate development of
the electric power distribution entities, known as Power Companies (PCs). The fourth
operation, the Distribution Efficiency Project (Cr.5156-VN, started from FY13) supports
Vietnam’s PCs in providing quality and reliable electricity services and to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions through demand side response and efficiency gains.
The RD project thus forms a key part of the country’s rural electrification program, with
which the World Bank has been a major strategic partner since the late 1990s.
Vietnam’s concerted effort with rural electrification has achieved remarkable results in
providing access to more than 80 million people in over 33 years — from 1.2 million
having access in 1976 (2.5% of population) to 82 million having access in 2012 (98% of
population). The electrification program and its priorities have evolved over time from
providing simple connections, to developing and implementing strategic plans to securely
and efficiently meet rapidly growing demands for energy and ensuring quality of supplies.
The RD project fits into the fifth and sixth phases of Vietnam’s 38 year electrification
program: “focus on quality and regulation” (Phase 5) and “consolidation for the last mile”
(Phase 6).
During Phase 5 (2005 to 2008), Vietnam’s government focused on quality of supply and
power sector regulation, in addition to continued expansion of electricity access. There
was also: (i) greater emphasis on the enforcement of regulations; (ii) a shift in focus from
network extension to rehabilitation; and (iii) direct government support for extending


                                             3
electricity access, particularly to minorities and those in remote areas. The government’s
focus was not only on increasing electrification rates, but also on ensuring efficiency and
addressing institutional shortcomings in the sector. The Bank’s RE2 project was
developed to support these government objectives.
Phase 6 (Consolidation for the last mile) extends from 2009 to now and the focus of
Vietnam’s rural electrification program has shifted to ensuring sustainability of the rural
supply business. In parallel, the government is pushing for greater accountability,
working to determine the most appropriate strategies for extending access to those
without electricity, and ensuring affordability of electricity to the poor. Key milestones
include: (i) tariff reforms (Prime Minister’s Decision 21, issued February 2009); (ii)
approval of the Vietnam Distribution Code (2010); and (iii) consolidation of rural
electricity distribution and retail businesses into larger, more financially robust, PCs.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the project is to improve the reliability and quality of medium voltage
service to targeted retail electricity distribution systems.1 The project will achieve this
through investment in rehabilitating and increasing the capacity of existing distribution
lines and substations and standardizing them to 22, 35 and 110 kilovolts (kV). It will
enable distribution systems to meet the growing demand more efficiently, provide better
quality and quantity of electric power for productive uses, and reduce power system
losses. Technical assistance will complement the physical investment by supporting the
development of the PCs into modern power distribution utilities.
The six key performance indicators at Project Development Outcome level were:
    1. Reduction in interruptions in MV service at MV/LV transformer, in the project
       areas net of interruptions caused by failure of upstream transmission system or
       power shortage: number/duration (hours);
    2. Decrease in losses of MV system in the project areas (percent);
    3. Reduction in voltage excursions outside 200-240 Volts at MV/LV transformer, in
       the project areas, both in number and duration;
    4. Increase in energy consumption in the project rural areas (KWh);
    5. Reduction in percentage of MV lines overloaded in the project areas; and
    6. Reduction in percentage of MV transformers overloaded in the project areas.


1
  There is an inconsequential discrepancy in the wording of the PDO in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) and the Financing Agreement (FA). The PDO in the FA is: “The objective of
the Project is to improve the reliability and quality of medium voltage service to targeted retail
electricity distribution systems within rural areas of Vietnam” [italics added]. It appears a slight
change to the PDO wording in the FA was made for purposes of legal precision. The ICR uses the
PDO from the PAD because it was always implicit that all the “targeted retail electricity
distribution systems” were in rural areas of Vietnam, and indeed all the investments actually
made were consistent with the FA.



                                                 4
The two key performance indicators at the Intermediate Outcome level were:
        Increase in distribution substations rehabilitated or newly constructed (KVA),
         under projects: PC1, PC2, PC3, PC Hai Phong, PC Hai Duong, PC Dong Nai;
        Increase in distribution lines rehabilitated or newly constructed (km) under
         projects: PC1, PC2, PC3, PC Hai Phong, PC Hai Duong, PC Dong Nai.
Section F of the data sheet (see above) lists both the development objective level and the
intermediate outcome level indicators for each component of the project.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The development objectives and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project’s direct beneficiaries are electricity consumers in the rural areas of Vietnam
targeted by the project. The benefits of improving the reliability and quality of power
supplies in MV and LV systems accrue through reduced power interruptions, enhanced
economic opportunities (through increased productivity in energy intensive industries),
increased access and energy consumption, and relatively lower costs of energy due to
efficiency improvements.
The project also sought to indirectly benefit all energy consumers by enhancing the
capability of PCs to: i) develop their power systems using least cost capacity expansion
planning methods; and ii) operate commercially, including improving customer services.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had seven components, six of which were aimed at improving MV service in
the territories of participating PCs. Each of the six components contained two types of
subprojects involving new construction, rehabilitation, strengthening or a combination of
any of the three, of: (i) all of the 22 or 35 kV system requiring improvements within a
single province falling within the territory of a participating PC; or (ii) a single substation
or line at the 110 kV level feeding the 22/35 kV systems in rural areas within a province
or provinces falling in the territory of a participating PC. The seventh component
supported the corporate development of selected PCs through technical assistance.
The seven components are listed below, with financing amounts at the time the project
was approved.
Component 1: Improvement of the rural distribution system in the Northern Region
(Total cost $66.83 million, of which IDA $47.44 million). This component aimed to
rehabilitate and strengthen rural distribution networks in about 15 provinces in the
northern region of Vietnam, which are the responsibility of Power Company No.1 (PC1).
Component 2: Improvement of the rural distribution system in the Southern Region




                                              5
(Total cost $36.99 million, of which IDA $27.73 million). This component aimed to
rehabilitate and strengthen rural distribution networks in about 19 provinces in the
southern region of Vietnam, which are the responsibility of Power Company No.2 (PC2).
Component 3: Improvement of the rural distribution system in the Central Region
(Total cost $63.14 million, of which IDA $46.53 million). This component sought to
rehabilitate and strengthen rural distribution networks in about 11 provinces in the central
region of Vietnam, which are the responsibility of Power Company No.3 (PC3).
Component 4: Improvement of the rural distribution system in the area of Hai
Phong City (Total cost $1 7.85 million, of which IDA $13.16 million). This component
aimed to rehabilitate and strengthen rural distribution networks in the rural areas and
islands surrounding Hai Phong City, in the north of Vietnam, which are the responsibility
of Hai Phong Power Company (PC Hai Phong).
Component 5: Improvement of the rural distribution system in Hai Duong Province
(Total cost $6.45 million, of which IDA $5.06 million). This component aimed to
rehabilitate and strengthen rural distribution networks of Hai Duong Province in the
northern region of Vietnam, which are the responsibility of Hai Duong Power Company
(PC Hai Duong).
Component 6: Improvement of the rural distribution system in Dong Nai Province
(Total cost $11.38 million, of which IDA $8.59 million). This component aimed to
rehabilitate and strengthen rural distribution networks in Dong Nai Province in the
southern region of Vietnam, which are the responsibility of Dong Nai Power Company
(PC Dong Nai).
Component 7: Corporate development of PCs (Total cost $4.5 million, of which
IDA$1.5 million and AusAID $3 million). This component aimed to support the
corporate development of PCs 1, 2 and 3. It focused on building capacity of the PCs so
that they could in the future act as independent participants in the power market as it
develops according to the Government's road map for reform. Five main areas were
addressed:
     Developing PCs' financial management practices for greater autonomy;
     Increasing capacity to forecast market development and to undertake
        commercially-based investment decisions;
     Planning and implementing monitoring systems for performance standards;
     Supporting PCs as they prepare for further reform of the power sector; and
     Preparation of plans for completing GoV's program of universal electrification.

Phasing of project implementation
Each of the six investment components would be executed in two phases. The first phase
consisted of subprojects that had been appraised and were ready for implementation upon
approval by the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors. The second phase comprised
subprojects that are brought forward by implementing agencies when their preparation is
complete. IDA financing of the second phase subprojects were on a first-come, first
appraised basis; until all funds allocated to the component were committed. The technical
assistance component took place in a single phase over the lifetime of the project.


                                             6
1.6 Revised Components

The seven components remained the same, but the number of sub-projects under each
component evolved during project implementation. This is discussed in Section 1.7.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

The overall structure of the project did not change during implementation, with the seven
components remaining in place. However, there were significant changes to: a) the scale
and scope of each component; b) the schedule of implementation; and c) the funding
allocations across the first six investment components.
The scale and scope of the project increased after significant cost savings, arising from
competitive tendering for goods and works, enabled extra sub-projects to be developed
and approved. These extra sub-projects went beyond the original scope of the Phase 1
and Phase 2 investments envisaged when the project was approved in 2008.
The original schedule of project implementation was revised, following: a) the delay in
project effectiveness;2 and b) broader power sector reforms contributing to delays in the
implementation Component 7 (Technical Assistance). Despite the delay in project
effectiveness and start up, all implementing agencies were able to execute their capital
works sub-projects as per original plan and have them completed and commissioned by
June 30, 2013. In short, the time lost with the delay in the start - up was made up and this
overall ‘catch up’ occurred even with additional investment sub-projects being added on.
Two important changes took place early on during the implementation period:
    1. Electricity tariff reform was introduced in 2009 (PM Decision 21) establishing the
       market mechanism for the annual update of electricity tariffs and the adoption of
       national incremental block tariff for all residential consumers (of PCs and of
       Local Distribution Utilities (LDUs)), and requiring LDUs to prepare business
       plans and those unable to prove financial viability under the new tariff regime be
       absorbed by PCs; and
    2. Reform of the distribution sector in 2010, with the establishment of 5 Power
       Corporations (PCs) created from existing Power Companies. A key reason for this
       consolidation was to ensure distribution companies had sufficient scale to upgrade
       and continue to improve the efficiency of their distribution network services.
These reforms are considered to be positive developments that contributed to improving
the sustainability of the Vietnam’s power sector and its ability to efficiently expand to
reliably meet load growth. Four other key power sector reforms during the course of
project implementation were:
    1. In 2009, the GoV issued the principles for the power sector structure to be in
       place during the Vietnam Competitive Generation Market (VCGM). The National


2
  The project became effective on March 16, 2009, four months after it was signed on November
4, 2008. The project was approved by the World Bank Board on May 22, 2008.



                                              7
       Transmission Company (NPT) was created as a subsidiary of EVN, concentrating
       on the investment, operation and maintenance of the national high voltage
       transmission grid. The consolidation of distribution companies, including LDUs,
       into five large PCs in 2010 was a key step in the move to VCGM.
   2. The VCGM commenced full operation in July 2012 with participation of 48 direct
      trading generators with total capacity of 11,630 MW, which corresponds to
      approximately 35% of the total national system capacity. VCGM spot market
      provides generation price signals that both reflect daily supply and demand
      balance and impacts of seasonal change of hydropower resources.
   3. In 2012, the GoV decided to transfer ownership and operations of all EVN power
      plants (except for strategic multi-purpose hydropower plants) to three generation
      companies (Gencos) of sufficient scale and diversification of generation
      technologies to participate in the VCGM and to develop generation projects. It
      further limits the scale of any generator to 25% of the generation capacity
      installed in the power system, and establishes that there should not be shared
      commercial interest between generation, the single buyer (EVN Electricity Power
      Trade Unit – EPTC) and NPT.
   4. In 2013, three Gencos were created as corporations fully owned by EVN. Each
      Genco owns subsidiary power plants, and sells power into the VCGM.
The ongoing structural reforms to Vietnam’s power sector require the PCs to
commercialize and adapt their operations toward operations in a market based
environment. Component 7 of the project supported the development of capacity of the
PCs to make this transition over time.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project quality at entry was satisfactory.

First, the project responded to the priorities and wishes of the GoV and built on the
lessons of earlier power sector programs in Vietnam by having:
   1. A clear roadmap, with objectives focused on remedying some of the most
      pressing weaknesses in the country’s rural distribution network;
   2. A design that sought to ensure decentralized implementation and ownership, and
      flexibility to allow any cost savings during the course of implementation to be
      switched across sub-projects;
   3. Cost sharing arrangements that were appropriate to the financial capacity of
      participants to sustain debt servicing requirements; and
   4. Effective consultations and strong commitments from the large number of parties
      involved in implementation; including PCs, their Provincial Supply Departments
      (PSDs, for PCs 1, 2 and 3) and the LDUs.



                                             8
Second, the design supported rapid start-up and by the time of project negotiations, 25 of
the 54 sub-projects identified for implementation (by value $123 million out of $202
million in total) had obtained approval for their feasibility studies and about 50 per cent
of approved subprojects had detailed designs and procurement documents approved.
Such readiness was unusual in the Vietnam portfolio at the time.
However, despite this readiness for implementation, in the twelve months after the
project was approved by the Board, there had been no disbursements due to the five
month delay in the project signing and effectiveness. Given Vietnam’s country context, a
five month delay in project effectiveness is not rare.
The cost allocation across investment components was designed to be flexible, so that
during implementation any subproject could be added or substituted, provided that the
changes proposed were consistent with the project objective. This flexibility was used
soon after the project became effective and extra subprojects were added by PCs. By
March 2010, most of the contracts planned in the appraisal stage had been signed and it
was apparent that the whole credit allocation for each PC would not be fully utilized.
The PCs sought to use the residual funds for new subprojects, which were subsequently
prepared, appraised and approved. The residual funds arose from the savings from strong
competition in the tendering of goods and works. However, these savings were partly
offset by the appreciation of the US$ against the SDR between April 2008 and March
2009, which resulted in a reduction in total SDR91.1 million in IDA funds expressed in
US$ from US$150 million to about US$139 million.
At appraisal, the key risks to the Development Objective were identified as being related
to: (i) market restrictions having a negative impact on power system planning; (ii) weak
financial capacity of the PIUs; (iii) energy shortages or surpluses due to demand and
supply forecasting errors; (iv) fraud or corruption resulting in cost overruns or poor
quality outputs or subprojects. The key risks to Implementation Progress identified during
appraisal were: (i) implementation and disbursements starting slowly; and (ii) fiduciary
compliance issues.
A shortcoming was that the PDO definition and key performance indicators (KPIs) did
not adequately cover capacity building and technical assistance elements of the project
(Component 7); most likely because it was a small share of the overall project costs and
was of secondary consideration to the capital investments in terms of immediate impacts
on rural electricity supplies.
There was no review of quality at entry by the Bank’s Quality Assurance Group (QAG).

2.2 Implementation

Four of the six implementing agencies had previous experience in implementing a variety
of IDA financed projects — including RE2 (implemented by PC1, PC2 and PC3), SEIER
(PC1, PC2, PC3, DNPC), TD2 (PC3) — and were familiar with Bank procedures. The
other two implementing agencies (HDPC and HPPC) had not implemented Bank assisted
projects before, and had to acquire an understanding of the fiduciary requirements,
processes and procedures of the Bank – both ahead of and during implementation.




                                            9
Supervision missions, and the March 2011 Mid-Term Review, highlighted a number of
issues for management attention, as detailed below.

Delay in project effectiveness
       The delay in signing and making effective the Financing Agreement resulted in a
        10 month elapsed time between the project approval by the World Bank Board on
        May 22, 2008 and effectiveness on March 16, 2009.3 This delay undercut earlier
        efforts to ensure a rapid start-up of the project.
       Despite the effectiveness delay, by the time of the Mid-Term Review the six PCs
        had made substantial progress in project implementation, with $65 million (or
        44.8%) of the $142 million in project funds disbursed by March 30, 2011 and all
        the subprojects, including those under Phase 2 and Phase 3, having been approved.

Strong competition for goods and works generated significant savings
       At the time of the Mid-Term Review, the tendering of goods and works contracts
        had on average generated savings of between 10-15% of the official pre-bid cost
        estimates. These cost savings were a key reason why additional (Phase 2 & 3)
        subprojects could be financed using the available project finance.
Banking credit crunch had negative effect on construction timeframes
       The banking credit crunch in Vietnam in the period 2011 to 2013 resulted in a
        number of works contractors having severe difficulties in accessing lines of credit
        to finance construction works ahead of submitting claims for payment once
        construction milestones were met. In some cases the credit squeeze led to
        significant delays in the implementation of subprojects because contractors could
        not finance construction works. Some of these delays were so significant that a
        number of works contracts had to be terminated by the implementing agencies
        and the works contracts re-tendered for award. This resulted in further delays in
        the completion of sub-projects in cases where there were inadequacies in the
        documentation and handover process between the original contractor and the new
        one.
Two factors had a positive impact on the implementation and outcomes of the project:
    1. Community supervision of environmental safeguards. Community supervision
       proved to be a very effective means of ensuring community ownership,
       minimizing disputes, and having rapid and ongoing compliance with
       environmental management plans. Community supervision worked well for
       22/35 kV system subprojects.
    2. Flexibility of project design. The inherent project flexibility allowed it to adapt
       to unexpected changes in circumstances that arose during project implementation.


3
  An effectiveness delay flag is triggered when the elapsed time between project approval and
effectiveness is longer than nine months.



                                             10
        For example, during project implementation, the significant cost savings were
        flexibly used to deliver new investments that effectively increased the delivery of
        project benefits to a larger number of people than originally envisaged.
There was no QAG review of the quality of supervision for this project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The KPIs used in the project, both at the PDO outcome level and the Intermediate
outcome level, were appropriate and will remain relevant and suitable into the future.
The KPIs provide readily quantifiable measures of the physical PDO outcomes;
specifically improvements in the quality of service, reliability of supply, efficiency of
supply, and changes in the average consumption of electricity in the rural areas targeted
by the project.
The KPIs for intermediate outcomes were also straightforward and useful: i) Length of
distribution lines rehabilitated or newly constructed (km) under the project; ii) Capacity
of distribution substation rehabilitated or newly constructed (kVA) under the project.
However, the six PDO level indicators and the two intermediate level KPIs in the results
framework do not adequately cover Component 7 (Technical Assistance/Capacity
Building).
The design, collection and utilization of the M&E data for the project was carried out
effectively by the PCs throughout the project and served a useful means of tracking both
progress and measuring impacts of the investments financed by the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

At appraisal, it was determined that the project triggered three safeguards policies, all of
which were related to sub-components in the Transmission and Distribution System
Expansion and Reinforcement activities of the PCs (Components 1 to 6), including:
      OP/BP 4.01, Environmental Assessment;
      OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement; and
      OP 4.20, Indigenous Peoples (which in Vietnam are referred to as Ethnic
       Minorities).
The social and environmental impacts of the project are discussed below, together with a
short assessment of compliance with the safeguards policy requirements.
Social safeguards
The RD project, like many rural electrification projects, caused modest land acquisition
for the individual project affected household and small community-wide socioeconomic
impacts. Many of the subprojects aimed to upgrade systems based on an existing right of
way (ROW). The project was assessed as not causing culturally specific impacts on
ethnic minority communities.
The triggering of social safeguards policies OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) and
OP 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) at project appraisal resulted in EVN and the PCs having to


                                            11
prepare the following instruments to meet IDA’s social safeguards requirements: (i) a
Social Assessment; (ii) a Policy Framework for Resettlement Plans (PFRP); (iii) a
Strategy for Ethnic Minorities (SEM); and (iv) separate Resettlement Plans (RP) and
Ethnic Minority Development Plans (EMDP) for each of the subprojects.
There was a range of major challenges in carrying out land acquisition by PCs.
The slow progress on land acquisition on sub-projects had a negative impact on the
ability of implementing agencies to finalize construction contracts or resulted in delays
once works had commenced.
Some of the difficulties with land acquisition arose from weaknesses in the level of
collaboration between PCs and local authorities (provincial, commune, and village) in
terms of land acquisition and compensation.
Other significant land acquisition challenges during the course of the project
implementation were: (i) finalization of compensation for impacts in ROW; (ii)
disagreements by affected households with proposed compensation rates; (iii)
coordination with relevant agencies to finalize the administrative procedures around
consultations and compensation.
To improve the land acquisition process the following measures were taken: i) a
strengthened working relationship between implementing PCs and local authorities; and
ii) ensuring a smooth translation from approved safeguard documents (prepared by PCs)
into actual implementation (performed by local authorities). In addition, independent
monitoring reports were used as effective tools to track and improve the implementation
of safeguard activities. A good example of the effectiveness of strengthened working
relationship between PCs and local authorities is SPC, which found that once it began to
closely collaborate with PPC the land acquisition process was significantly accelerated.
At the end of the project, the overall compliance with social safeguard policies triggered
by the RE project was satisfactory.
Regarding OP 4.10 on Indigenous People, although this policy did not apply to all sub-
projects, where relevant (typically in mountainous areas with ethnic minorities),
implementing agencies were able to prepare Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP)
in accordance to the agreed Ethnic Minority Policy Framework (EMPF) of the project.
Local community consultations on the EMDPs were conducted to ensure that the public
was fully informed of the planned investment projects, their impacts, and safeguards
arrangements. Independent monitoring consultants were also mobilized to oversee the
execution of those social safeguard instruments. Given that most subprojects brought
direct benefits to affected communities, local people were generally supportive of their
implementation.
The land acquisition and compensation activities by Implementation Agencies
satisfactorily complied with OP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement. At the time of project
closing, the civil work of nearly all subprojects was completed, and had satisfactorily met
the requirements of OP 4.12 (e.g. compensation payment, mobilization of independent
consultant, etc.).
Environmental safeguards



                                            12
The project triggered OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and its environmental issues
were rated as Category B at project appraisal. Since each subproject was stand alone,
each required a separate review of its environmental safeguards issues, through
preparation of Environmental Assessments and Environmental Management Plans
(EA/EMPs).
The defined impacts included dust, noise pollution, soil erosion, traffic disturbance, and
road damage; which are minor and could be mitigated effectively.
The limited negative impacts were identified and mitigation measures were carried out by
each PMU. The use of independent monitoring consultants throughout project
implementation added capacity to support PCs in assessing environmental impacts,
designing appropriate mitigation measures, and supervising compliance with the EMP
and Safeguard Policy Framework.
The environmental safeguards compliance of the project was satisfactory, with it being
consistently in compliance with the environmental safeguard policies and environmental
performance requirements.
The Environmental Monitoring System (EMS) put in place operated effectively using a
cooperative mechanism between contractors, PMUs, local authorities, and local
communities. In general, any adverse environmental impacts or concerns were reported
and solved with the participation of relevant stakeholders.
Procurement
At the time of appraisal, the overall project risk for procurement was assessed as
moderate. The key issues and risks around procurement were seen to be: (i) potential
understaffing in all PMUs, given their other procurement workload; and (ii) the PIUs
under PC1’s PSDs, PC Hai Phong, PC Hai Duong and PC Dong Nai having inadequate
knowledge and experience of the Bank’s procurement processes and how they would
apply to their respective components. To mitigate these procurement risks during
implementation, the following countermeasures were proposed: (i) procurement training
for all implementing agencies at the start of the project; (ii) PC1 (now NPC)
implementing training of its PSDs; (iii) procurement consultants being hired by PC Hai
Phong, PC Hai Duong and PC Dong Nai; and (iv) procurement training, support and
advice by the Bank’s procurement specialists during the course of project implementation.
During implementation, the overall procurement performance of the project was
satisfactory. The large and diverse range of subprojects required a mix of ICB contracting
for goods and NCB contracting for works, and these were generally well executed by the
PIUs using the Bank’s procedures. However, as discussed in Section 2.2., once contracts
were entered into, difficulties sometimes arose when: (i) the provision of goods was not
well coordinated with the works schedules; (ii) contractors encountered financial liquidity
issues arising from the credit crunch and works were delayed; and (iii) works had to be
re-tendered following prolonged difficulties in contractors meeting their obligations, in
particular those faced with liquidity issues. During the project period no cases of fraud
and corruption were detected.


Financial Management


                                            13
Financial management performance ranged between Moderately Satisfactory and
Satisfactory throughout the Project period. Quarterly Interim Financial Reports (IFRs)
submitted were acceptable to the Bank despite a few delays in timely submission.
Audited financial statements and audit reports were generally submitted to the Bank on
time and were of acceptable quality. With the exception of the noncompliance with some
financial covenants — which has been a sector/corporate issue rather than being specific
to the Project — the implementing agencies were proactive in dealing with the
recommendations from the task team’s missions.
Although FM aspects were generally in compliance with Bank procedures, there were a
number of issues for improvement during the course of the project including: (i) quality
of financial reporting oversight; (ii) accounting, financial reporting and expenditure
verification on trust fund expenditures (TF094257); (iii) timely payment processing; and
(iv) use of materials and equipment financed by the Project.
There were clear indications that the quality of financial reports (both IFR and annual
audited financial statements) has not been good. For example, during the course of the
project there was at times: (i) inadequate accounting and financial reporting for the trust
funds; (ii) lack of review of audit reports and audited financial statements before their
submission to the Bank; and (iii) qualified entity audit reports. This signifies that the
performance of the overall accounting function and the control framework has been
below expectation, suggesting accounting and financial reporting supervision by both
PCs and EVN management has been weak or lacking.
For future projects it is recommended that EVN and the PCs explore the possibilities of:
(i) establish an internal audit function in both the PCs and EVN; and (ii) EVN including
accounting/financial reporting experts in the regular supervision missions to strengthen
the control environment over PCs accounting and financial reporting. The EVN internal
audit team or the experts would participate in project supervision missions and report to
EVN management on the compliance of PCs against fiduciary requirements.
Diversions of project materials and equipment to non-project activities and/or sites have
been an ongoing problem with EVN and its subsidiaries, mainly due to the constraints to
resolve emergency power outages. It is recommended that tighter inventory management
processes be developed and adopted in future to avoid such diversions.
Some significant delays to disbursements arose from the poor collaboration between the
implementing agencies and the expenditure verification agencies (both VDB and State
Treasury). These issues were only resolved late in the life of the project. It is
recommended that for future projects, greater care and attention be given up front to
establishing effective communications and collaboration between PCs and expenditure
verification agencies, and that both MoF and EVN more closely monitor and supervise
this collaboration.




                                            14
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Following completion and commissioning of new MV and LV network augmentations,
the operation and maintenance of assets was transferred from the PMUs to the
operational divisions of each PC.
The sustainability of benefits arising from the project will be contingent on the power
infrastructure in the project areas continuing to be capable of reliably meeting increased
electrical loads over time. The financing of new investments across Vietnam’s power
sector will require ongoing large annual investments, and the challenges of this are well
understood.
The capacity building provided by the Technical Assistance in the area of power system
planning will contribute to sustaining the outcomes of the project. Other technical
assistance provided through the course of the project has also bolstered institutional
capacity in the areas of: a) economic and financial analysis; b) asset valuation and
transfer procedures; c) using International Financial Reporting Standards; d) internal
auditing; e) load forecasting, network planning, and network modeling; f) information
technology and management information systems; g) procurement; h) project
management; i) demand side management and smart grids; and (j) connecting wind
turbines to the grid and managing their operation.
The broader power sector reform agenda is also expected to contribute to sustaining
reforms, including through: (i) critical assessments of the cost of service and revisions to
electricity tariffs to recover costs; (ii) improvements in the financial management of PCs;
(iii) regulatory reforms; and (iv) further commercialization of PCs.
The ongoing engagement of the Bank in Vietnam’s power sector has a range of strategic
follow up operations to this project, including: a) Energy DPO3, which supports the
ongoing reforms to the power sector; b) Distribution Efficiency Project, which includes a
pilot demand side management project in HCMC PC’s network; c) Trung Song
hydropower project; and d) dialogue on options to finance generation capacity expansion.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project objectives and design remain highly relevant to the development priorities of
Vietnam. While Vietnam is close to achieving universal access to electricity, the quality
and reliability of power supplies in rural areas deteriorates as electrical consumption in
those areas rapidly grows from a low base. Vietnam’s Socio-economic Development
Plan (SEDP) for 2011 – 2015 and its Socio-economic Development Strategy (SEDS)
2011-2020 both emphasize needed “breakthroughs” in relation to the development of
market-based institutions, infrastructure, and more skilled human capital. The Bank’s
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Vietnam, covering the period FY2012 to FY2016
is aligned with both the SEDP and SEDS. This project contributes to those objectives
because it has supported the ongoing power sector reform agenda, a key part of which is
the commercialization of power sector institutions and the financing of new infrastructure
to support Vietnam’s economic growth and development.



                                            15
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project has fully achieved its project development objective of improving the
reliability and quality of MV service to targeted retail electricity systems.
Targets for 47 out of 48 key performance indicators have already been achieved and/or
exceeded. The Project contributed to improvement of reliability and quality of Medium
Voltage (MV) service, as demonstrated by significant reductions achieved in project
areas in:
 (i)    Interruptions to MV service at MV/(Low Voltage) LV transformers: At project
        completion, the reduction of power interruptions to MV service at the MV/LV
        transformer level – in both the number and duration – surpassed the original target
        values in all six project areas. That is, this indicator was fully (100%) achieved.
        PC1, PC2 and PC3 exceeded their original reliability targets by a wide margin,
        and the remaining PCs either achieved or just exceeded their targets;
(ii)    Reductions in MV system losses: 100% of the targeted reductions in MV system
        losses were achieved, with achieved reductions in MV system losses actually
        exceeding targets in five of the six project areas. The average losses of MV
        system in the project area were reduced from 6.41% to 4.74% compared to the
        target of 5.1%.
(iii)   Reductions in both the number and duration of voltage excursions outside normal
        ranges at MV/LV transformers: The quality of power supplied to the six project
        areas improved dramatically, when measured at the MV/LV transformer level, as
        demonstrated by the fact that voltage excursions outside the 200-240 Volt band
        fell in both number and duration and 100% of the original targets were achieved.
(iv)    Reductions in the overloading of MV lines: 100% achieved, with actual reductions
        in overloaded MV lines in project areas either meeting or exceeding original
        targets. These reductions in line overloading contribute to improved reliability of
        supplies and improved electrical safety. Besides, 100% of the targeted reductions
        in overloading of MV transformers were achieved. The average percentage of
        MV lines overloaded in the project area was reduced from 12.5% to 2.33%
        compared to the target of 4.3%.

In addition, the total electricity consumption in the project’s rural areas exceeded targets
in all six distribution networks. Standing out is the energy consumption in rural parts of
PC2 (CPC), which at 27.7GWh was 3.4 times higher than the 8.1GWh target. In total,
3,950.7km and 621,200kVA of 22kV-35kV power lines and distribution transformer
substations were built and installed, compared to the target of 1,705km and 215,634kVA.
Three subprojects were not completed by the closing date because they were included in
the project scope later on during implementation in order to use the remaining available
funds. The overall PDO achievement is not affected by results of those subprojects.
Capacity of the 6 PCs has been improved and sound regulations and procedures of
internal financial audit have been put in place.




                                            16
The Rural Distribution project was completed on time, within budget, and with successful
implementation of nearly all investment subprojects before the project closing date.
The technical assistance activities in Component 7 supported capacity building objectives
by improving capabilities in core areas needed for PCs to operate as commercialized and
market-ready entities; including:
       Financial Management — International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS),
        asset valuation and transfer procedures, financial forecasting, internal audit;
       Procurement — public procurement, use of INCOTERMS;
       Project Management;
       Economic and Financial Analysis of distribution network investments;
       Regulatory Affairs — Performance Based Rate Setting;
       Load Forecasting and Network planning — Load forecasting methods and their
        application, improving efficiency through Demand Side Management and smart
        grid technology, network load flow modeling, connecting wind farms to the grid;
       Information Technology; and
       Enhancing Customer Services.
The Results Framework in the Data Sheet and Annex 2 describes the outcomes, outputs
and achievements of each of the seven components of the project.

3.3 Efficiency

An ex-post economic analysis has been undertaken of the investment subprojects of each
PC. The input costs relate to the construction costs incurred and estimated lifecycle O&M
costs. The benefits arise from the opportunity costs of unserved energy that would
otherwise result if the investments did not occur and power interruptions in rural areas
continued or worsened over time.
The economic analysis for the project components was carried out using two scenarios:
(i) with the project; and (ii) without the project. The 'with' project scenario includes the
investment in the rural networks. The 'without' project scenario assumes that there is no
investment for the rehabilitation and expansion of the MV networks, and consequently
the power quality and reliability situation of the existing distribution system would
further deteriorate. For the estimation of the economic indicators, namely ERR and NPV,
the following assumptions were made for the ex-post analysis: (i) all the costs are
expressed in constant 2007 prices; (ii) the capital investment costs are those actually
incurred, measured at 30 June 2013, and analyses are made over a project economic life
of 20 years (2013-2033); (iii) the cost for compensation, land acquisition and
environmental mitigation are included in the economic cost of the project; (iv) the
operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 2 percent of the investment costs; (v)
the buying price of energy was assumed to increase 5 per cent each year; and (vi) EIRR
of the project component is the discount rate at which the present value of the costs and
benefits streams are equal, and the NPV is based on a discount rate of 10 percent, which
is approximately the opportunity cost of capital in Vietnam.
The results of the ex-post economic cost-benefit analysis are contained in Annex 3. In
summary, the results indicate that all the investments were economically viable for all


                                            17
components, with EIRRs ranging from around 1 % in the SPC area to 58% in CPC’s area
(the Chan May 110kV substation).
The ex-post financial analysis results in Annex 3 indicate that the FIRR on
subprojects/components ranges from a low of 0% in the SPC area to over 30% on sub-
projects in the CPC and NPC areas. No sensitivity analysis has been undertaken ex-post
on how changes in key variables might impact the ex-post economic evaluation.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The project achieved its project development objective of improving the reliability and
quality of power services in selected rural areas of Vietnam, with investments having a
positive EIRR. Improvements in reliability and quality of supply arising from the project
contributed to an increase in average consumption across all in rural areas, but this was
also affected by other investments elsewhere on the networks. The result is measurably
improved quality and reliability of electricity services to customers in rural Vietnam.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The impacts of rural electrification in Vietnam are assessed in two World Bank studies
(2011 and 2013), both of which used longitudinal survey data of rural households. The
2011 study concluded that the electrification of households in rural Vietnam has resulted
in a better quality of life for many rural families.4 The benefits include: a) financial
savings from reduced use of kerosene for lighting and batteries; and b) increased
ownership of time-saving appliances, such as rice-cookers, freeing up time otherwise
spent on household chores for other productive activities, as well as reading, socializing
and leisure. The availability of electricity has also contributed to greater school
enrollments for rural youth, increased farm productivity, and higher household incomes.
The 2013 study contrasts electricity consumption and poverty between 2010 and 2012
using the Vietnam Household Living Standard Surveys of 2010 and 2012. 5 The key
findings of the 2013 study include:
       The poverty rate decreased in Vietnam from 20.7% in 2010 to 17.3% in 2012.
        The reduction in poverty occurred across all regions, in both urban and rural areas,
        and across ethnic minorities and the Kinh/Hoa majority of the population. In
        addition, poverty reduced across households with differing gender compositions.



4
  World Bank 2011, “The Vietnam Rural Electrification Experience: State and People, Central
and Local, Working Together”, The World Bank & Asia Sustainable and Alternative Energy
Program (ASTAE), The World Bank, Washington DC.
5
  World Bank 2013, “Note on Power Sector and Poor in Vietnam: Using the Vietnam Household
Living Standard Surveys 2010 and 2012”, World Bank, Hanoi.


                                              18
      While access to electricity in rural Vietnam increased fractionally, from 96.4% of
       rural households being connected to the grid in 2010, to 96.6% in 2012, the
       average monthly consumption rose 10% from 79.6kWh to 87.6 kWh, and the
       share of rural household consuming less than 50kWh per month fell from 38.1%
       in 2010 to 34.6% in 2012.
      The large increase in ownership of electric appliances in the period 2002-2008
       continued in the 2010-2012 period. In rural areas in 2012, 90.3% of households
       owned TVs, 86.2% fans, 77.5% electric cookers, and 49.5% pumps. These
       appliances are relatively cheap to buy and operate. In contrast, the ownership of
       luxury appliances — such as a fridge, washing machine, water heater, stereo and
       computer — was significantly lower in rural areas, ranging from 38.3% of rural
       households owning fridges to only 9.2% owning computers.
      The share of households with access to electricity varies significantly across
       regions, with the Midlands and Northern Mountains having the lowest household
       access to electricity (90.4%), while other regions have access rates between 97 to
       100% in 2012.
      By gender composition of households, there is little difference in the access to
       electricity.
      Nearly 70% of the poor consumed less than 50Wh per month in 2012, but across
       all expenditure deciles average consumption rose and the share of households
       using less than 50kWh per month fell.
      The lifeline tariff for poor customer, who consume less than 50 kWh per month,
       has remained the same in the period 1 March 2010 to 31July 2013 — 993
       VND/kWh — whereas all other tariffs have been adjusted upwards. This lifeline
       tariff, combined with a targeted 30,000 VND/month cash subsidy for the poorest
       households, has contributed to electricity remaining affordable to the poorest of
       households.
While there are no similar studies on the specific impacts of the RD project on household
poverty and social development in the project areas, it is evident from the project’s
results indicators that both the quality and reliability of supply to project areas increased
significantly. The increased quality and reliability of supply in the project areas should, in
principle, have had similar impacts on rural households as assessed in the two earlier
nationwide surveys.
It is suggested that a study be commissioned to better assess the social, poverty and social
development impacts of the RD project on the communities in the project areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The RD project was implemented through a time of significant institutional change in
Vietnam’s electricity sector, and supported through Component 7 of the project which
strengthened the capabilities of PCs in several critical business areas, including: load
forecasting and power system planning; financial management; customer service; and
project management.


                                             19
The structural shifts of consolidating LDUs into larger PCs and devolving financial and
planning responsibilities from EVN to the PCs requires that PCs adapt and be ready for
the next phase of reforms.
The institutional development aspects of the RD project appear to have been appropriate,
tailored to the needs and priorities of the PCs, and resulted in the training of large number
of staff across the PCs. The combination of in-country training and overseas study tours
has resulted in the adoption of new, more commercial, practices across PCs and of more
robust capabilities in load forecasting and power system planning and economic and
financial analysis of investment projects. The stronger capacities of PCs in these areas
are expected to benefit both the PCs and their customers over time.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The three key risks to sustainability are: i) increasing energy consumption in project areas
results in a deterioration in the reliability and quality of services over time; ii) insufficient
future investment in the power system to meet future load growth; iii) slow or weak
implementation of improved planning, financial management, accounting, procurement
and project management and other reforms that support commercialization of the PCs.
The first two risks can be mitigated through improved power system planning and
ongoing investment activity, both of which EVN and the PCs are seeking to carry out.
Component 7 of this project specifically included a number of capacity building activities
in the area of power system planning, including load forecasting, economic and financial
analysis of distribution investments, and performance based rate setting — all of which
support better system planning and the financing of further investment. In addition,
Component 7 of this project also included technical assistance on financial management,
accounting, procurement and project management.
The capacity building activities are expected to contribute to diminishing both the
probability and likely impact of three threats to the project’s development outcomes.
Other reforms underway in the Vietnam energy sector — including ongoing tariff
reforms, the planned equitization of generation companies, efforts to attract further
private sector investment, and further power market and regulatory reforms — will also
mitigate the risks to the development outcomes achieved by this project.




                                               20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank’s performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated
satisfactory. The design of the project effectively accounted for structural changes in
Vietnam’s electricity sector and sought to address critical issues of strategic importance
at this stage of Vietnam’s electrification and market reform process through: i) improving
the reliability, efficiency and quality of rural electricity supplies; and ii)
commercialization of PCs as they become increasingly independent of EVN and operate
in a wholesale power market and under a new regulatory framework.
The implementation arrangements were suitable, given the combination of centralized
and decentralized institutional and governance structures in Vietnam. The project’s
design was flexible, ready for rapid-start up and could be implemented on a decentralized
basis.
From a technical, financial and economic perspective, the investment subprojects were
sound — targeting the greatest weaknesses in the rural power distribution network.
In hindsight, one area where the preparation of the project could have been improved is
the monitoring and evaluation arrangements around: (a) the poverty, gender and social
development aspects of the project; and (b) project development outcome and
intermediate outcome indicators for the capacity building element of the project (i.e.
Component 7).

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank’s supervision of this nationwide project was satisfactory. While there were
some implementation difficulties, the Bank team was pro-active in its supervision and
implementation support to help identify and address the issues emerged. Examples of
their proactivity and responsiveness include:
      Mobilizing individual consultants to assist the clients in designing and
       implementing Component 7 of the project. In April 2010 national and
       international consultants assisted NPC, CPC and SPC scope and design the
       Capacity Building Technical Assistance, which had been delayed due to a
       combination of major structural reforms to the power sector in 2009 and the PCs’
       lack of familiarity with engaging consultants using Bank procurement methods.
      Providing clear and constructive advice on how to better manage contractor
       performance and to deal with situations where works contractors were faced with
       financial difficulties arising from the credit shortage in Vietnam.



                                           21
      Being very clear on fiduciary compliance requirements, and providing training to
       all PCs in FM and IFSR requirements, especially those PCs lacking experience
       with the implementation of IDA projects.
      Rapidly reviewing and clearing a large number of goods and works procurement
       packages in the first 12 months of the project to enable rapid start-up and
       disbursements after the project became effective.
      Giving constructive advice throughout the project on how PCs could more
       effectively engage with provincial, district, commune and village level authorities
       in order to ensure land acquisition and compensation matters could be resolved in
       a timely manner, in accordance with Social Safeguards policies and the law, and
       to the satisfaction of all parties.
The Bank team maintained a focus on development impacts, by: (i) focusing client
attention on the economic and social outcomes arising from the delivery of more reliable
and efficient electricity supplies to rural areas; and (ii) supporting with the scoping,
design and implementation of the Capacity Building Technical Assistance (Component 7).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank responded to client requests in a timely manner and provided suitable advice
on how to adapt to changes and address challenges that arose over time. Proactive
engagement with implementing agencies helped to reinforce safeguards, procurement and
fiduciary controls, in particular with PCs who were relatively inexperienced in
implementing Bank assisted projects.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

There was strong government commitment to the project investment components, which
contributed to the timely completion of the project. Through the course of the project a
stronger and more effective dialogue developed between the implementing agencies and
the various levels of government (central, provincial, district, commune and village). This
dialogue contributed to the resolution of a number of long-standing land acquisition
issues that had delayed the construction and commissioning of a range of subprojects.
The government has also demonstrated strong commitment to broader energy reform and
commercialization aspects of the project. The government has implemented key aspects
of the Power Reform Roadmap, including establishing the PCs, implementing
adjustments to electricity tariffs so that they recover a greater share of service costs and
contribute to sustainable operations and investments in the power sector, and establishing
the VCCM in 2012.



                                            22
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The implementation agencies performance was mixed.
      NPC (PC1) — encountered some initial challenges with varying quality in the
       technical designs of its subprojects, which were prepared by consulting engineers.
       These detailed design challenges were effectively overcome. NPC was able to
       complete all its subprojects before the project closing date.
      SPC (PC2) — SPC faced a range of challenges regarding land acquisition, which
       it initially struggled to address by more effectively engaging with local
       government authorities and householders. These land issues, especially around
       Ben Tre province, resulted in long delays in construction. SPC also had issues
       with project management, arising in part from the mismatch between scheduling
       of goods delivery and works construction.
      CPC (PC3) — found that International Competitive Bidding (ICB) took a long
       time because of difficulties with tender specification, evaluation, clearance and
       contracting. Civil works contractors were adversely affected by mismatches
       between the scheduling of goods delivery and works construction, which held up
       construction. CPC’s investment works were also negatively affected by the
       financial difficulties faced by works contractors hit hard by the credit crunch in
       Vietnam during 2011-2013. Finally land clearances and compensation proved
       challenging, resulting in delays to construction and commissioning of network
       upgrades.
      Hai Phong PC — had very long delays in goods procurements that impacted
       construction and major difficulties with work contractors, both of which led to
       large delays in commissioning, in particular the 110kV line to Cat-Ba.
      Hai Duong PC — was able to implement its four sub-projects and have them
       commissioned before the project closing date. HDPC’s MV rural network
       upgrade was executed in two stages. During the first stage, seven of the
       substations could not be built, with three of these due to difficulties arising from
       changes in the alignment of the Hanoi to Hai Phong highway, and four due to
       other construction difficulties. However, the equipment purchased for these seven
       substations was reassigned and used during the HDPC’s second stage MV
       network upgrade.
      Dong Nai PC — two subprojects were not completed in DNPC area. There were
       long delays in project implementation by DNPC throughout the course of project.
       These delays appear to stem from a combination of issues relating to: (i) effective
       management of procurement; (ii) project and contract management; (iii)
       difficulties with land acquisition/resettlement; (iv) works contractors being hard
       hit by the credit squeeze and being unable to finance construction works ahead of
       milestone payments being made under the contracts.




                                           23
However, in nearly all cases, the PCs were able to overcome implementation difficulties
and deliver all their appraised investment subprojects by the project closing date. This is
a significant achievement that has resulted in improved quality and reliability of supply to
rural areas of Vietnam.
In addition, all PCs were able to cement a range of institutional gains arising from the
technical assistance component of the project (Component 7). The institutional gains
include: improved understanding of financial management structure and practices for
commercialized entities; stronger load forecasting and power system planning capability;
technical skills improvements in economic and financial evaluation, and engineering; and
in key aspects of management and strategy.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the GOV’s and implementing agencies’ strong commitment and performance to
achieving the project objectives, overall Borrower’s performance is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

   a) Financial Management
          Effective implementation of projects demonstrates the importance of
           developing modern and robust FM systems, sound internal audit functions,
           and documentation and training within an organization that provides for
           continued adherence to FM procedures and requirements.
   b) Procurement
          Selection of works contractors is critical to successful delivery. Contractors
           need to have a strong balance sheet and be able to finance construction works
           ahead of contract payment milestones being met. The financial strength of
           works contractors should be given greater weight when short-listing eligible
           firms, especially for large capital works contracts.
          The manufacture and delivery of equipment should be properly sequenced
           with civil works; otherwise construction can be delayed. Alternatively, if
           equipment is purchased and left on site for long periods ahead of works
           proceeding, there are risks that it could be damaged, stolen or deteriorate.
   c) Project and Contract Management
          Project Management is a core skill for any power distribution company, and
           requires a range of skills including knowledge of contracts, risk management,
           dispute resolution, critical path analysis, engineering and construction, and
           people management. Project managers also need to have a keen eye for details
           and strong understanding of the commercial and financial risks arising from
           contract terms. Development of project management skills within each



                                            24
        implementing agency should be seen as a vital part of capacity building within
        the PCs, as they become increasingly independent on EVN for such services.
       Poor consultations with all potentially affected parties along a route or
        inadequate survey and design work can result in significant delays.
        Redesigning subprojects once construction has started can result in major cost
        blow-outs, as new rights of way and equipment might need to be purchased.
       The coordination between the authorities involved in the project
        implementation needs to be strengthened further. Roles and responsibilities
        should be clearly assigned to subordinate agencies (local authorities at district
        level and below), contractors, and project management units.
       Significant delays in the procurement of goods have a very negative impact on
        construction and the delivery of improved services to your customers.
       Mismatches in the sequencing of goods delivery and works risk contractors
        seeking price adjustments or compensation under the contract.
d) Land acquisition
       Early, comprehensive, effective and on-going engagement by power
        companies with all levels of local government and with affected persons is
        essential to resolving land acquisition and clearances in rural areas of Vietnam.
       Where land values are rising rapidly or people expect them to due to
        development, there is a large disparity between statutory land valuations and
        market valuations that can result in extended delays in land acquisition or
        access. EVN and the PCs may wish to give consideration to lobbying for
        reforms to the framework used for statutory land valuations, so that statutory
        land valuations are more closely aligned to market valuations.
e) External factors can adversely affect projects
       Economic slowdowns can result in dramatic reductions in forecast load
        growth, which in the DNPC case meant that major housing developments
        stopped in the area where some investments were planned for (e.g. 110kV
        Nhon Trach Substation and transmission line).
f) Safeguards
       Community supervision of environmental safeguards is a highly effective
        means of ensuring community ownership, minimizing disputes, and having
        rapid and ongoing compliance with environmental management plans.
        Community supervision also helps to resolve issues faster. Community
        supervision worked well for 22/35 kV system subprojects, and consideration
        should be given to promoting this role for future 110 kV projects.
g) Flexibility
   Flexibility is essential when a project has a large numbers of sub-components that
    have to be implemented in difficult areas over a long period of time. Flexibility is
    required in relation to changes in design and gaining approvals, in order to allow


                                         25
        for adaptation to unexpected changes in circumstances — such as case cost
        savings — that may arise during project implementation. Such flexibility can
        facilitate the benefits of the project being increased via the delivery of project
        outcomes to a larger number of people.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

See Annex 7.

(b) Co-financiers

AusAID was the only co-financier of the Rural Distribution project, allocating US$3
million for capacity building technical assistance.
No specific comments from AusAid.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable




                                            26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                  Appraisal Estimate  Actual(USD            Percentage of
           Components
                                   (USD millions)      millions)              Appraisal
1. NPC (PC1)                              51.05            49.49               96.9%
2. SPC (PC2)                              30.98            24.36               78.6%
3. CPC (PC3)                              52.82            83.81               158.7%
4. Hai Phong PC (HPPC)                    17.17            19.88               115.8%
5. Hai Duong PC (HDPC)                      4.24            9.19               216.7%
6. Dong Nai PC (DNPC)                       9.54           14.74               154.5%
7. Corporate Development of PCs             4.50            3.19                70.9%
             Total Baseline Cost         170.29           204.66               120.2%
Physical Contingencies                      8.56            0.00                0.00%
Price Contingencies                       15.86             0.00                0.00%
              Total Project Costs        194.71           204.66               105.2%
Interest During Construction              12.43            13.94               112.1%
      Total Financing Required           207.14           218.6                105.5%


(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of    Estimate   Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                     millions) millions)
 AUSTRALIA: Australian Agency for
                                         Grant           3.00        3.19          106.3%
International Development
                                         Counterpart
Borrower                                                54.15       81.24           150%
                                         Funding
 International Development Association
                                                       150.00      123.42           82.3%
(IDA)




                                             27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

For each of the six investment components, the overall budget allocation, total value of
contracts (including estimated values of the price adjustments and variation orders) and
disbursement status are presented in Table A2.1.
   Table A2.1: Investment Components: budget, commitments and disbursements (US$ million)
 Component   Description                           Budget        Contract     Disbursement   Percentage
                                                 Allocation    commitments     ($ million)   disbursed
                                                 ($ million)    ($ million)
     1       Improvement of rural distribution      43.9           43.4           40.6          94%
             system in the Northern Region
     2       Improvement of rural distribution      25.8           20.9           20.7          99%
             system in the Southern Region
     3       Improvement of rural distribution      43.0           40.1           39.2          98%
             system in the Central Region
     4       Improvement of rural distribution      12.0           15.9           10.7          67%
             system in Hai Phong City
     5       Improvement of rural distribution      4.6            5.4            4.6           85%
             system in Hai Duong province
     6       Improvement of rural distribution      7.9            8.7            7.6           87%
             system in Dong Nai province
 TOTAL                                             137.2          134.5          123.4         92%


Some reallocations of project funds took place towards the end of the project, with
unused funds originally allocated for Component 1, 2 and 3 being transferred to make up
shortfalls in the funding of Component 4, 5 and 6. This reallocation took place after EVN
and PCs worked with MoF to amend the Subsidiary Agreements with MoF.

Component 1: Improvement of rural distribution system in the Northern Region

NPC was responsible for implementation of this component, which consisted of 17
subprojects, specifically:
        nine (9) subprojects for rehabilitation and strengthening of the MV system (22/35
         kV) in nine provinces (Thai Binh, Ving Phuc, Bac Giang, Nam Dinh, Thanh Hoa,
         Quang Ninh, Tuyen Quang, Ha Nam, Nghe An); and
        eight (8) subprojects for rehabilitation and expansion of the 110kV system.
These are summarized in Table A2.2.
Overall implementation progress of this component was satisfactory. At the close of the
project all the MV system upgrades across the 9 provinces were completed, following the
commissioning into service of last MV upgrades in Nghe An province. MV system
upgrades in the other 8 provinces had energized between September 2011 and March
2013 (i.e. in Thai Binh, Vinh Phuc, Bac Giang, Nam Dinh, Thanh Hoa, Quang Ninh,
Tuyen Quang and Ha Nam).
In addition, all nine 110kV subprojects were commissioned by the project’s 30 June 2013
closing date. The last three subprojects to be completed and put into operation in June
2013 were the three subprojects added on to Component 1 late in its implementation,
specifically: i) the Son Tay–Yen Mao–Pho Vang power line; ii) Tang Loong 2 substation;
and iii) Cai Dam substation.


                                                    28
      Actual costs totaled US$48.5 million, which was 76% of the estimated amount at time of
      appraisal (US$63.8 million).

                      Table A2.2: Component 1 – summary list of NPC (PC1) subprojects
                                                                          Cost
                                                Completion date                                      T/D line
                                                                      (USD millions)      Capacity
               Components                                                                             length
                                                                                         (MVA/KVA)
                                                 At                    At                              (km)
                                                          Actual                Actual
                                              appraisal             appraisal

110 kV system subprojects

110kV Son Tay – Yen Mao – Pho Vang T/L        12/2009     06/2013      4,930     3,840                48.520

110kV Thuan Thanh – Phu Chan – Tien Son
                                              01/2010     12/2012      5,420     4,150                23.560
T/L

110kV Phu Chan substation and branch          09/2009     10/2010      3,830     3,150          63     3.945

110kV Phu Ninh substation and branch          10/2010     11/2011      3,473     2,861          40     0.800

110kVThanh Nong – Kim Boi T/L and 110kV
                                              06/2010     08/2012     12,398     9,351          25    45.500
Thanh Nong substation
110kV Trung Ha substation and branch in Phu
                                              03/2011     10/2012      2,887     1,002          25     8.480
Tho province
110kV Cai Dam township substation and
                                              06/2012     06/2013      2,728     2,750          40     0.348
branch

110kV Tang Loong 2 Substation                 06/2012     06/2013      3,310     2,880          40

Sub-total 110kV system                                                38,976    29,984         233   131.153

MV (22/35 kV) system subprojects

Improvement of 22/35kV system of Nam Dinh     10/2011     03/2012      4,400     3,149      31,110      94.0

Improvement of 22/35kV system of Thanh Hoa    07/2011     12/2011      4,621     3,999      28,455   125.019

Improvement of 22/35kV system of Thái Bình    12/2010     09/2011      2,239     2,125      24,930     51.65

Improvement of 22/35kV system of Bac Giang    12/2010     10/2011      1,691     0,990      10,100     34.00

Improvement of 22/35kV system of Vinh Phuc    12/2010     09/2011      2,167     2,028       8,810    15.307

Improvement of 22/35kV system of Nghe An      12/2011     04/2013      4,386     3,278      22,540   120.945

Improvement of 22/35kV system of Ha Nam       06/2012     02/2013      1,857     1,386      22,920    57.724
Improvement of 22/35kV system of Tuyen        12/2011     03/2012      1,541     1,152       4,510    38.350
Quang
                                              12/2011     05/2012      1,960     1,406      19,840    77.783
Improvement of 22/35kV system of Quang Ninh
Sub-total MV system                                                   24,862    18,523     173,215   614.778

TOTAL MV & 110kV Systems                                              63,838    48,507     406.215   745.931




                                                     29
        Changes in scope of 110kV sub-projects
        There were significant changes in the scope of the 110kV subprojects of NPC’s Phase 2
        implementation (see Table A2.3). The total number of 110kV subprojects in Phase 2 of
        Component 1 increased from five (5) to seven (7), with:
                  one of the original subprojects being dropped (110kV Dong Hoa–Thai Binh T/L);
                  three new subprojects added (110kV Cai Dam township substation and branch,
                   110kV Tang Loong 2 Substation, 110kV Trung Ha substation and branch in Phu
                   Tho province); and
                  the scope of works in several original subprojects increased.
                   Table A2.3: Change in Subprojects of Component 1 - phase 2 at 110kV level
         No.     Original Phase 2 sub-projects     Revised Phase 2 sub-projects          Changes
         1       110kV Thanh Nong – Kim Boi T/L    110kV Thanh Nong – Kim Boi T/L        Added 110kV Thanh
                                                   and 110kV Thanh Nong substation       Nong substation
         2       110kV Pho Noi – Tien Son T/L      110kV Thuan Thanh – Phu Chan –        Change in route and/or
                                                   Tien Son T/L                          length of T/L
         3       110kV Phu Chan substation         110kV Phu Chan substation and         Branch line added
                                                   branch
         4       110kV Dong Hoa – Thai Binh T/L    ----                                  Dropped
         5       110kV Phu Ninh Substation         110kV Phu Ninh substation and         Branch line added
                                                   branch
         6       ----                              110kV Cai Dam township substation     Added this sub-project
                                                   and branch
         7       ----                              110kV Tang Loong 2 Substation         Added this sub-project
         8       -----                             110kV Trung Ha substation and         Added this sub-project
                                                   branch in Phu Tho province

        The 110kV substations at Cai Dam and Tang Loong 2 were added to the project at a later
        stage in order to use up the funds allocated to NPC. Cost savings in the procurement of
        goods and works procurement enabled these two sub-projects to be added, and it also
        enabled the scope of works for other sub-projects to be increased. The 110kV Dong Hoa
        – Thai Binh T/L, which was originally part of the Phase 2 works, was dropped.

        Component 2: Improvement of rural distribution system in the Southern Region

        SPC was responsible for the implementation of this component, which comprised 19
        subprojects for the rehabilitation and strengthening of the MV system and four
        subprojects for rehabilitation and expansion of the 110kV system (see Table A2.4).
                         Table A2.4: Component 2 – summary list of SPC (PC2) subprojects
                                             Completion date                   Cost
                                                                                                                  T/D line
                                                                               (USD)               Capacity
No.   Subproject                                                                                                  length
                                                                          At                        (MVA)
                                        At appraisal      Actual                       Actual                      (km)
                                                                       appraisal
MV (22/35kV) System Improvements, Phase 1
 1    Ben Tre Province               22-Apr-10            25-Oct-11    4,377,476       2,951,918      3.725       304.950
 2    Binh Duong Province            26-Mar-10            24-Apr-11    2,214,030       1,103,506      7.325       128.928
 3    Dong Thap Province              6-Feb-10             8-Sep-10    1,085,951         446,699      0.025        66.833
 4    Ba Ria — Vung Tau Province     17-Jan-10            31-Oct-12    1,159,778         634,495      5.412        37.992
 5    Vinh Long Province             15-Feb-10             26-Jul-12     943,526         416,905      0.235        45.787



                                                          30
MV (22/35kV) System Improvements, Phase 2a
  6   An Giang Province                 9-Aug-11       9-Dec-11       1,607,714      781,252         0    49.314
  7   Binh Phuoc Province                2-Jul-11      6-Dec-11         971,346      485,296         0    55.244
  8   Binh Thuan Province              14-Aug-11       31-Jul-12      1,836,820    1,223,042     0.850    94.843
  9   Ninh Thuan Province               6-May-11      12-Dec-11         311,800      267,917     1.137     8.180
 10   Can Tho City                     15-Sep-11      14-Dec-12       1,269,408      639,975     1.000    76.970
 11   Long An Province                 25-Jun-11      20-Aug-12       1,611,363      854,091         0    76.549
 12   Tay Ninh Province                27-May-12      21-Sep-12       1,617,562    1,199,978     0.960    71.100
 13   Tien Giang Province                5-Jul-11      8-Dec-12       1,624,802      879,342         0    49.855
MV (22/35kV) System Improvements, Phase 2b
 14   Bac Lieu Province                25-Oct-11       9-Oct-12       1,184,643      754,410         0    62.658
 15   Hau Giang Province               31-Oct-11      22-Nov-12         495,485      340,055         0    19.587
 16   Kien Giang Province              30-Nov-11      25-Oct-12       2,843,302    1,737,607     0.650   156.235
 17   Lam Dong Province                12-Dec-11       8-Dec-11       1,457,846    1,056,542     5.202    53.287
 18   Soc Trang Province               15-Oct-11      21-Dec-12       1,729,834    1,216,032     0.245   126.098
 19   Tra Vinh Province                24-Aug-11      12-Dec-11         902,330      578,903         0    52.649
Additional 110kV Subprojects – Phase 3 (enabled by earlier cost savings)
20 110kV Tay Ninh – Chau Thanh
     Transmission line, Tay Ninh        19-Nov-12       17-Dec-12     1,928,748    1,184,392        0     13.486
     Province
21 110kV Chau Thanh Substation,
                                         5-Aug-12       17-Dec-12     2,243,613    1,802,494    40.000        0
     Tay Ninh Province
22 110kV Giong Trom – Binh Dai
     Transmission line, Ben Tre          26-Oct-12      27-Nov-12     3,121,645    2,092,227        0     20.900
     Province
23 110kV Binh Dai Substation, Ben
                                         21-Oct-12      27-Nov-12     2,210,450    1,711,455    40.000        0
     Tre Province
TOTAL MV & 110kV Systems                                             38,749,473   24,358,532   106,766   1571.44


        As a result of costs cost savings in the procurement of goods and works, four 110kV
        subprojects were added in early 2012, including the 110kV substation Chau Thanh with
        110kV transmission line; Tay Ninh-Chau Thanh and Binh Dai 110kV substation; and the
        Giong Trom-Binh Dai transmission line. SPC was able to complete these four additional
        subprojects before the end of 2012 - a remarkable achievement (see Table A2.4).
        All SPC’s MV and 110kV sub-projects were completed and put into operation by the end
        of 2012 — well before the project closing date. The actual costs incurred to 31 October
        2013 totaled US$26.25 million, which was 67% of the estimated amount at time of
        appraisal (US$38.74 million). The actual costs incurred at the closing date totaled $24.35
        million, which is the figure shown in Table A2.4

        Component 3: Improvement of rural distribution system in the Central Region

        CPC implemented Component 3, which consisted of: i) rehabilitation and strengthening
        of the MV system in six provinces (Quang Binh, Quang Tri, Thua Thien Hue, Quang
        Ngai, Binh Dinh, and Phu Yen); and ii) 10 subprojects for the rehabilitation and
        expansion of the 110kV system (Table A2.5).




                                                        31
             Table A2.5: Component 3 – summary list of CPC (PC3) subprojects
                                                             Cost, Total
                                                                                Installed
                                                            investments
                                                                               capacity of    T/D line
                                                          (including EVN
                                            Completed                           station or   Length of
 No.             Subprojects                                  funding)
                                              date                             additional       line
                                                            US$ millions
                                                                              transformer      (Km)
                                                           At                     (MVA)
                                                                    Actual
                                                        appraisal
 22/35kV system
                                                            26.76     16.92         68.65        453.27
       Quang Binh rural distribution
 1
       project                               12/2012         1.78      1.42            10         39.77
       Quang Tri rural distribution
 2
       project                               8/2012          3.64      2.99              9        42.81
       Thua Thien Hue rural distribution
 3
       project                               6/2013          7.11      4.04            21        130.42
       Quang Ngai rural distribution
 4
       project                               5/2013          2.70      1.20              1        15.12
       Binh Dinh rural distribution
 5
       project                               5/2013         10.09      6.16            28        185.27
 6     Phu Yen rural distribution project    6/2012          1.44      1.11            0.5        39.87
 110kV Substation and line                                  43.14     32.64        275.00        175.06
 7     Duy Xuyen 110kV substation            12/2010         2.27      2.04            25                -
 8     Son Hoa 110kV substation              12/2010         3.32      2.69            16         23.00
 9     Krong Ana 110kV substation            6/2011          2.57      2.40            25          8.00
       Chu Prong 110kV substation and
 10
       branch line                           12/2011         4.24      3.52            16         20.80
 11    Chan May 110kV substation             7/2012          2.92      1.91            40          1.30
 12    Cu MGar 110kV substation              5/2012          4.30      3.24            25         20.00
 13    Tan Mai 110kV substation              12/2012         4.33      3.02            63          2.60
       Ea Kar - Krong Pak 110kV
 14
       substation and branch line            5/2013          7.16      4.44            40         27.60
 15    Dong Hoi - Ba Don 110kV line          6/2013          5.71      3.98              -        40.70
       Ta Rut 110kV substation and
 16
       branch line                           6/2013          6.33      5.40            25         31.06
 TOTAL                                                      69.90     49.56        343,65        628.33

Changes in scope – four additional 110kV sub-projects
Strong competition for the supply of goods and works for subprojects in original Phases 1
and 2 of Component 3 resulted in considerable savings. In 2011 CPC sought to apply
these implementation savings to 4 new 110kV sub-projects, which involved the
construction of 82km of 110kV lines, and three 110kV substations with total capacity of
151MVA (see Table A2.6). These four new 110kV subprojects were appraised and
approved.
Overall implementation progress was satisfactory. By the close of the project, all of MV
subprojects for six provinces were fully completed and commissioned into service. By
March 2013, seven out of 10 110kV subprojects had been completed and put into
operation. Between March 2013 and the project closing date, CPC successfully pushed
to complete the last three remaining 110kV subprojects – the Dong Hoi-Ba Don


                                                  32
transmission line, Eakar – KrongPak transmission line, and 110 kV Ta Rut substation and
branch line. All three were commissioned into service by 30 June 2013, meaning all
CPCs subprojects, including those added on during Phase 3, were completed before the
project closing date.
                   Table A2.6: Phase 3 subprojects, Component 3, SPC (PC3)
                                                       EVNCPC                   IDA                 Total
No.                   Sub-projects
                                                     (million USD)        (million USD)        (million USD)
        Tan Mai Kon Tum 110 kV substation and
13                                                                 1.02             3.42                 4.44
        branch line
        Ea kar - Krong Pak 110 kV line and 110 kV
14                                                                 1.28             2.80                 4.08
        substation
        Dong Hoi – Ba Don 110 kV double circuit
15                                                                 0.48             1.93                 2.41
        line
        110kV Ta Rut 110 kV substation and branch
16                                                                 0.74             3.60                 3.80
        line
Total                                                              6.04            14.30                20.67


Actual costs totaled US$ 61.8 million, which was 71% of the estimated amount at time of
appraisal (US$ 87.1 million).

Component 4: Improvement of rural distribution system in Hai Phong City

Hai Phong Power Company implemented this component, which comprised three
subprojects for rehabilitation and strengthening of 110kV lines.

        Table A2.7: Component 4 – summary list of Hai Phong City (HPPC) subprojects
                                                               Cost, Total             Installed
                                                         investments (including       capacity of         T/D line
                                      Completed               EVN funding)             station or        Length of
 No.           Subprojects                                    $/US millions
                                        date                                          additional            line
                                                                                     transformer           (Km)
                                                     At appraisal         Actual         (MVA)


 110kV system
       Cho Roc – Cat Ba 110kV
  1                                   June 2013             7.03           5.51            -                   38.6
                line
         Dong Hoa – Long Boi
  2                                   June 2013            10.82           7.90            -                   35.8
             110kV line
         Nam Đình Vũ 110kV
  3                                    On going             7.81           3.23            63                  4.0
             substation
 TOTAL                                                     26.44          16.64            63                  78.4


Overall implementation was satisfactory.
The two subprojects originally appraised for Component 4 were the 110kV Dong Hoa –
Long Boi line and 110kV Cho Roc – Cat Ba line.
During the final supervision mission in April 2013, it was noted that:
       1. the 110kV Cho Roc – Cat Ba subproject would only be completed before the
          project closing date if HPPC worked much more effectively with local
          governments to finalize landowner compensation and sort out contract


                                                    33
        termination issues with the former works contractor. Both of these issues were
        adversely affecting the ability of the new works contractor to complete the civil
        works;
    2. the 110kV Nam Dinh Vu substation would most likely not be completed before
       the project closing date of June 30, 2013. This substation was added to the
       project in 2011 in order to make use of surplus funds that arose from cost savings.
       All the goods contracts of this subproject been executed and the goods were
       delivered before June 30, 2013. It was agreed that Hai Phong PC would pay for
       any remaining works carried out after 30 June 2013 using its own funds, and
       return any unused IDA Credit funds to the designated account.

Component 5: Improvement of rural distribution system in Hai Duong province

Hai Duong Power Company was responsible for implementing this component, which
consisted of four subprojects for the rehabilitation and strengthening of 110kV and MV
systems.

  Table A2.8: Component 5 – summary list of Hai Duong PC (HPPC) subprojects
                                                 Completion date       Cost (USD millions)
  No.               Subproject
                                          At appraisal       Actual   At appraisal   Actual
   1     Tien Trung 110kV Substation        Oct-12          Feb-12       2.605       2.223
         Haiduong Rural Medium Voltage
   2                                        Feb-12          Dec-11       1.511       0.960
         Distribution
   3     Hai Duong - Lai Khe 110kV Line     Dec-12          May-13       2.696       1.586
         Haiduong Rural Medium Voltage
   4                                        Mar-13          Dec-12       0.792       0.876
         Distribution (Stage 2)
 TOTAL                                                                   7.604       5.645


Overall implementation of Component 5 was satisfactory. All of the physical investment
subprojects were completed and commissioned into service before the project closing
date, June 30, 2013.
The outcomes and impacts of the improvements to the rural power distribution network
in Hai Duong province have met or exceeded the key results indicators, as shown in the
data sheet at the front of this report.
Towards the end of the project, some of the unused IDA Credit funds of other PCs were
reallocated to Hai Duong PC to ensure that HDPC made use of the available IDA funds
across the project to meet contract commitments in excess of its original IDA Credit
allocation.

Component 6: Improvement of rural distribution system in Dong Nai province

Dong Nai Power Company implemented Component 6 of the project: the rehabilitation
and strengthening of 110kV and MV systems in Dong Nai province (see Table A2.9).




                                            34
           Table A2.9: Component 6 – summary list of Dong Nai PC (DNPC) subprojects
                                                                            Cost (USD
                                            Completion date                                             T/D line
                                                                             millions)       Capacity
 No.              Subproject                                                                            length
                                          At                               At                 (MVA)
                                                          Actual                    Actual               (km)
                                       appraisal                        appraisal
                                        May 12,       September 30,
  1        MV System, Dong Nai                                           2.681      1.250     7.608     119.500
                                         2010             2011
                                                       The110kV
                                                       substation
                                                      completed on
                                                      November 21,
                                                         2011.
           110kV Xuan Loc - Cam My
                                       October 22,
  2        transmission line and                                         5.090      3.660     25.000    19.338
                                          2010              The
           110kV Cam My Substation
                                                       transmission
                                                        line has not
                                                      completed due
                                                      to one position
                                                            T32.
           110kV Dau Giay Substation   December        February 29,
  3                                                                      3.847      2.576     40.000     3.546
           and transmission line       14, 2010             2012
           110kV Nhon Trach                           The subproject
                                       August 18,
  4        Substation and                                is being        3.058      1.616     40.000     0.500
                                         2013
           transmission line                           implemented
 TOTAL                                                                   14.676     9.102    112.608    142.884


Overall project implementation was satisfactory. While the MV subproject, 110kV Dau
Giay substation, and 110kV Xuan Loc – Cam My line subproject were completed by 30
June 2013, the 110kV Nhon Trach substation, which was added to the project scope at a
later stage in order to use the remaining available funds, was not. The goods contracts for
the Nhon Trach substation were executed and the goods delivered before June 30, 2013.
During the final supervision mission in April 2013, Dong Nai PC confirmed that it would
pay for the remainder of the delayed Nhon Trach substation works contract out of its own
funds, and return any unused funds to the designated account.

Component 7: Corporate Development of PCs

Technical Assistance to PCs was funded by a US$ 3.4 million grant from Australia
(through AusAID) and about US$1.5 million from the IDA Credit.
Technical assistance activities under Component 7 supported capacity building objectives
by improving capabilities in core areas needed for PCs to operate as commercialized and
market-ready entities; including:
           Financial Management — International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS),
            Asset Valuation and Transfer procedures, Financial forecasting, Internal Audit;
           Procurement — public procurement, use of INCOTERMS;
           Project Management;
           Economic and Financial Analysis of Distribution Network investments;
           Regulatory Affairs — Performance Based Rate setting;


                                                     35
         Load Forecasting and Network planning — Load Forecasting methods and their
          application, Improving efficiency through Demand Side Management and Smart
          Grid Technology, Network load flow modeling, Connecting wind farms to the
          grid;
         Information Technology; and
         Enhancing Customer Services.

Table A2.11 summarizes the capacity building activities undertaken and completed by
the close of the project on June 30, 2013.
Table A2.11: Component 7 (Technical Assistance) - List of activities and costs, by implementing PC
                                                                                                 Value (US$
                                               Activity                                           thousand)
NPC
1   Performance Based Rates Setting and Indicators (including training workshop)                       71.86
2   Financial Analysis and Medium Term Financial Forecasting (including training                      124.34
    workshop)
3   Developing Asset Valuation & Transfer Procedures (including training workshop)                    127.20
4   Study tour on Advanced Distribution Systems (to Brazil and Columbia)                              221.77
5   Efficient distribution and introducing smart grid technologies in Vietnam (including              171.73
    training workshop)
6   Capacity Improvement of Corporate Financial Management in NPC                                     114.37
7   Economic and finance analysis in distribution investment (including training workshop)             81.53
8   Workshop on Capacity Building and Project management (in Nha Trang)                                67.66
9   Training on procurement, disbursement according to the WB Guidelines and                           45.46
    INCOTERMS 2010 for NPC staff
    Sub-Total NPC                                                                                    1,025.92
SPC
1   Support to PCs on International Financial Reporting Standards (including training                 222.40
    workshop and study tour to Australia)
2   Load Forecasting and Network Planning (including training workshop and study tour to              207.54
    Australia)
3   Connection of Wind Farms to Grid (study tour to Spain)                                             60.19
4   Efficient distribution system planning and engineering (study tour to Japan)                       71.52
5   Training in Procurement management in public sector (in Italy)                                    112.24
6   Enhancing Distribution and Retail Supply Customer Services (including training                    563.96
    workshop and study tour to Australia)
    Sub-Total SPC                                                                                    1,237.86
CPC
1   Information Technology strategy (study tour to USA)                                                43.88
2   Training Workshop for Capacity Building and Project Management (in Da Nang)                       103.92
3   Management Capacity Building (including workshop in Da Nang and training course                   229.22
    about work efficiency and persuasion skills)
4   International program for development evaluation training course (in Canada)                      162.12
5   Internal audit procedures training                                                                 36.41
6   Network Modeling (including training workshop and study tours to Australia and                    218.59
    Thailand)
7   Organization of district power distribution companies (including training workshop and            163.21
    study tour)
8   Workshop on Technical Assistance outcomes and lessons learnt                                        63.72
        Sub-total CPC                                                                                1,021.08
TOTAL                                                                                                3,284.86




                                                  36
After initial delays, Component 7 got underway in 2010. The delays in starting
Component 7 were due to: the major structural reforms to the power sector in 2009; PCs
lack of familiarity with engaging consultants using World Bank procurement methods;
and the delayed signing of subsidiary agreements between Ministry of Finance and PC1,
PC2, and PC3 regarding the use of the Australian Trust Fund monies. The subsidiary
agreements were only signed on 29 October 2010, nearly two years after the signing of: i)
the IDA project and financing agreement (by World Bank and GoV); and ii) the Grant
Agreement for TF094257.
In April 2010, a decision was made to implement Component 7 using a two pronged
approach whereby the three PCs would cooperate on specific activities of common
interest, and act independently of each other on TA tailored for their specific
requirements. For each topic of common interest, one PC was appointed the leading PC.
The 24 technical assistance activities developed by the PCs can be grouped into five main
topics:
     Financial (5 activities);
     Business and planning (3 activities);
     Technical (6 activities);
     Project Management and Procurement (6 activities); and
     Corporate restructuring (4 activities).

A summary of the activities’ objectives and results follows.

Financial

1. Developing Asset Valuation & Transfer Procedures
     Implementation Unit: NPC
      Objective: To procure or develop software capable of valuing assets according to
       International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and to provide training to PCs
       in how to understand and use the software to value their assets using IFRS. Draft
       plans for the transfer of fixed assets to and from the asset register.
      Results:
     (i) The consultant provided to PCs the software for asset valuation under IFRS and
         the plans for procedures transferring assets when divestments are made by PCs.
  (ii) Training was given to 156 Finance and Accounting staff from 5 PCs in how to
       distinguish between Vietnamese Accounting Standards (VAS) and IFRS software
       and asset valuation under IFRS.

2. Financial Analysis and Medium Term Financial Forecasting

     Implementation Unit: NPC




                                            37
    Objective: Helping PCs understand the rules, procedures, analysis and medium-
     term financial forecasts by VAS and IFRS standards and the difference when
     making the forecast by 2 standards.
    Result: The consultant has introduced two analytical and medium-term financial
     forecasts models by VAS and IFRS standards and training for 156 leaders and
     officials in charge of Finance and Accounting from 5 PCs to self-analysis and
     evaluation medium-term financial units in 2 standard.

3. International Financial Reporting Standards

    Implementation Unit: SPC
    Objective: To enable PC staffs to prepare annual accounts using IFRS.
    Results:
     (i) The consultant introduced sample financial statements according to international
     standards and guidelines for financial officers of 5 PCs to implement them.
     (ii) A 17 person delegation drawn from EVN and the PCs travelled to Australia to
     learn from and exchange experience with a number of companies on the preparation
     of annual financial statements that comply with International Financial Reporting
     Standards (IFRS).

4. Strengthening Capacity for Corporate Financial Management for NPC

    Implementation Unit: NPC
    Objective: To compile a management handbook in accordance with the corporate
     governance model-management financial, management of cash flow for NPC
     suitable with production models, the level of staff from NPC.
    Results: A Consultant critically assessed the current limitations in the financial
     management of NPC and provided training to 180 leaders from NPC and its various
     units (e.g. Director, Chief Accountant, Head of Planning, Business, Technical
     Dept.) to improve their understanding of key areas where financial management
     could be improved. The consultant also compiled a financial management
     handbook for NPC.

5. Consulting service of Internal Audit Workshop (CPC)

    Implementation Unit: CPC
    Objective: Fostering knowledge of internal audit staff working in accounting
     finance for implementation of projects funded by the World Bank loan.
    Results: A consultant developed a handbook of general internal audit process (for
     projects using World Bank loans). 25 officers from 5 PCs in charge of internal audit
     received training in internal audit structure and procedures.




                                           38
Business and planning

6. Load Forecasting and Network Planning

    Implementation Unit: SPC
    Objective: Develop a training program to help EVN and PCs to perform load
     forecasting and gird planning.
    Results: An evaluation report on the status and a plan for capacity building in load
     forecasting and grid planning was proposed for 5 PCs by consultants. 15 officers
     from 5 PCs and EVN also went on a study tour to Australia to exchange information
     and learn about the load forecasting and power system planning processes used in
     Australia for transmission and distribution networks. Australia has a competitive
     wholesale energy market, with a mixture of centralized and decentralized power
     system planning processes.

7. Study tour to Brazil and Columbia on Advanced Distribution Systems

    Implementation Unit: NPC
    Objective: To learn from power companies in Brazil and Columbia about the
     application of smart grid measurement technology, business management, reducing
     power losses, and the use of Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) technology in
     business operations..
    Result: 23 officers from PCs, EVN and state agencies exchanged experiences, and
     learned from a selection of electricity companies in Brazil and Columbia on how
     they applied AMI (or Smart Meters) in their business & customer service
     management models. AMI, together with related management information systems,
     can help reduce power losses, improve the efficiency of both metering and billing
     processes, and improve the quality of utilities customer service.

8. Enhancing Distribution and Retail supply customer services

    Implementation Unit: SPC
    Objective: A comprehensive assessment of the status of the customer services in 5
     PCs thereby making roadmap to improve the quality of customer services, training
     delivery methods and assessment of customer satisfaction.
    Results:
     (i) A consultant was engaged to prepare an evaluation report on the strengths and
     weaknesses of the current customer services and roadmap for improving the quality
     of customer services in 5 PCs;
     (ii) 19 staff from EVN and 5 PCs exchanged knowledge with some Australian
     electricity companies on how they provided customer services and sought to be
     customer focused businesses.
     (iii) Assessment of customer satisfaction in 7 provinces and cities;


                                            39
     (iv) 330 staff were trained in customer services skills and methods of assessing
     customer satisfaction.

Technical
9. Connection of Wind Farms to Grid Study tour
    Implementation Unit: SPC
    Objective: Capacity building and awareness for SPC in the technical and
     operational issues associated with connecting wind power plants to the grid.
    Results: 4 SPC staff visited a number of companies in Spain to study and exchange
     knowledge and experience on the technical and operational aspects of grid
     connected wind turbines.

10. Efficient Distribution and Introducing Smart Grid Technologies in Vietnam

    Implementation Unit: NPC
    Objective: Assess the current state of power distribution networks in Vietnam and
     design a roadmap to develop smart distribution grids for 5 PCs.
    Results: A consultant provided a report that: assessed the current state of the grids
     of 5 PCs; examined options for introducing smart grid technology; and outlined a
     roadmap for the 5 PCs to develop smart grids. The results of this report were
     presented to a workshop with 50 participants drawn from the five PCs.

11. Network Modeling

    Implementation Unit: CPC
    Objective: For planning staff to gain skills and the ability to use the power system
     analysis software, PSS/E, to simulate, analyze, and optimize power system
     performance. Power flow computational analysis is a core competency required by
     PCs for power system planning and operational contingency analysis.
    Results: After surveying the 5 PCs, a consultant researched, developed and
     conducted training for 25 engineers from 5 PCs over 3 weeks. The training aimed
     to develop better understanding of the application of PSS/E software and
     proficiency its use for power flow and contingency analysis. 11 engineers went on
     study tours to observe how PSS/E was used by Ausgrid, one of the largest power
     distribution companies in Australia. The lessons from this training program have
     been implemented and applied to power system planning by the PCs.

12. Information Technology Strategy Training

    Implementation Unit: CPC
    Objective: Help the IT staff of CPC in understanding the functional and operational
     specifications of information technology used by commercialized Power Companies
     to provide effective and efficient customer services and information.


                                           40
    Results: 5 staff from CPC received training in how a Power Company’s IT Strategy
     could be developed to focus on customer services by providing better information
     and customer relations services.

13. The development of efficient distribution system engineering

    Implementation Unit: SPC
    Objective: To enhance the knowledge base of PCs staff in the critical areas of: a)
     effective operation and maintenance of power distribution systems, so as to reduce
     losses; and b) improving electric system reliability.
    Results: 12 staff from various PCs exchanged experiences with Japanese power
     distribution system operators on: operations and maintenance, electricity loss
     reduction and power measurement.

14. Smart Grid Training

    Implementation Unit: CPC
    Objective: To help staff better understand smart grids, the application of smart-grid
     technologies to power distribution networks, and a roadmap for implementing smart
     grids.
    Results: 15 CPC staffs were involved in training and South-South knowledge
     exchange on smart grids operated by Electric Companies in Thailand.

Project Management and Procurement

15. Economic and Financial Analysis of Distribution Investment

    Implementation Unit: NPC
    Objective: To develop model building methods, forms and guidelines for the
     calculation and analysis of economic and financial analysis for the project of power
     distribution networks.
    Result: Provided financial and economic analysis model that was applied to sub-
     projects financed by the WB and provided training to 84 staff from 5 PCs.

16. Organization of Training on Procurement according to the WB guideline

    Implementation Unit: NPC
          Objective: To develop capacity in executing the procurement, and
           disbursement procedures associated with World Bank sponsored activities




                                           41
              and understand the 2010 changes the International Commercial Terms
              (INCOTERMS) referred to in procurement documentation.6
       Results: 247 staff from 5PCs working on procurement and disbursement of the WB
        projects trained to better understand World Bank procurement procedures and were
        provided with guidance on how to overcome practical difficulties and obstacles
        during the project implementation. These staff were also advised on the application
        of the 2010 version of INCOTERMS.

17. Training in Procurement Management in the Public Sector

       Implementation Unit: SPC
       Objective: To enhance and develop the skills of of EVN and PCs in conducting
        public sector procurement in accordance with international regulations.
       Results: 11 staff from EVN and 5 PCs participated in courses to develop skills in
        executing public procurement processes in accordance with the international
        regulations. The training took place at ILO International,Italy, over 3 weeks.

18. International Program for Development Evaluation Training

       Implementation Unit: CPC
       Objective: Provide a common tool needed to evaluate policies, programs and
        projects.
       Results: 13 staff from EVN and PCs were engaged three weeks training in Canada
        on methods, techniques to monitor and evaluate projects.

19. Workshop for Capacity Building and Project Management according to the WB
Guidelines

       Implementation Unit: NPC
       Objective: Provide information to PCs on procedures, processes and regulations in
        the management of projects using the World Bank loans with procedure from
        project preparation and disbursement.
       Results: 143 staff were provided with the documents and complete information on
        procedures, processes and regulations in the implementation of projects funded by
        WB, as well as guidelines for the implementation of the PC in bidding,
        disbursement, security policies according to the World Bank guidelines.




6
  The INCOTERM rules or International Commercial Terms are a series of pre-defined
commercial terms published by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) that are widely
used in International commercial transactions or procurement processes.



                                             42
Corporate restructuring

20. Training guide (capacity building project management)

    Implementation Unit: CPC
    Objective: Guide PCs involved in the Project in how to prepare World Bank related
     project documentation (investment projects, environmental management plans,
     security policies, procurement, disbursement).
    Results: 101 staff from PCs were trained to handle situations and problems
     encountered in the procurement, disbursement and settlement of security policies
     under the provisions of the World Bank.

21. Management Capacity Building

    Implementation Unit: CPC
    Objective: To build appropriate training and development frameworks for
     enhancing the management capacity of CPC, SPC, NPC.
    Results: Consultant surveyed management status of 3 PCs, and identified the most
     suitable management training and capacity building approach for each of CPC, NPC
     and SPC.

22. Organization of District Power Distribution Companies

    Implementation Unit: CPC
    Objective: To assess the organization, functions, duties and management of District
     Power Companies and to set up an organizational model and implementation
     roadmap for a District Power Company.
    Results: Consultant conducted analysis and evaluation activities of the district
     power companies and proposed organizational structure and operations for reformed
     district power companies, building a roadmap for implementing new organizational
     structures and activities.

23. Corporate Training Courses about work Efficiency Evaluation and Persuasion
Skills

    Implementation Unit: CPC
    Objective: To develop staff knowledge and skills in persuasive communications,
     and how to critically evaluate the efficiency and performance of their professional
     tasks and management functions.
    Results: 90 staff from CPC were trained in work Efficiency Evaluation and
     Persuasion Skills.




                                          43
24. Performance Based Rates

    Implementation Unit: NPC
    Objective: To assist PCs to understand the important aspects of theory and applied
     methodology used to develop Performance Based Rates (PBR), which can be used
     to establish distribution network and retail tariffs. PCs were also informed of the
     potential efficiency gains that a PBR mechanism can help achieve by focussing PCs
     on key performance and costs areas.
    Results: Introduce the PCs the PBR mechanism, PBR application in determining
     electricity prices as well as a set of proposed indicators to evaluate the performance
     of power distribution corporations.




                                           44
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Project Economic Analysis

Methodology at Appraisal

The economic analysis for the project components are carried out using two scenarios: (i)
with the project; and (ii) without the project. The 'with' project scenario will be the
investment in the rural networks and the 'without' project scenario will mean doing
nothing; there would be no investment for the rehabilitation and expansion of the MV
networks, and the situation of the existing distribution system would further deteriorate.
For the estimation of the economic indicators, namely ERR and NPV, the following
assumptions were made: (i) all the costs are expressed in constant 2007 prices; (ii) ) the
capital investment costs for the first phase are considered in 2009, and analyses are made
over a project economic life of 20 years (2009-2029); (iii) the cost for compensation,
land acquisition and environmental mitigation are included in the economic cost of the
project; (iv) the operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 2 percent of the
investment costs; (v) the buying price of energy was assumed to increase 5 percent each
year; and (vi) EIRR of the project component is the discount rate at which the present
value of the costs and benefits streams are equal, and the NPV is based on a discount rate
of 10 percent, which is approximately the opportunity cost of capital in Vietnam.

Methodology at project completion

Identical to that used at appraisal, except that actual costs at 30 June 2013 are used and 20
year time horizon covers 2013 to 2033.

Project Financial Analysis

Methodology at Appraisal

The following cost assumptions are made: (i) capital costs are baseline costs plus
physical and price contingencies; (ii) power purchase prices are assumed to remain
constant after 2020; (iii) operating and maintenance (O&M) costs for MV lines are
estimated at 2 percent of investment costs; (iv) transmission and distribution losses are
estimated at 3.5 - 7 percent for MV networks after project implementation; (v) foreign
costs are converted to VND at the rate of 17,500 to the US dollar, assuming all
investments will be implemented during the first year.

Methodology at project completion

Identical to that used at appraisal, except that actual costs at 30 June 2013 are used and 20
year time horizon covers 2013 to 2033.




                                             45
Results

Component 1 (NPC)
                                                                                            At sub-project
                                                                  At Appraisal
                        Subproject                                                           Completion
                                                                 EIRR           FIRR       EIRR       FIRR
110 kV subprojects
110kV Son Tay – Yen Mao – Pho Vang T/L                            14%           21.3%       13%      20.6%
110kV Thuan Thanh – Phu Chan – Tien Son T/L                       25%           29.2%       22%      32.5%
110kV Phu Chan substation and branch                              19%           32.5%       22%      31.5%
110kV Phu Ninh substation and branch                              23%           21.5%       23%      20.2%
110kVThanh Nong – Kim Boi T/L and 110kV Thanh Nong
                                                                 12.9%          21.3%       13%      20.4%
substation
110kV Trung Ha substation and branch in Phu Tho province          17%           14.9%       15%      15.6%
110kV Cai Dam township substation and branch                      21%            21%        25%       19%
110kV Tang Loong 2 Substation                                     25%           19.6%       28%      17.7%
MV (22/35 kV) system improvements
Nam Dinh province                                                 18.2%         16.5%       16%       15%
Thanh Hoa province                                                25.2%         17.2%       12%      11.4%
Thái Bình province                                                11.4%         20.8%       21%      17.6%
Bac Giang province                                               10.83%         15.6%       18%      15.7%
Vinh Phuc province                                                12.5%         11.9%      10.32%    12.9%
Nghe An province                                                  15.5%         17.5%      11.93%    16.1%
Ha Nam province                                                   27.3%         21.2%      22.84%    26.9%
Tuyen Quang province                                              15.4%         18.9%      10.05%    15.1%
Quang Ninh province                                               15.1%         16.8%      16.73%    20.1%


Component 2 (SPC)
 No.   Subproject                                                       At Appraisal         At sub-project
                                                                                               Completion
                                                                     EIRR         FIRR       EIRR     FIRR
                                                                      (%)          (%)        (%)      (%)
       MV (22/35 kV) system improvements, Phase 1
 1     Ben Tre Province                                                  2.35       0.14      1.13      0.32
 2     Binh Duong Province                                               2.23       0.13      1.68      0.00
 3     Dong Thap Province                                                1.32       0.03      3.49      0.38
 4     Ba Ria _ Vung Tau Province                                        1.14       1.04      1.00      0.05
 5     Vinh Long Province                                                1.30       0.03      1.05      0.30
       MV (22/35 kV) system improvements, Phase 2a
  6    An Giang Province                                                 1.14       0.02      1.94      0.29
  7    Binh Phuoc Province                                               2.18       0.12      2.88      0.64
  8    Binh Thuan Province                                               1.62       0.08      1.61      0.30
  9    Ninh Thuan Province                                               0.74      -0.04      0.72      0.12
 10    Can Tho City                                                      3.02       0.23      1.42      0.30
 11    Long An Province                                                  1.06       0.00      1.76      0.15
 12    Tay Ninh Province                                                 1.52       0.06      2.46      0.22
 13    Tien Giang Province                                               1.29       0.04      1.88      0.29
       MV (22/35 kV) system improvements, Phase 2b
 14    Bac Lieu Province                                                 2.30       0.15      1.69      0.39
 15    Hau Giang Province                                                1.16       0.05      2.77      0.63
 16    Kien Giang Province                                               2.37       0.17      3.99      1.23
 17    Lam Dong Province                                                 0.87       0.00      0.62      0.10
 18    Soc Trang Province                                                1.27       0.03      0.71      0.14
 19    Tra Vinh Province                                                 2.07       0.13      2.15      0.63
       Additional 110kV Subprojects, Phase 3
 20    110kV Tay Ninh – Chau Thanh Transmission line, Tay Ninh
       Province                                                          3.16       0.15      0.97      0.18
 21    110kV Chau Thanh Substation, Tay Ninh Province



                                                46
 22   110kV Giong Trom – Binh Dai Transmission line, Ben Tre
      Province                                                            2.27     0.09       1.52         0.25
 23   110kV Binh Dai Substation, Ben Tre Province

No.   Subproject                                                  At Appraisal               At sub-project
                                                                                               Completion
                                                             ENPV             FNPV          ENPV       FNPV
                                                           (US$ mill)       (US$ mill)    (US$ mill) (US$ mill)
      MV (22/35 kV) system improvements, Phase 1
 1    Ben Tre Province                                            97.48           2.75        96.01         12.62
 2    Binh Duong Province                                         46.39           1.19        43.63         -1.21
 3    Dong Thap Province                                          12.62          -0.23        15.46          1.41
 4    Ba Ria _ Vung Tau Province                                  11.29          -0.40        11.26         -0.05
 5    Vinh Long Province                                          10.73          -0.21        10.95          1.33
      MV (22/35 kV) system improvements, Phase 2a
  6   An Giang Province                                           16.08          -0.52        54.12           1.64
  7   Binh Phuoc Province                                         20.23           0.42        26.85           3.47
  8   Binh Thuan Province                                         28.82           0.14        37.18           2.90
  9   Ninh Thuan Province                                          1.88          -0.19         2.12           0.12
 10   Can Tho City                                                46.12           1.96        33.65           2.42
 11   Long An Province                                            14.65          -0.62        19.76           0.51
 12   Tay Ninh Province                                           22.47          -0.08        20.75           1.24
 13   Tien Giang Province                                         18.65          -0.27        24.03           1.37
      MV (22/35 kV) system improvements, Phase 2b
 14   Bac Lieu Province                                           27.25           0.82        17.21          2.71
 15   Hau Giang Province                                           5.87          -0.06        16.36          2.58
 16   Kien Giang Province                                         78.30           2.62        82.98         25.19
 17   Lam Dong Province                                           11.91          -0.65         6.52          0.31
 18   Soc Trang Province                                          20.08          -0.36        10.78          0.75
 19   Tra Vinh Province                                           18.37           0.46        22.06          4.06
      Additional 110kV Subprojects, Phase 3
 20   110kV Tay Ninh – Chau Thanh Transmission line, Tay
      Ninh Province                                               118.5          2.19         75.09           5.46
 21   110kV Chau Thanh Substation, Tay Ninh Province
 22   110kV Giong Trom – Binh Dai Transmission line, Ben
      Tre Province                                                76.96          -4.60        58.32           5.95
 23   110kV Binh Dai Substation, Ben Tre Province


Component 3 (CPC)
                                                                     Economic                         Financial
 No    Subprojects                                               NPV              EIRR           NPV              FIRR
                                                               (US$ mill)          (%)        (US$ mill)          (%)
  1    Quang Binh rural distribution project                      0.55            15.00          1.20                13.4
  2    Quang Tri rural distribution project                       1.76            17.48          7.34                22.7
  3    Thua Thien Hue rural distribution project                  3.94            22.61         10.53                24.8
  4    Quang Ngai rural distribution project                      0.82            18.80          2.36                21.7
  5    Binh Dinh rural distribution project                       3.79            17.42         30.37                31.4
  6    Phu Yen rural distribution project                         0.30            13.79          1.70                17.8
  7    Duy Xuyen 110kV substation                                28.89            36.95         14.99                20.4
  8    Son Hoa 110kV substation                                   6.59            20.58          0.34                 7.0
  9    Krong Ana 110kV substation                                12.83            29.34          4.35                12.8
 10    Chu Prong 110kV substation and branch line                 9.61            24.08          0.68                 7.4
 11    Chan May 110kV substation                                 29.19            58.08         14.05                28.4
 12    Cu MGar 110kV substation                                  30.73            34.29          4.48                10.7
 13    Tan Mai 110kV substation                                  (0.95)            8.68          4.40              (4.40)
 14    Ea Kar - Krong Pak 110kV substation and branch            43.45            25.71         24.94                15.1




                                                47
          line
  15      Dong Hoi - Ba Don 110kV line                              43.40          43.45         19.23         20.4
  16      Ta Rut 110kV substation and branch line                    2.93          17.87          1.70         17.8


Component 4 (Hai Phong PC)
                                         At Appraisal                          At Completion
        Sub-project
                                 EIRR                 FIRR              EIRR                   FIRR

    Cho Roc – Cat Ba
                                  11%                 4.5%              13%                    18.4%
       110kV line

  Dong Hoa – Long Boi
                                 17.5%                2.8%              21%                    21.3%
      110kV line




Component 5 (Hai Duong PC)
                                       At Appraisal                            At Completion
       Sub-project
                               EIRR                   FIRR             FIRR                    FIRR

All 4 sub-projects             21.9%                  3%               339%                    72%




Component 6 (Dong Nai PC)
                                          Economic                               Financial
          Overall
                                              NPV @ 10% ($                                 NPV @ 10% ($
                              EIRR (%)                                FIRR (%)
                                                million)                                     million)

At appraisal (phase 1)                6.06                   18.6                5.5                    4.99

At appraisal (phase 2)             56.02                   260.23              27.74                  204.06

At completion (all phases)             114                 294.34                 27                   26.73




                                                      48
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
                                                               EASEN-
Phillip Brylski             Country Sector Coordinator
                                                                 HIS
Quang Ngoc Bui              Operations Officer                 EASVS
Isabelle Daverne            Consultant                         AFTEG
Hoi-Chan Nguyen             Consultant                          OPCIL
Lien Thi Bich Nguyen        Program Assistant                  EACVF
Cung Van Pham               Sr Financial Management Specialist EAPFM
Tran Thi Thanh Phuong       Senior Environmental Specialist    EASVS
Kurt F. Schenk              Consultant                         AFTEG
Richard Jeremy Spencer      Country Sector Coordinator         SASDE
Robert P. Taylor            Consultant                         EASCS
Nguyen Chien Thang          Senior Procurement Specialist      EAPPR
Hung Tien Van               Senior Energy Specialist           EASVS
Teresita G. Velilla         Temporary                          FEUUR
Vladislav Vucetic           Lead Energy Specialist             MNSEG
Christophe de Gouvello      Senior Energy Specialist           LCSEG

Supervision/ICR
Franz Gerner                Lead Energy Specialist            EASVS
Hung Tien Van               Senior Energy Specialist          EASVS
Hung Tan Tran               Power Engineer                    EASVS
Aidan Tendai Padraic Gregan Energy Specialist                 EASNS
Defne Gencer                Energy Specialist                 EASWE
Beatriz Arizu de Jablonski Senior Energy Specialist           EASWE
Pedro Antmann               Lead Energy Specialist            AFTG1
Lien Thi Bich Nguyen        Program Assistant                 EACVF
Dung Kim Le                 Team Assistant                    EACVF
Ly Thi Dieu Vu              Environmental Specialist          EASVS
Nghi Quy Nguyen             Social Development Specialist     EASVS
Khang Van Pham              Environmental Specialist          EASVS
Son Van Nguyen              Environmental Specialist          EASVS
Hanh Thi Huu Nguyen         Financial Management Specialist   EASFM
Thao Thi Do                 Finance Analyst                   CTRLN
Nguyen Chien Thang          Senior Procurement Specialist     EAPPR
Mai Thi Phuong Tran         Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM
Daisuke Miura               Energy Specialist                 EASVS
Ky Hong Tran                Senior Energy Specialist          EASVS
Joel Maweni                 Operations Advisor                EASSD
Nghia Cong Le               Driver                            EACVF



                                           49
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                        28.63                     97.63
  FY07                                        14.90                     35.97
  FY08                                        37.09                     95.87
                            Total:            80.62                    229.47
Supervision/ICR
(as of December 23, 2013)
   FY09                                     27.11                       69.49
   FY10                                     32.74                       66.95
   FY11                                     33.76                       83.59
   FY12                                     32.73                      122.00
   FY13                                     22.07                       66.93
   FY14                                      4.46                       19.38
                            Total:         152.87                      428.34




                                         50
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      51
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   52
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

   A. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
NPC:
The PCs, EVN and World Bank coordinated closely during project design and
implementation of the project. The World Bank supported NPC and other PCs and was
very responsive to queries and requests which made a significant contribution to the
successful implementation.
The three PCs (NPC, SPC, CPC), with the help of a grant by AusAid for Technical
Assistant Component, had a chance to improve ability of staff in all fields such as
finance, technical, business.
Management and staff of NPC had a chance of working with international consultants,
acquiring new knowledge and technology applied in the world, visiting and studying
practices in developed countries in Europe, America, and Australia. This has helped
meaningful PCs to improve customer services and engineering practices.
CPC:
Project design:
Initial project design of component 3 - Improvement of rural distribution system in
Central Region with 12 component sub-projects include 6 sub-projects of constructing
power lines and 110 kV substations. The initial design that did not include savings costs
obtained when bidding resulted in fund-surplus comparing to distributed funds. CPC had
timely registered to add and completely performed further 4 sub-projects of construction
of power line and 110 kV substations in accordance with the agreement schedule prior to
June 30, 2013.
Design of component 7- Corporate development of PCs to be equitized was rational and
appropriate to the development and implementation and brought efficiency that reached
at high rate.
Project aim:
The project aim according to the first proposal is basically rational and suitable to actual
requirements. Sub-projects performed by CPC partially reached proposed aim, including:
      Create capacity of providing sufficient quantity and ensured quality at the retail
       level in rural areas;
      Effectiveness of power loss reduction: Sub-projects that put into operation
       contributed have helped bring about efficiency of power loss reduction of whole
       CPC. This has been especially significant in the current period when power loss
       data has approximately approached technical loss as calculated and gradually
       entered the period of saturation.
      Effect in reducing failure, duration of power interruption to customers and scale
       of power interruption when failure happened on a power line or at a substation.
      Effect in improving voltage quality.


                                              53
      Effect for improving transmission capacity, grid anti-overload of current power
       grid thereby expanding scope of electrified area and increasing proportion of
       electrified households
      Helping get access to modern operation and management technology through
       sub-projects investments. Improving capacity, corporately developing CPC into
       modern distribution utility. This is shown through achieved effects at high level in
       following programs:
Project organization:
Since sub-projects are numerous, scattered and distributed over large areas, performed in
many phases, the organization and implementation of project is quite complicated.
Nevertheless, CPC tried its best to reasonably organize and complete all subprojects and
comply with the requirements and commitments to the lending organizations, Law of
Vietnam in order to meet the proposed objectives.
Consulting contractors selected by CPC mainly by form of direct contracting to perform
works such as creating investment projects, surveying, designing, making plan of
compensation and resettlement, environmental management, etc. These bidding packages
are performed by counterpart fund of CPC. In general, all consulting contractors met
qualification requirements to perform these packages; project documents prepared by
subsidiaries substantially satisfied the requirements.
Contractors supplying materials and equipment selected by CPC through form of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the bidding requirements stipulated
and issued by World Bank. These packages used World Bank loans. Steps of bidding
process and bidders selection had been approved by Bank such as: plan of procurement,
bidding documents, bids selection results. Bidding procedure had been organized
rationally, publicly, transparently, followed strictly the requirements of lending
organizations and Law of Vietnam. Bidding results show highly competitiveness,
significant cost savings compared with the approved cost estimate.
Capacity of project implementation units:
      Project owner: CPC is the project owner who has enough experience and strong
       ability to well organize and perform their projects. Thereby, they directly
       performed projects as well assign and direct the project management units to
       successfully organize and proceed with project implementation.
      Project management units: are the subsidiaries under CPC have enough
       experience and ability to perform and manage assigned sub-projects.
Social, environmental factors and the range of WB’s safeguard policies taking part in the
project. WB’s safeguard policies are quite reliable, ensure efficient use of funds and for
the right purpose, especially the regulations on public procurement and contracts in order
to select qualified contractors and create binding obligations for contractors involved in
the project to the bidders to fully perform the contract at the request of the project owner.
The policies in terms of finance and payment are also reasonable, ensuring to provide
timely adequate capital to the project owner paid to bidders, creating favorable conditions




                                             54
to bidders for successful project implementation of bidders and contributing to the overall
success of project
Assessment of Risk:
      There is no significant risk of scope of policy about investment progress as well
       as operation progress after putting the project into operation.
      For any organizational capacity, EVN in general and CPC in particular have
       effective organizational structure, skillful human resource, and ability to adjust
       the structure if necessary to meet the actual request. Therefore, there is no
       remarkable risk in investment progress and operation progress after putting the
       project into operation.
Project implementation:
Before signing the Loan Agreement, CPC has started to register and approve the sub-
project list, survey, prepare plan for compensation and resettlement, environmental
management plan. Thanks to the well-prepared investment procedures, implementation
project schedule has been shortening significantly.
The process of project implementation has some impact factors, solving methods are as
follows:
      Weather was variable; storms, floods frequently occurred in the Central –
       Highlands region, causing many problems for construction and installation. In bad
       weather days and rainy season, it was imperative to stop construction. In case rain
       made roads become muddy, material truck could not go. Then, the project
       management unit required construction unit to supplement labors and applied
       progress accelerating measures in order to cover a part of temporary execution
       period.
      The lay-out of power cut for construction and connection was much difficult,
       especially extended transformers and those having feeder cell. Thus, it needed to
       plan and register the power cut monthly/weekly to take the initiative in
       construction power cut arrangement. Simultaneously, maximum human resource
       was mobilized in power cut days to increase work volume and finish at the
       registered time.
      Difficult financial situation of contractors supplying goods and constructing also
       slowed down the progress of implementation compared to the original plan.
       However, CPC and PMB have provided maximum support regularly so that
       contactors could fulfill the contract.
In the context of the mutual economic difficulties from 2010 to 2012, there were some
construction contractors facing severe difficulties that could not finish the work leading
to contract termination. CPC has reported in time and got approval from the WB to stop
the construction contracts and to extend the other contracts to continue implementation
and hold re-procurement for the package of supplying materials and equipment. In order
to mitigate risks for contractors in process of implementing contracts due to depreciation,
WB agreed and CPC adopted price adjustment form for works contracts.



                                            55
The conduct of compensation and resettlement was difficult, complicated and long-lasted.
Compensation unit price in provinces was low as compared with average price of the
market, interfering significantly in compensation declaration to local residents.
Simultaneously, some problems arose such as people did not accept compensation,
obstructed construction and made long solving time. Therefore, PMB coordinated closely
with local authorities, had government’s support, implemented the compensation
procedures strictly following regulation, established compensation board, arranged staff
for frequent site monitoring, well-done public relations, and persuaded people step by
step. In case problems arose, we discussed with people and the local authorities to find
out the most reasonable solution. As a result, compensation and ground clearance were
basically completed, having enough conditions and construction progress.
The changes of local planning also had impact on project implementation. In some
projects, location for constructing line and substations had been selected, nevertheless,
since the local changed planning, the power sector had to adjust position to be
appropriated, costing execution time.
The equipment and materials supply was not synchronized with construction, affecting
construction schedule. This delay was mainly because time of equipment procurement
bidding was too long (international bidding) and time to manufacture and supply
materials was also long (at least 4-8 months). Besides, it was partly because bidders
supplying goods late comparing with the schedule of requirements. This is a valuable
experience in synchronizing schedule of supplying goods and construction schedule to
hold the proper procurement.
Some construction contractors did not really concentrate and was late in holding the
construction, making the progress be late compared to the contract. PMB also monitored,
supervised and applied effective methods to improve and speed up construction progress.
When designing some sub-projects, it did not foresee all situations so that the design has
been adjusted to comply with actual situation which also affected the process partly. The
course of problem handling was performed promptly and complied with regulation,
meanwhile CPC enhanced examination and appraisal improving designed proposal
quality to restrict later amendment to the lowest level.
SPC:
The project responded to identified objectives of World Bank and the Government’s Plan
period 2008 – 2012 for investment in rural infrastructure of power sector.
In term of technique, the investment project was well prepared. World Bank supported
demand of finance for SPC to strengthen and rehabilitate rural distribution system, to
supply sufficiently power for rural households in southern Vietnam.
Project preparation:
Regulations & policy: Works is complying with Decrees and Circulars of Government,
consisting of arrangement of funds for the project, investigation for engineering,
feasibility study report, definite design and grand total estimated investment cost.
Some subprojects were designed many times because of reasons as follows:



                                           56
      To comply with Decree 81/2009/ND-CP dated October 12th, 2009, the designs of
       the sub-projects in phase 2 had been approved before October 12th, 2009, so all
       designs had been modified to ensure safe high being 14 meters from land to the
       lowest sagging point of conductor for 35kV voltage level. It took more eight
       months for going back to survey and redesigning these sub-projects when
       increasing the height of poles/towers.
      Some sub-projects were designed before Planning of approved provincial traffic,
       so many transmission lines redesigned leading up coincidence of transmission
       lines invested by Government.
      Quantity of transmission lines were improved reducing due to delay in
       implementation of sub-projects and the demand of consumption for local
       residents, power companies invested to improve these transmission lines, so
       consultant had to redesigned some routes.
Project implementation:
Most sub-projects were improvement of transmission lines from one-phase to three-phase
and construction of 22/35kV substations, so they need material/goods at site when
starting sub-project. But, construction works were implemented simultaneously with
goods procurement, so goods delivery schedule was not matched with construction
progress, it caused delay on implementation of sub-projects. Delays of goods
procurement derived from the high inflation in Vietnam during period of 2008-2009
leading up fluctuation of goods prices. Consequently, procurement contracts of sub-
projects had to be terminated and/or re-tendered.
In accordance with planning of provincial traffic, there were changes of transmission line
routes in sub-projects, so consultant had to go back for survey and design again such as
Binh Thuan, Kien Giang, Ba Ria – Vung Tau, Tay Ninh, Long An. For Ben Tre sub-
project, transmission line route crossing residents’ land/gardens with trees of high value,
so it took a lot of time for inventory and resettlement as well as land compensation rates
are unsatisfactory because of the high inflation in Vietnam during period of 2008-2009, it
also cause extension of construction schedule.
Besides, construction work is discontinued in some provinces such as Bac Lieu, Soc
Trang, Kien Giang and Can Tho city due to flooding.
The positive side
The first was cost saving. The cost saving allowed additional four sub-projects in Tay
Ninh and Ben Tre provinces including Chau Thanh 110kV substation with Chau Thanh -
Tay Ninh transmission line, and Binh Dai 110kV substation with Giong Trom – Binh Dai
transmission line respectively.
Reasons of saving costs were as follows:
      There were very strong competitive for works contracts and goods procurement,
       these saved approximately 25.6 percent of construction cost in comparison with
       total value of works contracts at appraisal time, and 22 percent of material and
       equipment cost in comparison with total value of procurement contracts at
       appraisal time.


                                            57
      The 22/35kV transmission line routes were changed after designing due to
       planning of provincial traffic, they went through areas which had some MV
       transmission lines constructed by local governments, so they were rejected from
       initial design of sub-projects.
      For improving transmission lines, quantities of MV dismantled transmission lines
       at site were less than in design, leading up saving manpower and material costs.
       Quantities of dismantled transmission lines reducing, due to delay in
       implementation of Works, they were improved by power companies such as Vinh
       Long, Tien Giang, Bac Lieu, Binh Phuoc, Tay Ninh, Tra Vinh.
The next, to overcome the delay in delivery of goods and construction schedule, goods of
other projects was delivered for these sub-projects. Simultaneously, there were co-
ordination of PCs, SPC/SPPMU and contractors. Contractors arranged many construction
units to work overtime, PCs supported to cut power for connection the transmission line
to the grid, SPC’s supervisors and consultant monitored permanently and managed
strictly constructed schedules as well as solving immediately the difficulties at site to
reducing delays in implementation of sub-projects. Consequently, all sub-projects were
put into operation the end of 2012.
Local Power Companies and Southern Power Project Management Unit (SPPMU) -
under SPC - were the good bridges between Southern Power Corporation and Local
Governments to solve the difficulties during construction of 22/35kV sub-projects. Thank
to Local government’s mobilization, residents allowed using provisionally their land
during construction of transmission line without compensation of their lands. SPC only
paid for clearance in Right of Way (ROW) in some sub-projects including: Binh Duong
and Vinh Long (phase 1), Tay Ninh (phase 2a), Lam Dong and Soc Trang (phase 2b).
Technical Assistance component helped EVN and SPC in particular recognizing current
situations of power sector, having correct approach to improve in areas of power sector
such as finance, technique, procurement bidding, customer service, and planning for
network development.
Troubles:
The positive side was also the negative side that was strong competition for works
contracts and procurement contracts. Due to low bid and inflation during period 2007-
2009, some procurement contracts of sub-projects had to be terminated and/or re-
tendered as mentioned above. It was the reason of delay in schedule of sub-projects.
Technical assistance: Time for learning and exchanging experience is very short, it was
hard for us to go deeply in each area for example how to manage and operate SCADA
system in 110kV substations without operators.
   B. The lessons learned.
NPC:
In subjective assessments, PCs has completed Technical Assistance Component – RD
project with good results in training contents, training objects, meeting time and project
progress, using efficiently the amount of money allocated.



                                           58
The project could finish with the implementation progress of each activity as scheduled,
quick disbursement, efficient use of money allocated; it’s because of following factors:
           a. EVN assign content research, implementation plan to a leading PC. The
              leading PC would coordinate with others PCs.
           b. At the leading PC, the contact point would be assigned to one contact
              department. The specialized department would be in charge of content of
              activities.
           c. The specialized department monitor and provide information to consultant
              in order to focus in required objectives.
           d. Coordination PCs (departments) must be good cooperation.
           e. Closely manage funds to support effective use (conversion rate between
              currencies)
           f. Consultant in capacity improvement implemented WB’s consulting
              activity: it is the first time PCs received a non-refundable grant to support
              the selection of consultancy to improve staff’s capacity. In the early time,
              PCs faced many difficulties and unfamiliarity in implementation, for
              example: preparing Terms of Reference, estimating the cost of
              consultancy, plan procurement, etc. Beside, consulting procedures in
              WB’s projects are different from those of material and equipment
              procurements and constructions; and also there are some differences in
              rules of selecting consultants between WB and Vietnam.
           g. The project implementation structure: One of the reasons that helps
              Technical Assistance Component of RD project at PC run smoothly,
              ensure the process of consulting contracts and projects, disbursements,
              quick settlement is the method of operating project. International Relation
              Department (IRD) is assigned to coordinate the technical assistance
              component in RD project, which has responsibilities in managing,
              monitoring and coordinating implementation of all activities within the
              scope of the technical assistance Component
           h. NPC project implementation structure: One of the reasons that helps
              Technical Assistance Component of RD project at NPC run smoothly,
              ensure the process of consulting contracts and projects, disbursements,
              quick settlement is the method of operating project. International Relation
              Department (IRD) is assigned to coordinate the technical assistance
              component in RD project, which has responsibilities in managing,
              monitoring and coordinating implementation of all activities within the
              scope of the technical assistance Component
CPC:
A lesson learned for the purpose of ensuring the project launch quickly and the allocation
of resources using in each sub-project of CPC. World Bank loan is used for the
procurement and construction of the project implementation phase.



                                            59
The counterpart fund is used for the initial preparation phase where the project launch
was ready to reach at high level.
Flexible project design allowing use of saving costs or fund transfer between sub-projects
is important, although it have to ensure the project management, monitor the
implementation process.
In project implementation, CPC proposed to revise and complement timely, reasonably
the design and the list of sub-projects, transfer fund between the utilities of EVN, extend
time for project implementation, use remaining fund from savings of investments to add
new sub-projects to effectively use loans.
WB reviewed, approved and timely extended a support to the proposals of CPC. The
main reason of WB’s intervention is to be suitable to the situation of practical
implementation according to the reports and rationally explanations, in order to bring
highest efficiency.
SPC:
Works and Procurement Bidding were complied with regulations of World Bank and Viet
Nam, in common with transparence of bidding leading up strong competition and
reducing prices of works and procurement contracts.
The goods procurements should have been implemented promptly when Conceptual
Designs or Definite Designs of Sub-projects are approved to supply sufficiently and
instantaneously goods, equipment and accessories for construction and erection at sites.
It should coordinate closely between Southern Power Project Management Unit
(SPPMU), provincial Power Companies (PCs) and local authorities to propagandize
households’ support for site clearance. For economic assets where transmission line
going through, SPPMU, PCs and local authorities should be co-ordinate to inventory and
pay compensation before starting construction of project.
PCs and SPPMU - under SPC - were the good bridges between Southern Power
Corporation and Local Governments to solve the difficulties during construction of
22/35kV sub-projects. Thank to Local government’s mobilization, residents allowed
using provisionally their land during construction of transmission line without
compensation of their lands. SPC only paid for clearance in Right of Way (ROW) in
some sub-projects such as Binh Duong and Vinh Long (phase 1), Tay Ninh (phase 2a),
Lam Dong and Soc Trang (phase 2b).
There was good co-ordination of divisions of Southern Power Corporation, so the
decisions of redesigning, arisen estimates, etc. were approved timely to avoid more
delays in implementing sub-projects.
To overcome the delays in construction schedule, PCs supported works contractor in
cutting power schedule for connection of grid. Besides, contractors arranged many
construction units to work overtime, strengthening transporting goods, material and
equipment to remote areas, and SPPMU’s supervisors and consultant presented
permanently to solve difficulties at site such as change of transmission line route,
stringing across the streets/roads and rivers.



                                            60
Consultant should investigate carefully areas under planning of provinces before design
to avoid design coincidence with project invested by local authorities.
   C. Findings and recommendations
NPC:
By practical experience, NPC realized that it should be better to have a unit to coordinate
all activities, information and communication among parties as NPC, EVN, WB, other
PCs, and consultants, etc. On behalf of PCs, a unit will supervise all activities of
consultant and Technical assistant component from preparation of TOR to
implementation of contract, disbursement, settlement to ensure progress of contracts and
project (especially, payment procedure for foreign consultant)
Besides, this unit is responsible for supervising allocated loan, used loan and saving loan
to make timely proposal of new activities.
Last but not least, the PCs should strictly control and predict the volume and value of the
contract payment for the project, avoid the excess of costs that leads to additional
approval, adjusted to prolong the implementation and disbursement of project.




                                            61
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable




                                    62
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

All documents filed in IRIS, WBDocs and Project Portal, such as aide memoires, reports, email
correspondences, etc.
World Bank 2011, “The Vietnam Rural Electrification Experience: State and People, Central and
Local, Working Together”, The World Bank & Asia Sustainable and Alternative Energy Program
(ASTAE), The World Bank, Washington DC.
World Bank 2013, “Note on Power Sector and Poor in Vietnam: Using the Vietnam Household
Living Standard Surveys 2010 and 2012”, World Bank, Hanoi.
World Bank, 2007. Implementation Completion and Results Report for Vietnam Transmission,
Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project, December 28, 2007.
World Bank, 2011. Implementation Completion and Results Report for Vietnam Demand-Side
Management and Energy Efficiency Project, March 28, 2011.




                                             63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 35990

                   VIETNAM                                                                      102º                                             104º                                            106º                                             108º                                     110º


RURAL DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHINA

     PROJECT                                                                                                                                                      Hà Giang
                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                      `
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cao Bang                                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                               Lào Cai
                           PROJECT PROVINCES:                                                                       Phong Tho                                                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                      1                      3                               8
                           PHASE 1                                              22º                                                                                                     ` Can
                                                                                                                                                                                        ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                       Bac                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
         12                                                                                                                                                             Tuyên
                                                                                                                                                            7           Quang               Thái        Lang Son
                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
           8               PHASE 2*                                                                                                                        Yên Bái                          Nguyên               10
                                                                                                                         2                                                           13
                                                                                                                     _
         11                PHASES 1 & 2*                                                                              Diên                                        Viêt Trì         12 ˜            14
                                                                                                                      Biên Phu               Son                                   Vinh Yên                  15
                                                                                                                                              ' La                     11                      ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                             Bac` Giang
         *Phase 2 Project Provinces and works are subject to change.                                                                                                                16       ` Ninh
                                                                                                                                                                                            Bac
                                                                                                                                                                                             ˘
                                                                                                                                           6                                              17             Ha Long
                                                                                                                                                                            HÀ_  NÔI
                                             Project Systems:                                                                                                              Hà Dông             20
                                                                                                                                                                                         19 Hai        Hai Phòng
      Provinces                            22/35 kV 110 kV                                                                                                           Hòa Bình         Hung
                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                              22 18 Yên Duong ' ' 21
  1   Lai Châu                                                                                                                                                                  Hà Nam 23        24
  2   _
      Diên Biên                                                                                                                                                                               Nam           Thái Bình
                                                                                                                                                                                           25 _
                                                                                                                                                                                              Dinh26
  3   Lào Cai                                                                                                                                                                      Ninh Bình                                                                                                    20º
                                                                                20º
  4   Hà Giang                                                                                                                                                                   27
  5   Cao Bang `
               ˘                                                                          LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                                         Thanh Hóa
  6   Son' La
  7   Yên Bái                                                                               DEMOCRATIC                                                                                                                                 Gulf
  8   Tuyên Quang                                   •                                                                                                                  28                                                                                                           Hainan I.
  9   Bac
        ˘ Can                                                                                     REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                           (China)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        of
 10   Lang Son   '
                                                                                                                                                                                   Vinh
 11   Phú Tho                                                          •1&2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tonkin
 12     ˜ Phúc
      Vinh                                          •
                                                                                                                                                                                    29
 13   Thái Nguyên                                                                                                                                                                              ˜
                                                                                                                                                                                           Hà Tinh
 14     ˘ Giang
      Bac                                           •                           18º                                                                                                                                                                                                             18º
 15   Quang Ninh                                    •
                                                                                                                                             Me
                                                                                                                                                k
 16   Hà Noi
                                                                                                                                                 on

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    _`
                                                                                                                                                    g

 17     ˘ Ninh
      Bac                                                              •                                                                                                                                            Dông Hói
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                          30
 18   Hà Tây
 19   Hung
         '     Yên
 20   Hai Duong''                                   •                  •                                                                                                                                                           _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dông Hà
 21   Hai Phòng                                                        •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31
 22   Hòa Bình                                                         •
 23   Hà Nam                                        •                                                                                                                                                                                       Hue
 24   Thái Bình                                     •1                 •2                                                                                                                                                                   32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33
 25   Ninh Bình                                                                 16º                 T H A I L A N D                                                                                                                                                 ˜
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dà Nang                         16º

 26   Nam _   Dinh                                  •
 27   Thanh Hóa                                     •                                                                                                                                                                                              34                     `
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tam Ky
 28   Nghe An                                                          •
 29   Hà Tinh˜
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Quang Ngãi
 30   Quang Bình                                                       •                                                                                                                                                                                             35
 31   Quang Tri                                     •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    36
 32   Thùa ' Thiên Huê                              •2                 •1
      _       ˜                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kon Tum
 33   Dà Nang ˘
 34   Quang Nam                                                        •                                                                                                                                                                                                  38
 35   Quang Ngãi                                    •                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14º
                                                                                14º                                                                                                                                                                      Plei ku                Quy Nhon
 36   Kon Tum                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            37
 37   Gia Lai                                                          •
             _
 38   Bình Dinh                                     •
 39   Phú Yên                                       •2                 •1                                                                                                                                                                                                       39
      _
 40     ˘ Lak
      Dak     ˘                                                        •                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tuy Hòa
 41
      _
      Dak
        ˘ Nông                                                                                                                                             C A M B O D I A                                                                               40
 42   Khánh Hòa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Buôn Ma Thuôt

 43   Bình Phuóc                                    •
            _ `
 44   Lâm Dong                                      •                                                                                                                                                                                                                         42
      Ninh Thuan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  41                                    Nha Trang
 45                                                 •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ˜
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gia Nghia
 46   Tây Ninh                                      •                                                                                                                                                                                                       _                                   12º
                                                                                12º                                                                                                                                                                         Dà Lat
 47   Bình Duong                                    •                                                                                                                                                                         43
      _ `                                                                                                                                                                                                                _`                                                   45
 48   Dông Nai                                      •1&2               •   1                                                                                                                                             Dong Xoài                          44
      Bình Thuan                                                                                                                                                                                        46                                                                         Phan Rang-
 49                                                 •
                                                                                                                                                                        M                             Tây Ninh                                                                     Tháp Chàm
 50   Hô` Chí Minh City                                                                                                                                                                                               47               48
                                                                                                                                                                           ekong




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    `                                  49
 51             ˜ Tàu
      Bà Ria – Vung                                 •                                                                                                                                                          Thu Dau                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Môt                                 Phan Thiêt
 52   Long An                                       •                                                                                                                                                                         Biên Hòa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
 53     ` Giang
      Tiên                                          •                                    Gulf                                                                                         54                                  ` Chí Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Hô
      _ `                                                                                                                                                                                                   52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       51
 54   Dông Tháp                                     •                                     of                                                                                56            Cao Lãnh                 Tân An
 55   Bên Tre                                       •                                                                                                                Long Xuyên                       53           My˜ Tho
 56   An Giang                                      •
                                                                                       Thailand                                        Phu
                                                                                                                                                                                       ˜ Long
                                                                                                                                                                                      Vinh                           ' Tre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bên
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vung
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ˜ Tàu
                                                                                                                                      Quoc                                            60                     55
        ˜ Long
      Vinh                                                                                                                                                      Rach Giá            ` Tho        57                                                                                             10º
 57                                                 •                           10º                                                                                                Cân  '
 58   Trà Vinh                                      •                                                                                                                         59            61          Trà Vinh
                                                                                                                                                                                           Vi Thanh    58
 59   Kiên Giang                                    •
 60     ` Tho
      Cân                                           •                                                                                                                                       62 Sóc Trang
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ˘                                                              VIETNAM
              '                                                                    0         50         100          150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                      63
 61   Hâu Giang                                     •
                                                                                                                                                                 Cà Mau                          Bac Liêu
 62   Sóc Trang
            ˘                                       •
 63   Bac Liêu                                      •                              0                   50                    100 Miles                                     64
 64   Cà Mau                                        •
                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
         •1 to be implemented in Phase 1 only.                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
         •2 to be implemented in Phase 2 only.                                 on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                               judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
         •1&2 to be implemented in both Phases.                                acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                    104º                                           106º                                             108º

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MARCH 2008
