 IEG
                                                                                                  Report Number: ICRR14648

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




         1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/27/2015

                  Country: Vietnam
                Project ID: P099211                                                   Appraisal               Actual
            Project Name: Rural Distribution          Project Costs (US$M):                       194.7                204.7
                            Project
     L/C Number:            C4444                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                       150.0                123.4
         Sector Board:      Energy and Mining           Cofinancing (US$M):                         3.0                  3.2

             Cofinanciers: AusAID                       Board Approval Date :                                   05/22/2008
                                                               Closing Date:               06/30/2013           06/30/2013
           Sector(s):       Power (100%)
           Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (100% - P)


Prepared by:                Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Ramachandra Jammi           Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                    Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The Project Development Objective (PDO) as stated in the Financial Agreement dated November 4, 2008 (page 6)
is “to improve the reliability and quality of medium voltage service to targeted retail electricity distribution systems
within rural areas of Vietnam”

 The PDO is stated similarly in the Project Appraisal Document, except that the phrase "within rural areas of Vietnam"
is missing.

The PDO statement in the Financial Agreement is used in this review.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 The project had seven components. The first six were aimed at improving Medium Voltage (MV) service in the
territories of participating regional Power Corporations (PCs). Each of these six components comprised two types of
subprojects involving a combination of new construction, rehabilitation, or strengthening of (i) all of the 22 kiloVolt (kV)
or 35 kV system requiring improvements; or (ii) a single substation or line at the 110 kV level feeding the 22/35 kV
systems. The seventh component supported the corporate development of selected PCs through technical
assistance.

The geographical coverage and costs at appraisal and completion for each of the first six components were as
follows:

1.    Power Company No.1 (PC1):15 provinces in the northern region; (At appraisal: US$51.1 million; At completion:
      US$49.5 million):
2.    PC2:19 provinces in the southern region; (US$31.0 million; US$24.4 million)
3.    PC3:11 provinces in the central region (US$53.0 million; US$83.8 million)
4.   PC Hai Phong: Rural areas and islands surrounding Hai Phong City, in the north of Vietnam; (US$17.2 million;
     US$19.9 million)
5.   PC Hai Duong: Hai Duong Province in the northern region; (US$4.2 million; US$9.2 million)
6.   PC Dong Nai: Dong Nai Province in the southern region; (US$9.5 million; US$14.7 million)

Component 7: Support the corporate development of PCs 1, 2 and 3. This component focused on building capacity of
the PCs so that they could act as independent participants in the power market as it develops according to the
Government's road map for reform. (At appraisal: US$4.5 million; At completion: US$3.2 million):
    Developing PCs' financial management practices for greater autonomy
    Increasing capacity to forecast market development and to undertake commercially-based investment decisions;
    Planning and implementing monitoring systems for performance standards;
    Supporting PCs as they prepare for further reform of the power sector; and
    Preparation of plans for completing the Government’s program of universal electrification

The number of components remained the same throughout the project, but the number of sub-projects under each
component evolved during project implementation.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 The final project cost was about 5 percent higher at US$204.7 million compared to US$195.0 million estimated at
appraisal. Within this cost envelope, extra sub-projects beyond the planned number were executed by taking
advantage of cost savings from competitive tendering for goods and works. This is discussed in section 5 on
efficiency below.

The final Bank contribution was lower at US$123.4 million against a planned US$150.0 million partly because the
amounts set apart for physical and price contingencies did not have to be used.

Borrower contribution was US$81.2 million, about fifty percent higher than the planned amount of 54.2 million.

Despite a delay of four months for the project to become effective, and subsequent delay in implementation of
component 7 (technical assistance) due to broader power sector reforms in the country, the project closed as
scheduled on June 30, 2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of objectives is rated Substantial . This project directly addressed problems identified at appraisal, in the
reliability and quality of power supply to rural areas of Vietnam. These problems we reflected in: a) frequent and long
disruptions to power supplies adversely affecting economic activities and the delivery of services to rural communities;
b) damage to customer’s electrical equipment from voltage excursions; c) low levels of electrical consumption in rural
areas; d) electrical losses being too high, thereby reducing the efficiency of power supplies across the country.
The project was consistent with IDA’s ten-year power sector program with Vietnam, which included four discrete
operations that prioritize and deal with the electricity sector issues while underpinning the Government’s long term
objective of universal access to electricity. This project was the third in a planned series of four operations. The other
three projects were the First Rural Energy Project (Cr. 3358-VN, closed FY07) which focused on increasing the
number of basic connections; Second Rural Energy Project (Cr. 4000-VN, FY05, ongoing) which addresses
rehabilitation of the existing low voltage (LV) systems; and the Distribution Efficiency Project (Cr.5156-VN, effective
FY13) which supports PCs in providing quality and reliable electricity services.
The project objective as stated is appropriate to the development priorities of Vietnam. Vietnam’s Socio-economic
Development Plan (SEDP) for 2011-2015 and its Socio-economic Development Strategy (SEDS) 2011-2020 both
emphasize needed “breakthroughs” in relation to new infrastructure including the electricity sector, to support
Vietnam’s economic growth and development,. The Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY2007-11 and
FY2012-16 were aligned with both the SEDP and SEDS.
However, the PDO statement ignores the objective of corporate development of the PCs which is clearly the purpose
of the multiple activities comprising component 7.


b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of design is rated Modest .
The project components appropriately addressed issues of strategic importance of Vietnam’s electrification and
market reform process through: i) improving the reliability, efficiency and quality of rural electricity supplies; and ii)
commercialization of PCs as they become increasingly independent of EVN and were operating in a wholesale power
market and under a new regulatory framework. From a technical, financial and economic perspective, the investment
subprojects were sound — targeting the greatest weaknesses in the rural power distribution network.

However, the results framework was incomplete in not tracing the capacity building and technical assistance elements
of the project to their logical outcomes. As a result, the M&E framework consisted exclusively of technical
performance indicators. There were no indicators, for instance, to measure the outcomes of developing PCs'
financial management practices for greater autonomy. The ICR says that this omission was “most likely because it [
i.e. component 7] was a small share of the overall project costs and was of secondary consideration to the capital
investments in terms of immediate impacts on rural electricity supplies.”

However, IEG’s assessment is that this is a significant shortcoming in the results framework, which is underlined by
the ICR’s own discussion under ‘Rationale for Bank’s assistance” which lays out the importance of the institutional
objectives served by the capacity building and technical activities under the project.

Also, as noted in the ICR, the project could have improved its monitoring and evaluation arrangements around the
poverty, gender and social development aspects of the project.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Objective: To improve the reliability and quality of medium voltage service to targeted retail electricity distribution
systems within rural areas of Vietnam. Rating: Substantial.

Outputs

The reliability and quality outcomes were underpinned by the achievement of the targets for rehabilitating or building
new distribution network substations during the course of the project. In four of the five PCs, targets were exceeded.

Indicator 1: Targeted length of distribution lines either rehabilitated or newly built, across all project areas was
achieved. PC1 achieved more than twice its target, and PC2 2.5 times its target. These new lines were constructed
to better quality than many of the lines they replaced, providing higher reliability and safety of power supply.
PC1 (Target: 472.7; Achieved: 989.1); PC2 (617.4; 1,571.4); PC3 (387.3; 451.1); PC Hai Phong (74.4; 75); PC Hai
Duong (29.99; 35.5); PC Dong Nai (124; 141.5)

Indicator 2: Distribution substations rehabilitated or newly constructed (KVA), under projects: PC1, PC2, PC3, PC Hai
Phong, PC Hai Duong, PC Dong Nai
PC1 (Target: 139,511; Achieved: 367,790); PC2 (17,888; 105,530); PC3 (39,875; 64,970); PC Hai Phong (0;0); PC
Hai Duong (10,440; 10,500); PC Dong Nai (7,920; 72,410)

The technical assistance activities supported capacity building in core areas needed for PCs to operate as
commercialized and market-ready entities. About 500 senior and middle management staff of EVN and PCs were
provided with a variety of training, to help them better and more efficiently run the distribution business. Several
important technical reports were produced: e.g. “Load Forecasting methods and their application”; “Improving
efficiency through Demand Side Management”; “Smart Grid Technology”; “Network load flow modeling”; and
“Connecting wind farms to the grid” that created knowledge and capacity in key technical areas for running an efficient
distribution business.

Outcomes

The outcomes in respect of reliability and quality of MV service to targeted retail electricity systems were as follows:.

Indicator 1: Targets for reduction in interruptions in MV service at MV/LV transformers, in the project areas net of
interruptions caused by failure of upstream transmission system or power shortage were exceeded by a wide margin
in PC1, PC2 and PC3, and were ether exceeded or fully met in the remaining PCs.

PC1 (Target in Number/Duration in hours: 250/490 Achieved: 194/ 410);
PC2 (1,283/3,957; 328/334); PC3 (50/20; 6.2/7.4); PC Hai Phong (0/0; 0/0); PC Hai Duong (250/60; 245/55); PC Dong
Nai (38/14; 36/12.5)

Indicator 2: The targeted reductions in MV system losses were met in all areas and exceeded in five of them.

PC1 (Target: 6.0%; Actual: 5.9%); PC2 (4.11%; 3.0%); PC3 (5.24%; 4.76%); PC Hai Phong (5.0%; 5.0%); PC Hai
Duong (5.6%; 5.45%); PC Dong Nai (4.7%; 4.34%)

Indicator 3: The quality of power supplied to all the six project areas improved dramatically through reductions in
Voltage excursions (deviations form equilibrium voltages) outside 200-240 Volts at MV/LV transformer, in the project
areas (number/duration in hours) :

PC1(Target: 30/240; Achieved: 30/ 230); PC2 (381/655; 0/0); PC3 (70/20; 65/18); PC Hai Phong (50/10; 50/10); PC
Hai Duong (80/15; 80/15); PC Dong Nai (38/1.9; 0/09)

Indicator 4: Total electricity consumption in the project’s rural areas exceeded targets in all six distribution networks,
especially in rural parts of PC2 (CPC) at 27.7GWh which was 3.4 times higher than the 8.1GWh target.

PC1( Target:2.4 GWh; Achieved: 3.3 GWh); PC2 (8.1; 27.7); PC3 (464; 466); PC Hai Phong (360; 360); PC Hai
Duong (550; 570): 550x10^6; PC Dong Nai ( 345; 543)

Indicator 5: Percentage of MV lines overloaded in the project areas:100% achieved, with actual reductions in
overloaded MV lines in project areas either meeting or exceeding original targets. These reductions in line
overloading contribute to improved reliability of supplies and improved electrical safety.

PC1( Target:10%; Achieved: 9.5%); PC2 (10%; 0%); PC3 (0%; 0%); PC Hai Phong (0%; 0%); PC Hai Duong (5.0%;
4.5%): 550x10^6; PC Dong Nai (1%; 0%)

Indicator 6:     Percentage of MV transformers overloaded in the project areas: 100% of the targeted reductions in
overloading of MV transformers were achieved.

PC1( Target:12%; Achieved: 10%); PC2 (10%; 0%); PC3 (0%; 0%); PC Hai Phong (0%; 0%); PC Hai Duong (5.0%;
4.0%): 550x10^6; PC Dong Nai (0.45%; 0%)

Capacity-building: The ICR notes that the activities in Component 7 contributed to institutional change and improved
management capacity in Vietnam’s electricity sector, and strengthened the capabilities of EVN and the PCs in several
critical business areas, including: load forecasting and power system planning; financial management; customer
service; and project management.

However, there is no clear basis for this assessment, with no intermediate outcome/outcome indicators provided in
the M&E framework for capacity-building outcomes. There is also no linkage drawn with the developing financial
management practices for greater autonomy, which is one of the purposes listed under the component for technical
assistance/capacity-building (section 2d).

 5. Efficiency:
  Rating: Substantial.
An ex-post economic analysis was undertaken of the investment subprojects of each PC. The input costs relate to the
construction costs incurred and estimated lifecycle O&M costs. The benefits derived from the opportunity costs of
unserved energy that would otherwise result if the investments did not occur and power interruptions in rural areas
continued or worsened over time. Two scenarios were used in the economic analysis: (i) the 'with' project scenario
which includes the investment in the rural networks from the project; and (ii) the 'without' project scenario which
assumes that there is no investment for the rehabilitation and expansion of the MV networks, and consequently the
power quality and reliability situation of the existing distribution system would further deteriorate. Appropriate
assumptions for quantifying the costs and benefits are detailed in annex 3 of the ICR.

Two years into the project, most of the contracts planned in the appraisal stage had been signed and yielded residual
funds through savings from strong competition in the tendering of goods and works. The PCs used the residual funds
for new sub-projects, which were subsequently prepared, appraised and approved. However, these savings were
partly offset by the appreciation of the US$ against the SDR between April 2008 and March 2009, which resulted in a
reduction in total SDR91.1 million in IDA funds expressed in US$ from US$150 million to about US$139 million.

There was an initial delay of four months for the project to become effective, and subsequent delay in implementation
of component 7 (technical assistance) due to broader power sector reforms in the country,

Overall, the results indicate that the investments were economically viable for most components, though the spread of
ERRs was wide, ranging from as low as 1% in a few cases (Component 3/Central PC area), but mostly from the low
double digits to as high as 58%. in the other five areas. Similarly, the FRRs were low for Component 2 (<1% in most
cases) and below 6% for component 3, while the values ranged mostly above 10% and as high as 72% for other
components.
 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of the project objective is rated substantial, while that of project design is rated modest, due to the
lack of attention to the outcomes from the capacity-building and technical assistance component of the project. The
efficacy of the project development objective is rated substantial for achieving practically all of its outcome targets,
and exceeding them in some cases, thought the outcomes were not clear in respect of the technical assistance
components. Efficiency is rated substantial based on favorable but a wide range of economic rates of return. Overall
development outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The sustainability of benefits arising from the project will be contingent on the power infrastructure in the project
areas continuing to be capable of reliably meeting increased electrical loads over time. The financing of new
investments across Vietnam’s power sector will require ongoing large annual investments, and the challenges of this
are well understood.

The ongoing structural reforms to Vietnam’s power sector require the PCs to commercialize and adapt their
operations toward operations in a market based environment. Component 7 of the project supported the development
of capacity of the PCs to make this transition over time, but the outcomes from this effort are not clear as discussed in
section 4.

During the project’s implementation, the government took several positive strategic and policy steps as follows:
  Electricity tariff reform was introduced in 2009 establishing a market mechanism for the annual update of
    electricity tariffs;
  Reform of the distribution sector in 2010, with the establishment of 5 Power Corporations (PCs) created by
    consolidating the existing Power Companies, to create sufficient scale to upgrade and improve the efficiency of
    their distribution network services.
  The National Transmission Company (NPT) was created as a subsidiary of EVN, concentrating on the
    investment, operation and maintenance of the national high voltage transmission grid.
  The consolidation of the 5 PCs paved the way for establishing the Vietnam Competitive Generation Market
    (VCGM) which commenced full operation in July 2012 with participation of 48 direct trading generators with total
    capacity of 11,630 MW, which corresponds to approximately 35% of the total national system capacity. VCGM
    spot market provides generation price signals that both reflect daily supply and demand balance and impacts of
    seasonal change of hydropower resources.
  In 2012, the government transferred the ownership and operations of all EVN power plants (except for strategic
    multi-purpose hydropower plants) to three generation companies (Gencos) of sufficient scale and diversification
    of generation technologies to participate in the VCGM and to develop generation projects, with provisions to
    maintain a competitive market.

The ongoing engagement of the Bank in Vietnam’s power sector has a range of strategic follow up operations to this
project, including: a) Energy DPO3, which supports the ongoing reforms to the power sector; b) Distribution Efficiency
Project, which includes a pilot demand side management project in HCMC PC’s network; c) Trung Song hydropower
project; and d) dialogue on options to finance generation capacity expansion.

Taken together, all the above development point to a moderate risk for development outcomes.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate
8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The shortcomings in reflecting evidence and outcomes from the capacity-building and technical assistance
component of the project are noted in the sections of project objectives and design in section 3 above.

Project preparation involved effective consultations and strong commitments from the large number of parties
involved in implementation; including PCs, their Provincial Supply Departments (PSDs, for PCs 1, 2 and 3) and
the LDUs. The implementation arrangements were appropriate, given the combination of centralized and
decentralized institutional and governance structures in Vietnam. The project’s design was flexible, ready for
rapid-start up and could be implemented on a decentralized basis.

The project incorporated a rapid start-up and by the time of project negotiations, 25 of the 54 sub-projects
identified for implementation (by value $123 million out of $202 million in total) had obtained approval for their
feasibility studies and about 50 per cent of approved subprojects had detailed designs and procurement
documents approved. The cost allocation across investment components was designed to be flexible, so that
during implementation any subproject could be added or substituted, provided that the changes proposed were
consistent with the project objective. This flexibility was used soon after the project became effective and extra
subprojects were added by PCs.

At appraisal, the key risks to the Development Objective were identified as being related to: (i) market restrictions
having a negative impact on power system planning; (ii) weak financial capacity of the PIUs; (iii) energy shortages
or surpluses due to demand and supply forecasting errors; (iv) fraud or corruption resulting in cost overruns or
poor quality outputs or subprojects. The key risks to Implementation Progress identified during appraisal were: (i)
implementation and disbursements starting slowly; and (ii) fiduciary compliance issues. The impact of these risks
was low overall, and can be attributed to a combination of mitigating actions built into the technical assistance
components, support from Bank staff, and borrow commitment.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank team was pro-active in its supervision and implementation support to help identify and address the
issues emerged. Supervision missions, and the March 2011 Mid-Term Review, highlighted a number of issues for
management attention.

The Bank team managed to rapidly review and clear a large number of goods and works procurement packages in
the first 12 months of the project to enable rapid start-up and disbursements after the projects delayed
effectiveness. The banking credit crunch in Vietnam during 2011 to 2013 resulted in a number of works
contractors having severe difficulties in accessing lines of credit to finance construction works ahead of submitting
claims for payment once construction milestones were met. In some cases the credit squeeze led to significant
delays in the implementation of subprojects and re-tendering, because the original contractors could not finance
construction works. The Bank responded to client requests in a timely manner and provided suitable advice on
how to adapt to changes and address challenges that arose over time. Proactive engagement with implementing
agencies helped to reinforce safeguards, procurement and fiduciary controls, in particular with PCs who were
relatively inexperienced in implementing Bank assisted projects.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The government demonstrated strong commitment to broader energy reform and commercialization aspects of the
project. The government has implemented key aspects of the Power Reform Roadmap, including establishing the
PCs, implementing adjustments to electricity tariffs so that they recover a greater share of service costs and
contribute to sustainable operations and investments in the power sector, and establishing the VCCM in 2012.
The ICR notes also notes strong government commitment to the project investment components, which
contributed to the timely completion of the project. Through the course of the project a stronger and more effective
dialogue developed between the implementing agencies and the various levels of government (central, provincial,
district, commune and village). This dialogue contributed to the resolution of a number of long-standing land
acquisition issues that had delayed the construction and commissioning of a range of subprojects.

There were some significant delays in disbursements from the poor collaboration between the implementing
agencies and the expenditure verification agencies (both VDB and State Treasury). These issues were only
resolved late in the life of the project.

   Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The implementing agencies were the national power utility, Electricity of Viet Nam (EVN), and the six power
corporations: Northern Power Corporation (NPC, formerly PC1), Southern Power Corporation (SPC, formerly
PC2), Central Power Corporation (CPC, formerly PC3), Hai Phong Power Company (HPPC), Hai Duong Power
Company (HDPC), Dong Nai Power Company (DNPC).

Four of the six PCs had previous experience in implementing a variety of IDA financed projects — including Rural
Electrification 2 (implemented by PC1, PC2 and PC3), System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and
Renewables (SEIER) Project (PC1, PC2, PC3, DNPC), Transmission and Distribution 2 Project (PC3) — and were
familiar with Bank procedures. The other two implementing agencies (HDPC and HPPC) had not implemented
Bank assisted projects before, and had to acquire an understanding of the fiduciary requirements, processes and
procedures of the Bank – both ahead of and during implementation.

The PCs had to deal with several issues during implementation: NPC (PC1) faced varying quality in the technical
designs of its subprojects; SPC (PC2) had to deal with delays in land acquisition, especially around Ben Tre
province; CPC (PC3) was affected by the long time taken for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) processes,
financial difficulties faced by works contractors hit hard by the credit crunch in Vietnam during 2011-2013, and
delays in clearances for land acquisition and compensation; Hai Phong PC experienced long delays in goods
procurements that led to large delays in commissioning, in particular the 110kV line to Cat-Ba; HDPC’s MV rural
network initially faced difficulties from changes in the alignment of the Hanoi to Hai Phong highway, and due to
other construction difficulties; Dong Nai PC faced issues relating to procurement, project and contract
management, land acquisition/resettlement, and works contractors being hard hit by the credit squeeze.

The ICR (page 23) reports that while the performance of implementation agencies was mixed, in nearly all cases,
the PCs were able to overcome implementation difficulties and deliver all their appraised investment subprojects
by the project closing date. The ICR also reports that all PCs were able to cement a range of institutional gains
arising from the technical assistance component of the project (component 7). The institutional gains include:
improved understanding of financial management structure and practices for commercialized entities; stronger
load forecasting and power system planning capability; technical skills improvements in economic and financial
evaluation, and engineering; and in key aspects of management and strategy. However, there were no outcome
indicators that were linked clearly to the reported institutional improvements.

There were deficiencies in the overall accounting function and the control framework suggesting that the
accounting and financial reporting supervision by both PCs and EVN management was weak in some respects
(see section 11b)

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The six key performance indicators (KPIs) provided readily quantifiable measures of the physical PDO outcomes;
specifically improvements in the quality of service, reliability of supply, efficiency of supply, and changes in the
average consumption of electricity in the rural areas targeted by the project. The KPIs for intermediate outcomes
were also straightforward and useful: i) Length of distribution lines rehabilitated or newly constructed (km) under the
project; ii) Capacity of distribution substation rehabilitated or newly constructed (kVA) under the project.
The provincial companies were responsible for the collecting data. Baseline data was provided for all indicators
where applicable.

However, there are no indicators to cover the outcomes from technical assistance/capacity building framework
activities under component 7.

b. M&E Implementation:
  The design, collection and utilization of the M&E data was carried out effectively by the PCs throughout the project.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The M&E data served a useful means of tracking progress of the investments financed by the project.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was placed in category “B’ under the Bank’s environmental and social safeguards framework, and
triggered three policies: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01); Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12); and Indigenous
Peoples (OP 4.20) (which in Vietnam are referred to as Ethnic Minorities). The ICR (page 11) reports that overall
compliance with both environmental and social safeguard policies triggered by the project was satisfactory.

The required assessments/implementation plans were prepared: (i) a Social Assessment; (ii) a Policy Framework for
Resettlement Plans (PFRP); (iii) a Strategy for Ethnic Minorities (SEM); and (iv) separate Resettlement Plans (RP),
Ethnic Minority Development Plans (EMDP), and Environmental Assessments and Environmental Management Plans
(EA/EMPs) for each of the sub-projects, which, being stand-alone, required a separate review of these issues. Local
community consultations on the EMDPs were conducted to ensure that the public was fully informed of the planned
investment projects, their impacts, and safeguards arrangements. Independent monitoring consultants were also
mobilized to oversee the execution of the social safeguard instruments.

Many of the sub-projects related to upgrading systems based on an existing right of way (ROW), and therefore, land
acquisition was modest, and resulted in modest community-wide socioeconomic impacts. The project was assessed
as not causing culturally specific impacts on ethnic minority communities. Given that most sub-projects brought direct
benefits to affected communities, local people, including ethnic minorities, were generally supportive of their
implementation.

However, there were significant challenges in the process of land acquisition in respect of (i) finalization of
compensation for impacts in ROW; (ii) disagreements by affected households with proposed compensation rates; and
(iii) coordination with relevant agencies to finalize the administrative procedures around consultations and
compensation. These issues were resolved through: (i) a strengthened working relationship between implementing
PCs and local authorities; and (ii) ensuring a smooth transition from approved safeguard documents (prepared by
PCs) into actual implementation (performed by local authorities). In addition, independent monitoring reports were
used as tools to track and improve the implementation of safeguard activities.

The environmental impacts included dust, noise pollution, soil erosion, traffic disturbance, and road damage; which
were minor and could be mitigated effectively.

An Environmental Monitoring System (EMS) was put in place and operated effectively using a cooperative
mechanism between contractors, project implementation units, local authorities, and local communities. Community
supervision proved to be a very effective means of ensuring community ownership, minimizing disputes, and having
rapid and ongoing compliance with environmental management plans. Community supervision especially worked well
for 22/35 kV system sub-projects (i.e. the distribution lines closer to the beneficiaries).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

The overall procurement performance of the project was satisfactory. The large and diverse range of subprojects
required a mix of ICB (international competitive bidding) contracting for goods and NCB (national competitive bidding)
contracting for works, and these were generally well executed by the PIUs using the Bank’s procedures. Difficulties
sometimes arose when: (i) the provision of goods was not well coordinated with the works schedules; (ii) contractors
encountered financial liquidity issues arising from the credit crunch and works were delayed; and (iii) works had to be
re-tendered following prolonged difficulties in contractors meeting their obligations, in particular those faced with
liquidity issues. During the project period no cases of fraud or corruption were detected.

To provide for understaffing, and insufficient experience with procurement procedures, all relevant staff were provided
training, and procurement consultants were hired by PC Hai Phong, PC Hai Duong and PC Dong Nai; and support
was provided by Bank specialists. No instances of misprocurement were reported.

Financial management performance ranged between Moderately Satisfactory and Satisfactory throughout the Project
period. The ICR (page 14) notes that financial management aspects were generally in compliance with Bank
procedures and financial reports (both Interim Financial Reports or IFRs and annual audited financial statements)
were generally submitted in a timely manner.

However, there were deficiencies in the following respects indicating that the performance of the overall accounting
function and the control framework has been below expectation, and suggesting that the accounting and financial
reporting supervision by both PCs and EVN management has been weak or lacking in the following respects.: (i)
inadequate accounting and financial reporting for the trust funds; (ii) lack of review of audit reports and audited
financial statements before their submission to the Bank; and (iii) qualified entity audit reports. Other issues related to
(i) quality of financial reporting oversight; (ii) accounting, financial reporting and expenditure verification on trust fund
expenditures (TF094257); (iii) timely payment processing; and (iv) use of materials and equipment financed by the
Project.

Some significant delays to disbursements arose from the poor collaboration between the implementing agencies and
the expenditure verification agencies (both the Vietnam Development Bank and the State Treasury). These issues
were only resolved late in the life of the project. Diversions of project materials and equipment to non-project activities
and/or sites have been an ongoing problem with EVN and its subsidiaries, mainly due to the constraints to resolve
emergency power outages.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                                ICR                  IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                         Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately             Lack of evidence relating to the
                                                            Satisfactory           outcomes from the capacity-building
                                                                                   and technical assistance component of
                                                                                   the project.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately             Failure to reflect the outcomes from
                                                            Satisfactory           capacity-building and technical
                                                                                   assistance in the results framework and
                                                                                   M&E.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.
13. Lessons:
  In projects involving multiple implementing agencies early coordination and consultations between them and
relevant authorities is of prime importance. In this project, the performance of implementing agencies was
impacted to varying extents depending on the timing and coverage of engagement with all levels of government to
resolve land acquisition and clearances in the rural areas of Vietnam.

Community supervision of environmental safeguards can be a highly effective means of ensuring community
ownership, minimizing disputes, and having rapid and ongoing compliance with environmental management plans.
In this project, community supervision worked well with 22/35 kV system sub-projects where the distribution
network is closer to the users.

Flexibility in design and application of funds is essential when a project has a large number of sub-components that
have to be implemented in challenging circumstances. This project gained from allowing flexibility for changes in
design and gaining approvals, in order to allow for adaptation to unexpected changes in circumstances such as
changes in costs, delays in procurement and implementation, and difficulties in land acquisition.

Lack of provision for internal audit in implementing agencies can impact their overall accounting function and
control framework. In this project, there were clear indications that the quality of financial reports and statements
was below expectations, in the absence of arrangements for internal audit.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is clearly written and makes a largely objective assessment of the project experience. The annexes are used
appropriately to add explanatory detail. The economic and financial analysis is particularly well done with the
assumptions laid out clearly. Appropriate lessons are drawn from the experience of preparing and implementing the
project.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
