Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT              
29275
 
Madagascar Poverty Reduction Support Credit 1 
 
Project Name 
 
Madagascar-Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 1) 
Region 
  Africa 
Sector   
 
Public Sector Management; Education; Nutrition 
Project ID 
 
P070999 
Borrower(s)  
Madagascar 
Implementing Agency 
Vice Primature (VPM) 
Contact: Mr. Boun Baylatry, Director Général, Direction Générale de la Planification des Investissements 
et de la Coordination del Politique des Agences, BP 295, Anosy, Antananarivo 101, Madagascar 
 
Environment Category   
Structural Adjustment Credit 
Date PID Prepared 
 
May 6, 2004 
Projected Appraisal Date 
June 9, 2004 
Projected Board Date 
 
July 20, 2004 
 
Background 
 
Madagascar is currently undergoing an exciting new beginning and is making good progress in 
implementing its poverty reduction strategy.  Having emerged from a deep political and economic crisis 
in 2002 which propelled extreme poverty to levels observed a decade ago, the newly elected Government 
of President Ravalomanana is embarking on many courageous reforms which are unique for Madagascar 
since independence in 1960.  Already, far reaching reforms to improve governance, increase 
liberalization, develop the environment for private sector development and improve the quality of social 
services have been taken.   Growth rebounded after the crisis to 9.6 percent in 2003.  But, Madagascar 
remains a poor country with a per capita income of $230, and low social indicators.  The net enrolment 
rates was 70 percent in 2002, and the primary school completion rate was around 38 percent.  Likewise, 
infant mortality and maternal mortality are high, as are malnutrition rates.  Based on a national poverty 
line, seven in ten people were poor in 2001, and the crisis pushed even more people into poverty.  Poverty 
is primarily rural, with almost eight in ten poor in 2001, in contrast to urban areas where 44 percent of the 
population were poor.     
 
The new Government formulated an updated poverty reduction strategy in 2003. Implementation of the 
PRSP is proceeding well. The PRSP is underpinned by three strategic axes, (i) improving governance; (ii) 
promoting broad based growth; and (iii) providing human and material security with across-cutting pillar 
for monitoring and evaluation.  The PRSP and Joint Staff Assessment (JSA) of the strategy were 
presented and endorsed by the Boards of the Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) in November 
2003.  The overall objective of the PRSP is rapid and sustainable growth to reduce poverty in half by ten 
years
 
to 34.2 percent in 2013. 
 
The World Bank prepared its new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY04-06, which was discussed 
concurrently with the PRSP/JSA.  The CAS presents the rationale for policy based lending through 
PRSCs.  The PRSCs provide a useful vehicle to support systemic policy and institutional reforms and 
systems that are key constraints to achieving development impact in Madagascar.  The CAS proposes 
PRSCs which are preceded by analytical work and supported through complementary technical assistance 
Page  2
to facilitate implementation of the policy reform agenda.  Starting with FY05, the CAS proposes two 
operations in the base and high cases, one PRSC and one investment operation.     
 
Project Objectives 
 
1. 
A series of three single tranche Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), that will be provided in 
the form of budget support, is envisaged to support implementation of the PRSP.  PRSC 1 will support 
the strategic axes of good governance (public expenditure management and anti-corruption), and 
promoting human development through improved service delivery in education and nutrition. In addition, 
strengthening monitoring and evaluation will lead to an enhanced accountability and results focus.  PRSC 
2
would continue to support the strategic axes of governance and human and material security, and will 
expand focus on health, rural water supply and social protection, as well as the strategic axis of broad-
based growth. In addition PRSC 2 will consolidate reforms begun under PRSC 1, and also support the 
G
overnment’s implementation of decentralization.  PRSC 3 will consolidate the reforms started under the 
first two PRSCs, and support the institutional and regulatory reforms needed for broad based growth to 
support strategic axes 2 of the PRSP.   
 
Project Description 
 
PRSC 1 supports Axis 1 of the PRSC on governance, which includes assistance to the Government in 
implementing its 2004 Priority Action Plan for public expenditure management reforms. This includes the 
preparation and submission to Parliament of the public finance framework law; improved alignment of 
the 2004 budget to the priorities of the PRSP, the reform of the Treasury, simplification of expenditure 
management process, the development and submission to Parliament of a new Procurement Code, and 
strengthening internal controls through the establishment of a General Inspectorate for Finances.  PRSC 1 
also supports the Government’s anti-corruption agenda, including establishment of an operational Anti-
Corruption Commission and the development of a national anti-corruption strategy.     
 
PRSC 1 also supports Axis 3 on providing human and material security, by supporting the development 
and implementation of the Government’s Education for All Agenda and service delivery in nutrition.  Key 
policy reforms have included an increase in the education budget by about 38% for the fiscal year 2004, 
measures to decrease education costs for poor households starting with the school year 2002/2003 
(suppression of school fees, provision of learning materials to all primary students), actions to increase 
access for poor students (through school construction,  salary compensation for teachers paid by parents, 
teacher recruitment) and reinforcement of management capacity at central and decentralized levels.  
PRSC 1 is supporting policy and institutional reform in the nutrition sector, especially through the 
development.  The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (2003) and the Country Procurement 
Assessment Report (CPAR, 2003), and the draft Public Expenditure Review (PER) provide the analytical 
underpinnings for the public sector reform agenda supported by this PRSC, and background work for the 
Education for All  underpins reforms in this area.  A supporting Technical Assistance Credit (Good 
Governance and Institutional Development) approved in November 2003 will assist the government in 
putting in place the systems to strengthen budget management, and finance technical assistance and 
capacity building needs.   
 
Project Financing 
 
The proposed credit amount would be a US$ xx million equivalent.  The credit would be disbursed in one 
tranche at effectiveness subject to the fulfillment of the prior actions conditions listed in the Policy 
Matrix.  A grant of US$ xx million will also be made available on effectiveness of the PRSC. 
 
Page  3
Project Implementation 
 
The office of the Vice Prime Minister, who is in-charge of economic programs, will be responsible will 
be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the program. 
 
Sustainability 
The sustainability of the results of the PRSC 1 are likely since there is a broad degree of consensus and 
commitment on the importance and directions of these reforms for the implementation of the poverty 
reduction strategy.   The pace of progress, however, could be affected by external shocks (such as natural 
disasters), and capacity constraints. 
 
Environmental aspects 
 
In accordance with Bank guidelines, the proposed operation has been deemed a structural adjustment 
credit and will require an environmental assessment. 
 
Poverty Category 
 
The PRSC supports the implementation of Madagascar’s poverty reduction strategy as summarized in the 
Government’s PRSP. 
 
Contact Points: 
 
The Infoshop 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818 H Street 
 
Washington D.C.  20433 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
 Fax: 
(202) 
522-1500 
 
Contact: Mr. Boun Baylatry, Director Général, Direction Générale de la Planification des 
Investissements et de la Coordination del Politique des Agences, Vice Primature, BP 295, Anosy, 
Antananarivo 101, Madagascar 
 
Note
:
This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included in 
the final project. 
 
Processed by the InfoShop week ending _______.  
 
wb20242 
Q:\My Documents\Madagascar-PRSC\Identification Mission\PID Madagascar PRSC 1.doc 
June 2, 2004 10:22 AM
 
