                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                       Report No. 34722




          SIMPLIFIED IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                MADAGASCAR


            FIRST POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT OPERATION


                    IDA CREDIT 3960 MAG/GRANT H116 MAG


                               DECEMBER 30, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 1
AFTP1
Africa Region

                            Simplified Implementation Completion Report
                    For Programmatic Development Policy Lending Operations

Team Leader: Javier Suarez                     TL Unit: AFTP1
                                               Report Date: June 23, 2004


1. Program Data

                Name: First Poverty Reduction Support Operation            L/C Number:   IDA
  Country/Department: Republic of Madagascar/AFTP1                               Region: Africa

      Sector/subsector: Gen Pub admin (43%), Gen education (28%), Gen agr/fish/for
                        (13%), Health (8%), Gen ind/trade (8%)
               Theme: Public expenditure, financial management (P), Education for all
                        (P), Health system performance (S), Rural services and
                        infrastructure (S), Environmental policies and Institutions (S)


KEY DATES
                                                                      Original            Revised/Actual
   PCD/PD:     05/17/2004                                Effective:   08/12/2004          08/12/2004
   Appraisal:  06/14/2004                                    MTR:
   Approval:   07/20/2004                                 Closing:    06/30/2005          06/30/2005



   Borrower/Implementing Agency:     Republic of Madagascar
                  Other Partners:    none



STAFF                      Current                           At Appraisal
Vice President:            Gobind Nankani                    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:          James Bond                        Hafez Ghanem
Sector Manager:            Emmanuel Akpa                     Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader at ICR:        Benu Bidani                       Benu Bidani
ICR Primary Author:        Javier Suarez

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, MS=Moderately Satisfactory, MU=Moderately Unsatisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory,
HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial,
M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                          Outcome: MS
                                      Sustainability: L
              Institutional Development Impact: S
                               Bank Performance: S
                          Borrower Performance: MS



                                                     QAG (if available)             ICR
                                 Quality at Entry:
                 Operation at Risk at Any Time:                                     No


3. Program Description

1.      A series of three Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), provided in the form of budget
support, was designed in 2004 to support the implementation of Madagascar's Poverty Reduction
Strategy (PRS) over the period 2004 to 2006. The program focused explicitly on the pillars of
governance and human development of the PRS, and did not include specific policy actions on broad-
based growth pillar. The overreaching objectives of the PRSC program were to consolidate reforms
underway in the public sector, combat corruption, improve transparency and improve service delivery
in education, health, water supply and nutrition. These reforms were aimed at strengthening public
sector's capacity to carry out its role more effectively, enhancing Government's accountability and
results focus, and reach poverty reduction goals.

2.      The first operation of the series (PRSC 1), approved in July 2004 for a total amount of
SDR85.5 million (25.3 million credit and 60.2 million grant), supported the implementation of policy
actions in the areas of (i) good governance, and (ii) human development.

3.      On governance, the PRSC 1 supported the implementation of 2004 Priority Action Plan for
public expenditure management reforms, which included measures such as: the preparation and
submission to Parliament of the public finance framework law; improved alignment of the 2004
budget to the priorities of the PRS, the reform of the Treasury, simplification of expenditure
management process, the development and submission to Parliament of a new Procurement Code, and
strengthening internal controls through the establishment of a General Inspectorate for Finances. The
PRSC 1 also supported anti-corruption measures, including the establishment of an operational Anti-
Corruption Commission and the development of a national anti-corruption strategy. In addition, the
PRSC 1 supported the development of a judicial reform strategy.

4.      In the area of human development, the PRSC 1 supported the development and implementation
of Government's Education for All agenda. Key policy reforms included an increase in the education
budget, measures to decrease education costs for poor households (suppression of school fees,
provision of learning materials to all primary students), actions to increase access for poor students
(through school construction, salary compensation for teachers paid by parents, teacher recruitment)
and reinforcement of management capacity at central and decentralized levels. The PRSC 1 also

supported policy and institutional reform in the nutrition sector, including the integration of the
interventions of the Community Based Nutrition Project in Government's National Nutrition Program
and the establishment of the National Nutrition Office.


4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

5.       The overall outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory. The Government has made good
progress in implementing the policy and institutional program supported by the PRSC, albeit these
efforts were hampered by (i) the adverse macro-economic environment; (ii) capacity constrains for
budget execution; and (iii) unanticipated implementation delays (cf. section below).

6.       The key actions taken between June 2004 and June 2005 in the area of Governance are
summarized in Table 1. Salient features include the overall satisfactory implementation of the 2004
Priority Action Plan and the establishment of an independent anti-corruption agency. Some measures
for strengthening budget execution and accountability were delayed, though, including the
development of an integrated financial management system, the preparation of implementation rules
for the new Procurement Code, and the examination of the accounts for 2002 and 2003 by the Auditor
General. Reasons advanced for the delays include problems with the equipment to be installed,
difficulties in recruiting the suitable consultant, and the presence of important backlog at the level of
the Auditor General. As a result, some indicative triggers for PRSC 2 were adjusted or dropped (Table
2).

7.       The Government has also made good progress with the implementation of the human
development program. A major achievement was the increase of budget allocation in the 2005 Finance
Law for key PRSP priorities - including education, health, nutrition, transport and water supply. All
triggers for the PRSC 2 in that area were met but for the one on water supply, where adequate staffing
and equipment of the Directorate of Water and Sanitation and the six regional branches were delayed.
In the area of education, the enrollment increase at the primary stage exceeded expectations, reaching
a rate of over 90. Key measures taken by the Government included free supply of textbooks and pupils
material, provision of funds to schools and higher subsidies for community teachers. Significant
progress was also made in expanding schooling facilities. In the area of nutrition, the PRSC gave the
Government the opportunity to reassert its commitment to fight malnutrition through the adoption of
the first National Nutrition Program and the establishment of the National Nutrition Office. Despite
these important achievements, implementation of the program was significantly constrained due
mostly to difficulties with budget execution.

8.       The second operation of the PRSC was approved in July 2005 for a total credit amount of
SDR53.9 million. It will consolidate and deepen the support for policy and institutional reforms
commenced under PRSC 1. The monitoring indicators for measuring the outcome of the program in
2006 remained unchanged, but for two minor adjustments.1 More significant changes were introduced,
though, in the Policy and Institutional reform matrix for the PRSC. These changes, drawing on
lessons from the first year of execution, resulted in a streamlined set of reforms and the extension of
the implementation period for an additional year. In addition, given that the PRSC focuses explicitly
on the pillars of governance and human development, all the measures related to the second axis of the
PRS, namely Broad Based Growth, were dropped from the matrix.


1The expected outcomes for primary enrollment and completion rates were revised upwards (indeed enrollment rates
achieved in 2004 were already higher than the expected output for 2006). The level of indicators and objectives for two
health indicators were also adjusted on the basis of new data produced in May 2005.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

9.       The three major factors which affected the implementation of the program during the first year
were: (i) the adverse macro-economic environment for 2004; (ii) capacity constrains for budget
execution, notably with respect to procurement and financial management in the sector ministries; and
(iii) unanticipated delays in the implementation of some reforms.

10.      The adverse macro-economic situation - marked by exogenous chocks, a strong depreciation of
the exchange rate and a surge in inflation - seriously hampered the execution of 2004 budget.2
Expenditure needs, notably for imported goods, increased sharply owing to cyclone reconstruction
needs and the sharp depreciation of the exchange rate. On the resources side, the revenue collection
was below expectation and donor flow aid was delayed. The Government had to adjust through a
curtailment of expenditures, with a freeze of commitments in March 2004, a reduction in expenditures
mid-year, and a shortened expenditure cycle. Although the Government attempted to limit the cuts for
priority sectors, the unpredictability and stop-and-go cycles affected delivery in all sectors.

11.      In addition to this overall budgetary constraint, limited capacity for budget execution within
the sector ministries - notably with respect to procurement procedures and financial management - was
manifest and contributed to the execution delays observed in most sectors. This situation has been
exacerbated by the lack of understanding of the PRSC instrument in sectors which were used to
investment projects. This is unlikely to improve for 2005, as the decision of the Government to
introduce budget programs a year ahead of schedule has added significant challenges for
administration. Indeed, preliminary data indicates that lack of familiarity with the new procedures is
hampering budget execution for 2005, notably in peripheral administrations in the education and
health sectors.

12.      The Government made good progress in implementing the policy and institutional program,
though reforms took in general longer to accomplish than originally anticipated. The main reasons
included over-optimism at the design stage, insufficient prioritization of actions, and under-estimation
of the capacity constraints and implementation lead times. This was particularly true for measures
aimed at strengthening the procurement framework and the accountability and transparency of budget
execution, some of which required amendments to the regulatory framework and the establishment of
new institutions (e.g. the General Inspectorate for Finance).


6. Bank and Borrower Performance

13.      Overall Bank performance was moderately satisfactory. The objectives of the PRSC were well
aligned with Government's PRS and the program was underpinned by solid analytical work. The
PRSC 1 document rightly identified difficulties with the implementation of budgetary and governance
reforms as a serious risk for the program. To mitigate this risk parallel support was provided through
the governance project and WBI capacity building support.

14.      Similarly, the overall Borrower performance was moderately satisfactory. The Government has
made good progress in implementing the policy and institutional program supported by the PRSC. It
has also made commendable efforts to prioritize and sequence the actions and has succeeded in
rallying the donors around the Priority Action Plan. However, the continued difficulties with respect to


2The depreciation was due mainly to a surge in imports during the first half of 2004 - owing to increased government
capital expenditure, an acceleration of private imports in response to tax and tariff exemptions granted in 2003, and higher
oil prices - and weak exports, as the vanilla and shell industries were damaged by two successive cyclones.

budget preparation and execution have somehow hampered the overall outcome of the program. In that
respect, continued and unwavering efforts to monitor and coordinate the reform program will remain
critical.


7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s) in Series

15.     The first year of implementation evidenced the need for continued and increased support for
public and financial management reforms. In particular, efforts to strengthen and build capacity in the
sector ministries for budget formulation, procurement and financial management should be furthered.

16.     The need for greater realism in setting the targets and the timeframe was also manifest. Further
work with the Government would be needed to prioritize and scale up reform process in congruence
with existing capacities.

17.     The unpredictability of flows of resources seriously hampered budget execution during 2004.
Predictability could be improved through better revenue forecasting. A better alignment of donor
disbursements with the budget cycle might also contribute to improve predictability. The actual
firmness of the commitment is actually more relevant than the timing of the disbursement, however in
the case of Madagascar the availability of resources upfront could be critical in providing the level of
confidence and certainty needed to execute the budget and avoid stop-and-go cycles.

Table 1:          Key Policy and Institutional Reforms in Governance since July 2004

Area                    Actions taken by the Government since July 2004

Public Financial Management

Overall implementation  ·   Satisfactorily implemented 2004 Priority Action Plan for public finance reforms.
                        ·   Developed 2005 Priority Action Plan for public finance reforms.
                        ·   Strengthened reform coordination in MEFB.
Budget Formulation      ·   Allocated greater share of resources to PRSP priority sectors in 2005 budget relative to 2004.
                        ·   Introduced program budgets in 2005 with a medium-term perspective and better link between
                            sector priorities and budgets.
                        ·   Strengthened capacity of sector ministries.
Budget Execution        ·   Simplified expenditure management process and strengthened budget execution capacity of
                            key spending ministries.
                        ·   Made fully operational the transitional integrated financial management system in Tamatave;
                            and expected to be operational in Antananarivo and four additional provincial treasuries
                            shortly.
Procurement             ·   Prepared implementing rules and regulations for new Procurement Code.
                        ·   Prepared standard bidding documents.
                        ·   Established Procurement Oversight Institution.

Accountability          ·   Submitted final accounts for 2000 and 2002 to the Chambre des Comptes.
                        ·   Loi de Règlement for 1998 voted by Parliament
                        ·   Loi de Règlement for 1999 sent to MEFB by Chambre des Comptes for onward transmission
                            to Parliament.
                        ·   Loi de Réglement for 2000 examined by Chambre des Comptes and sent to MEFB for onward
                            transmission to Parliament.
Results-                ·   Established results framework (as outlined in Politique Générale de l'Etat) for the
focus/Monitoring            Administration and for each ministry.
                        ·   Conducted indicative PEFA of public financial management system in 2005.
Other Governance Areas

Anti-Corruption         ·   Made operational independent Anti-Corruption Agency (BIANCO) in October 2004.
                        ·   Prepared and passed Anti-corruption law, including key implementation decrees.
                        ·   New regulation for declaration of assets to improve compliance rate (as of mid-May 2005,
                            60% of public and elected officials required to fill declarations had done so).
                        ·   Prepared and passed anti-money laundering legislation.
                        ·   Submitted to Parliament law regulating political parties and their financing.
                        ·   Conducted independent audit of land titling system.
Justice                 ·   Prepared and passed law regulating commercial enterprises.
                        ·   Prepared and passed law rationalizing civil and commercial court procedures.
                        ·   Set up two model courts (TPI Antananarivo and Ambatolampy).
                        ·   Reduced backlog of cases in Antananarivo from 22,000 in 2002 to almost zero.
Customs                 ·   Prepared customs strategy and action plan.
                        ·   Merged customs tax and import duty into single customs duty.
                        ·   Eliminated customs duty credit (crédit de droit).
                        ·   Mandated payment of customs duty through banking system.
                        ·   Abolished immunity of customs agents from enquiries and prosecution.
                        ·   Rotated 430 customs agents in 2004/2005.
                        ·   Made operational automated data processing system (SYDONIA++) in Tamatave.
                        ·   Improved customs clearance procedures.
Source: PRSC2 program document (WB Report No. 32516-MG, June 9, 2005).

Table 2: Indicative Triggers for PRSC 2

                    Indicative PRSC 2 trigger in          Final PRSC 2 Prior Actions                    Comments
                       PRSC1 Board Document
Governance
Public Financial Satisfactory implementation of          Unchanged                        Trigger fulfilled
Management       Priority Action Plan for 2004,


                 in particular:
Budget           · Budget for 2005 allocates greater     Unchanged                        Trigger fulfilled
Formulation         share of resources to PRSP
                    priority sectors relative to 2004,
                    with adequate funding allocated
                    to key priorities (such as
                    education, health, nutrition).
Budget           · Progressive implementation of
Execution           the recommendations of the audit
                    of the treasury in particular:
                 (i) monthly accounts produced until     Adjusted: monthly accounts       Adjusted trigger fulfilled: there are
                    the 15th of the following month      produced until the 15th of the   delays in the effective functioning of
                    in the treasuries that installed the following month in Toamasina,    the system in Antananarivo and four
                    transitional financial               where the transitional financial additional provincial treasuries.
                    management system                    management system is             Original trigger proposed as prior
                                                         operational.                     action for PRSC 3.
                 (ii) final accounts for 2003 prepared   Unchanged                        Trigger fulfilled
                    by the Treasury.
                 · Transitional financial                Dropped                          See above.
                     management system installed in
                     four sites.

Procurement      · Implementing rules and                Dropped                          The draft implementing rules and
                    regulations for the new                                               regulations were produced in June
                    Procurement code issued by                                            2005, and have to be validated after
                    Government
                                                                                          consultations with stakeholders.
                                                                                          Original trigger proposed as prior
                                                                                          action for PRSC 3.
                 · Establish the new procurement         Unchanged                        Trigger fulfilled
                    oversight institution ("Autorité
                    de Régulation des Marchés
                    Publics")
Accountability   · Projet de loi de règlement for        Changed: Projet de loi de        Adjusted trigger not met, though
                    2002 and 2003 examined by the        Règlement for 2002 and 2003      expected by December 2005
                    Auditor General                      sent to the Auditor General.
Customs          Adopt a time-bound action plan for      Unchanged                        Trigger fulfilled
                 2005 for customs reform and start
                 implementation.
Human and Material Security
Education        Implementation of the National          Unchanged                        Trigger fulfilled
                 Education for All (EFA) on track.
                 MENRS will prepare and submit a         Unchanged                        Trigger fulfilled
                 sustainable Human Resources (HR)
                 rationalization plan.

                 Indicative PRSC 2 trigger in      Final PRSC 2 Prior Actions                 Comments
                   PRSC1 Board Document
Nutrition     Creation of National Council for    Unchanged                      Trigger fulfilled
              Nutrition and establishment of the
              secretariat (Office National de
              Nutrition) and appointment of its
              coordinator.




Health        Update health sector strategy.      Unchanged                      Trigger fulfilled

              Introduction    of  Medium     Term Unchanged                      Trigger fulfilled
              Expenditure Framework for the
              health sector commencing in CY
              2005.

Water Supply  The Directorate of Water and        Changed: The Directorate of    Adjusted trigger fulfilled
              Sanitation in Antananarivo and the  Water and Sanitation in
              six Faritany RWSS units are         Antananarivo and the six
              adequately staffed and equipped to  decentralized departments in
              implement successfully the          the provinces have started to
              proposed RWSS national program      adequately staff and equip
              "Water and Sanitation for All"      themselves to implement
              endorsed by GOM and donors in       successfully the "Water and
              October 2004                        Sanitation for All" program.

