Document of
The World Bank
Report No.:    22112 ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.00 MILLION (US$6.27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS S.N.C.
AND
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE
METHANE GAS CAPTURE AND USE AT A LANDFILL - DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
May 15, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Colombia, Mexico & Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 9110100)
Currency Unit = pesos
peso = US$0.108
US$ = 9.235 pesos
SDR= US$ 1.26804
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS             Banco National de Obras y Servicios Publicos
CFE                  Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad
CLFC                 Companiia de Luz y Fuerza del Centro
CRE                  Comisi6n Reguladora de Energia
GEF                  Global Environment Facility
GHG                  greenhouse gas
EMP                  environmental management plan
ETEISA               Estudios y Tecnicas Especializadas en Ingenieria, S.A. de C.V.
FMGb                 Financial Management Guidebook
Gwh                  gigawatt-hour
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
INE                  Instituto Nacional de Ecologia
IPP                  independent power producers
IRR                  internal rate of return
kW                   kilowatt
kwh                  kilowatt-hour
LAC                  Latin America and the Caribbean
LFG                  landfill gas
MOF                  Ministry of Finance (Secretaria Hacienda y Credito Piblico)
MV                   megavolts
NGO                  Non Governmental Organization
NPV                  net present value
O&M                  Operation and Maintenence
PEMEX                Petroleos Mexicanos
PY                   project year
S.A. de C.V.         Sociedad An6nima de Capital Variable
SEDESOL              Secretaria de Desarollo Social
SEMARNAP             Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca
SGSC&A               State Government Secretariat Control and Administration
SIMEPRODESO          Sistema Metropolitano de Procesamiento de Desechos S61idos
SME                  Sindicato Mexicano de Electricistas
SOE                  statement of expenditures
SUTERM               Sindicato Unico de Trabajadores Electricistas de la Rep6blica Mexicana
SWM                  solid waste management
UMS                  United Mexican States
UIN                  United Nations
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
UNFCCC               United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
USDOE                United States Department of Energy
USEPA                United States Environmental Protection Agency
USTDA                United States Trade and Development Agency
VOC                  volatile organic compound
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Oliver Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny M. Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Walter Vergara



MEXICO
METHANE GAS CAPTURE AND USE AT A LANDFILL - DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    10
3. Benefits and target population                                                   10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         18
2. Financial                                                                        18
3. Technical                                                                        21
4. Institutional                                                                    23
5. Environmental                                                                    32
6. Social                                                                           35
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               39
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   40
2. Critical risks                                                                   41
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   42



G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          43
2. OtherLegal Covenants                                                             44
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        44
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       44
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        46
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  56
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       60
Annex 4: Detailed Financial Analysis and Incremental Cost Analysis                     61
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             70
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     71
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   79
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 80
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          85
Annex 11: Environmental Management Plan                                                86
Annex 12: Financial Analysis from Perspective of Strategic Partner                     89
Annex 13: Description of Mexican Power Sector                                          91
Annex 14: Background Information: Solid Waste Management II Project                    93
Annex 15: Estimation of Landfill Gas Production and Electricity Generation             96
Annex 16: Description of SIMEPRODESO Landfill                                         100
MAP(S)



MEXICO
Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSEN
Date: April 17, 2001                               Team Leader: Walter Vergara
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade       Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P063463                                Sector(s): PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
Theme(s): Energy
Focal Area: G                                      Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [ ] Credit    [X] Grant    [ ] Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):
Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                         0.25           0.14           0.40
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                      1.77           4.50           6.27
OTHER PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                                 1.36           5.23           6.58
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                           3.38           9.87          13.25
Borrower/Recipient: UNITED MEXICAN STATES, BANOBRAS
Responsible agency: BANOBRAS
BANOBRAS
Address: Tecoyotitla 100 piso 3, Col Florida, Mexico D.F. 01030
Contact Person: Lic. Alejandro Peralta
Tel: 525 723 6261                 Fax: 525 723 6007                Email: aperalta@banobras.gob.mx
idiaza@banobras.gob.mx
Other Agency(ies):
SEDESOL
Address: Exhacienda Belem de Las Flores S/N
Contact Person: Ing. Gustavo Rosiles Castro
Tel: 525 273 2959               Fax: 525 273 2959                Email: direcressol@yahoo.com.mx
SIMEPRODESO
Address: Emilio Carranza No. 730 Sur 2do Piso
C.P. 64000 Monterrey, N.L.
Contact Person: Ing. Carlos Segovia
Tel: 528 344 5430              Fax: 528 344 5430 ext 214              Email: simeprode@infosel.net mx
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY: 0--  ~  2002      2003        2004      2005       2006
Annual-   2.50         2.44       0.82       0.38       0.13
Cumulative    2.50        4.94       5.76        6.14      6.27
Project implementation period: October 31, 2001-December 31, 2005; Closing Date: June 30, 2006
OCS PAD F-nn Rev Me,. 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed GEF project seeks to demonstrate a proven technology for landfill gas (LFG) capture and use
and reduce barriers to development of future LFG projects. The proposed GEF project would build upon
an existing Government and Bank-supported program to modernize solid waste management in small- and
medium-sized cities (Ln. 3752-ME, the baseline project, closed on December 31st, 2000 with remaining
funds cancelled). The project will result in immediate reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG)
and will serve as a model for the internalization of GHG control measures in solid waste management
programs.
The objectives of the Project are to expand the assistance provided to the Recipient under the Baseline
Project for the improvement of solid waste management by: (a) demonstrating a cost-effective technology
for LFG capture and use in a selected facility; (b) demonstrating an institutional structure for the
implementation of LFG projects, including private sector participation; (c) strengthening the UMS's
regulatory policy and social frameworks for the introduction of LFG capture and use in Mexico; (d)
designing a dissemination strategy to share the lessons learned throughout Project implementation with
relevant stakeholders in Mexico and Latin America; and (e) designing a strategy to encourage the
replication of the Project in Mexico.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The LFG collection system and power plant to be installed and operated at the SIMEPRODESO landfill
located in Salinas Victoria near the Monterrey metropolitan area in the State of Nuevo Le6n, the key
physical activity of the project, is expected to capture or substitute for an equivalent of 0.99 million tons of
carbon over 20 years. The key performance indicator for this component is that the demonstration LFG
facility is shown to be technically, financially and institutionally feasible within the Mexican context. The
key performance indicators that will monitor the performance of the remaining components (Capacity
Building, Policy and Regulatory Reform and Regional Dissemination) are: i) the number of potential
participants in LFG projects in Mexico and Latin America to whom technical, institutional, and managerial
knowledge on LFG were made available; ii) incorporation of LFG management issues into proposed
legislation; iii) increase in number of government programs for support of LFG facility development; and
iv) increase in number of planned LFG projects in Mexico.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19289-MX         Date of latest CAS discussion: May 13, 1999
The CAS identifies three core themes for World Bank Group Assistance to Mexico - social sustainability,
removing obstacles to sustainable growth, and effective public governance. Within this broad framework,
the Bank Strategy for Infrastructure mentions support for renewable energy and municipal development
plans as priorities for action. The Solid Waste Sector is noted as one of the key sectors that needs attention
in order to improve service delivery. The CAS also includes, as part of the environmental agenda,
promotion of institutional development, decentralization of environmental management, improved cost
recovery of environmental services and "win-win" investment opportunities where global environmental
benefits and national economic benefits can be generated through an integrated and mainstreamed approach
to development priorities. Additionally, a draft of the Mexico Urban Policy Note mentions the development
of nation-wide managerial training and institution building for state and local officials as a priority.
-2 -



la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The project is fully consistent and was prepared pursuant to guidance from the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Specifically, the GEF resources will be utilized to finance
part of the incremental costs associated with reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. A pre-feasibility
study that used technical, social, economic and financial criteria to rank project options, identified Salinas
Victoria as the most attractive site out of the 33 cities preselected for the analysis, and power generation as
the most viable use of LFG.
The proposed project is consistent with both the GEF guidance (June 1997) for Operational Program
Number 6 (Renewable Energy) and with the GEF Operational Strategy (February 1996) for short-term
projects in the climate change focal area. This is because the project is: i) technically, environmentally and
socially sustainable, ii) a national priority and country driven; iii) cost effective, capturing and substituting
for greenhouse gases at an anticipated cost of about $4.99 per ton of carbon; and iv) it provides a
programmatic approach to barrier removal that is expected to lay the foundation for cost-effective
replication over the medium and long-term. In addition, the project would support essential transfer of
technology and managerial assistance through the technical and financial partnership formed to implement
the demonstration project and practical hands on experience for widespread application of methane capture
at landfills in Mexico and elsewhere.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues.
Solid Waste Management (SWM). As is the case with many developing nations, Mexico faces serious
difficulties in the management of urban refuse and solid waste. It is estimated that over 82,000 tons of
solid waste is generated in the country every day. Yet, there is a general lack of proper treatment and
disposal facilities, institutional capacities are weak, and financial support at local and municipal levels is
frequently deficient. The problem is exacerbated by: i) the sustained growth of population; ii) the high rate
of rural migration to urban settings; and iii) an increased degree of industrialization and associated local
consumption patterns. For example, during the last several decades, Mexico has been urbanizing rapidly
(currently, approximately 60% of the population of 92 million* live in cities with over 15,000 inhabitants).
The per capita generation of urban refuse has also increased in response to increased per capita incomes.
Regrettably, of all the solid waste generated, only 77% is collected (62 thousand tons per day) and less than
35% is disposed under sanitary conditions (29 thousand tons per day). Open dumping is the most common
solid waste disposal method in small- and medium-sized cities in Mexico. Open dumping contributes to
serious health and safety problems in affected communities, has a negative impact on property values and
has been linked to the contamination of aquifers and surface waters. Further, open dumpsites are often
associated with a significant scavenging population who depend upon recycling of refuse items for their
livelihood. Sanitary landfills have been gradually introduced in Mexico over the past fifteen years**,
together with training and occupational programs that create jobs for scavengers at transfer stations and
recycling plants.
At present, there are approximately 20 small- and medium-sized cities in Mexico that operate sanitary
landfills. Institutional and regulatory arrangements for SWM appear to be clear and satisfactory. Of
particular importance is the Social Development Secretary (SEDESOL), the agency responsible for setting
national solid waste policies and directing federal assistance for solid waste. Under the leadership of
SEDESOL, and in cooperation with several municipalities (seven of which are also receiving Bank
assistance) a training and investment program was launched to address SWM needs in: a) institutional
- 3 -



development (management and operation); b) training of regulators, managers and operators; c) support for
investments in solid waste management; and d) development of cost-recovery schemes for waste
management services. Independent operators are now involved in 14 municipalities and are dealing
*Estimate of 1997 population size, annual growth rate 2%.
**The first "sanitary" landfill-i.e., an engineered solid waste management facility with a liner, cover material, and some degree of waste
compaction--was built in the DF in 19S6 (Poniente landfill) as a prelude to a nation-wide program initiated in 1993.
- 4 -



with collection and transfer. These efforts have yielded a higher level of participation of the private sector
in the delivery of solid waste management services as well as in a higher level of managerial capacity in the
assisted communities. The participation of private sector and joint private/public solid waste companies
have addressed a chronic weakness in the delivery of services. It is now expected that the examples
provided by these operators will open the way to a higher level of service and accountability. New
regulations have recently been issued that establish the minimum requirements for sanitary landfills and are
now in force.
Landfill Gas Management. As the waste that is deposited in landfills and dumpsites decomposes, it
produces LFG which is typically composed of 50% methane and 50% CO2+ trace gases. Methane is a
greenhouse gas and emissions from landfills contribute about 10% of total methane emissions in Mexico*.
As a greenhouse gas, methane is 21 times more potent than CO2 on a molecular weight basis. Put another
way, each ton of methane emitted into the atmosphere has the equivalent warming impact of 21 tons of
carbon dioxide** and by burning CH for conversion to CO2, greenhouse gas emissions will decrease 21
fold. Recently, additional calls for forceful actions in the reduction of methane emnissions have been made
in the scientific and climate change policy communities. The reduction of methane emissions is a critical
part of the Mexican strategy to control emission of greenhouse gases.
There are currently no LFG facilities in Mexico. In fact, only a handful of LFG utilization plants are in
operation in developing nations worldwide. Mexico lacks technical and institutional experience specific to
the identification, design and implementation of LFG capture and utilization projects. Regulations
targeting LFG management at sanitary landfills have yet to be issued. Under the proposed project, a
demonstration LFG project will be implemented through a public-private partnership at a landfill in Salinas
Victoria. The landfill operator, SIMEPRODESO, will implement the project under a private-public
institutional arrangement common to independent power production in Mexico. Through the Ministry of
Social Development, SEDESOL, the project will also provide training and dissemination of the results of
the demonstration project to municipalities and other participants in the solid waste and energy sectors.
SEDESOL will also oversee the studies necessary for review of LFG issues in existing solid waste
legislation.
Electricity Supply by Independent Generators. Power supply in Mexico has been a traditional public sector
domain, but as supply has failed to keep up with growing demand (6% per year), the electricity authority
(CFE) has opened the door to private sector participation in financing and operating generating facilities.
Current regulations now allow for private generators to supply electricity to the national grid or for self-use
(as a co-generation company or independently). Most of the independent generation is still for the latter.
However, the current plan for the electric sector envisions a large increase in installed capacity from
independent generators. The expected increase in power requirements and the commitment of the
Government and the CFE to expand the clean energy component in the national power mix provide a basis
for the planning and implementation of independent generation capacity. There are currently 80
Independent Power Producers (IPPs) that are either generating or scheduled to provide almost 4,000 MW
by 2003. The proposed plant will provide 7 MW (-0.2%) of this emerging sector. LFG has not been
regulated as an alternative fuel but is excluded from the definition of natural gas and therefore does not fall
'Avances en el desarrollo de indicadores para la evaluaci6n del desempeno ambiental en Mexico 1997, INE, SEMARNAP.
** "Turning Liability into an Asset: A Landfill Gas-to-Energy Project Development Handbook", Landfill Methane Outreach Program, USEPA
(September 1996).
-5-



under the jurisdiction of PEMEX, thus allowing private sector exploitation of LFG. The use of LFG is
possible for independent power generation because current regulations allow for the use of by-products
from existing production processes for electricity generation.
Government Strategy.
Solid Waste Management. In its broadest form, the GoM's strategy for halting environmental degradation
and remedying past problems is articulated in its "Plan Nacional de Desarrollo: 1995-2000" and its
"Programa Nacional para la Protecci6n del Medio Ambiente". Within this framework, UMS has initiated
reforms to enhance the participation of state and municipal governments in the provision of basic
conditions to improve solid waste management through "La Norma Oficial Mexicana"
(NOM-083-ECOL-1996) and is implementing a strategy to strengthen solid waste management at multiple
levels. The strategy calls for: a) strengthening of regulations and institutions at a federal and local level
conducive to more effective practices and incentives; b) extension of services to medium and small size
localities and promotion of private sector participation; c) harmonization of solid waste management efforts
with efforts aimed at controlling the release of greenhouse gases (emissions of landfill methane); and d)
promotion of recycling.
Mindful of the long-term costs of improper solid waste management, the UMS has initiated, with assistance
from the World Bank, a program designed to address some of the underlying causes of improper solid
waste management. This program is being implemented by SEDESOL and is assisting specific
communities, committed to policy and institutional reform to develop, design and operate long-term solid
waste management programs. The assistance will also result in the mapping of a comprehensive recycling
plan. The Baseline Project has been successful in reaching policy and institutional agreements with various
municipalities representing a wide-spectrum of local conditions (see Annex 14 for more details).*
The UMS now wishes to expand its approach to solid waste management in small- and medium-sized cities
by integrating management of LFG as one of the required elements for sanitary landfills. It also wishes to
expand technical and financial assistance to committed municipalities so that they may build their capacity
to handle this new aspect of solid waste management effectively. The project is intended to demonstrate the
application of the technology and institutional framework necessary for the operation of a methane capture
and use plant in Mexico. Over the longer term, the UMS intends to expand its program of assistance to
additional small- and medium-sized municipalities, and such expansion programs would integrate LFG
management as part of the solid waste strategy, building on the lessons from the demonstration project.
The project would assist in this process by analyzing barriers and capacity gaps, and developing a national
dissemination/replication strategy.
Social Participation Strategy Related to Waste Management. SEDESOL's solid waste management
strategy calls for the upgrading of open dumps to sanitary landfills at sites where unregulated scavenging
operations are routinely performed. Conversion of open dumps to sanitary landfills include measures to
mitigate the social impact on scavengers. The Baseline Project included social participation strategies for
populations negatively affected by the improved solid waste disposal. Measures that have proved
successful include the organization of transfer stations where recycling operations will be regulated, general
hygienic conditions improved, and training for alternative jobs, such as carpentry and baking. The transfer
stations are expected to employ many of the displaced scavengers. The UJMS also has General Strategic
Guidelines which promote public participation in cleaning up neighborhoods. In general, introducing
*Including the following municipalities: Guanajuato; Monterrey; Durango; Aguascalientes; Tamnpico-Madero-Altamira; Manzanillo; Cuautla.
- 6-



LFG capture technologies at a well-managed sanitary landfill does not entail additional social impacts.
Institutional Capacity for Solid Waste/Landfill Gas Management. UMS has invested substantial resources
over the past 5 years for the purposes of technical assistance, training courses, and workshops aimed at
improving the knowledge and skills base of both federal officials and municipalities staff related to solid
waste management. Many of the courses and materials were supported by the Baseline Project. The UMS,
with support from the GEF, now intends to expand the scope of training and technical assistance to include
LFG management. Under thus proposed GEF project, a LFG expert will be hired by SEDESOL to assist
in the implementation of this training and technical assistance in order to facilitate the replication of the
technology throughout the country.
Policy Strategy for Solid Waste/Landfill Gas Management. The current regulatory framework for solid
waste management in Mexico is satisfactory with respect to standards established for solid waste collection
and disposal, environmental impact and social impact mitigation, and monitoring requirements. However,
LFG is currently not addressed in the normative framework. LFG collection and capture has been recently
recognized as a solid waste management concern and has been highlighted as a pending area for regulation
in SEDESOL's current strategy. Therefore, the UMS intends to prepare new regulations to strengthen
landfill construction guidelines in order to facilitate venting and collection of LFG and to promote proper
monitoring of LFG generation. The proposed Norma will address LFG issues in sanitary landfills. The
proposed GEF project will provide reviews in order to assist UMS in integrating LFG issues in the
proposed Norma. Enforcement of existing and proposed regulations has been delegated to the
Municipalities and therefore, SEDESOL has focused on training and capacity building efforts at the local
level. SEDESOL intends to continue its program of assistance to municipal waste management authorities
to raise awareness on the need for enforcement of federal regulations related to LFG emissions.
Policy Strategy for Independent Power Providers. The UMS has committed to expanding the role of clean
sources of energy in the national energy mix. To this end, CFE has created a unit for New Sources of
Energy, with the responsibility to promote and encourage the development and use of cleaner sources of
energy. The Secretary of Energy and CFE have indicated their support for future development of power
projects by the private sector. As the UMS has already decided to promote cleaner sources of energy and
independent power producers, the LFG project would be in support of this strategy. The UMS further
intends to analyze issues affecting LFG use and propose any necessary measures. There are no indications
that the recent change in government will change these policies.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Baseline Project is a key part of the UMS's commitment to improving solid waste management in
small- and medium-sized cities. The sector issues related to improving solid waste management, including
physical investments, capacity-building, social mitigation measures, and regulatory framework, are part of
the baseline project (Solid Waste Management I/Ln 3752-ME).
The project would address the major sector issues in the following manner:
*   The absence of sound technical information on how LFG capture and use technologies can be adapted
to Mexican landfill conditions will be addressed by supporting the design and implementation of a
system to capture and utilize LFG at the SIMEPRODESO landfill in Salinas Victoria;
*   The need for a model institutional structure for implementing LFG projects will be addressed through
the development of the demonstration facility at SIMEPRODESO under an institutional structure that
- 7 -



can be applied elsewhere in Mexico;
*   The goal to reduce methane emissions from open dumps and landfills will be addressed by
implementing a gas utilization project that will capture and estimated 214 million m' of methane;
*   The lack of municipal, private, state, or federal knowledge of and capacity for LFG management at
solid waste disposal sites will be addressed through the organization of workshops, dissemination of
technical documents, and other outreach materials designed to educate these stakeholders;
*   The incomplete regulatory framework as it pertains to LFG capture and use will be addressed by
working with SEDESOL to include technical specifications and standards for future LFG capture and
use plants in a draft Norma (084);
*   The absence of a replication strategy for integrating LFG capture in the SWM programs for small- and
medium-sized cities will be addressed through the development of a national replication strategy;
*   The need to design a participatory approach to deal with social impacts of future LFG capture plants in
Mexico and Latin America will be addressed in the preparation of a national replication strategy and
regional dissemination materials; and
*  The need to support and consolidate institutional capacity of SEDESOL, will be addressed by working
with SEDESOL to fund training, workshops on LFG capture and utilization, and by publishing
technical dissemination materials.
-8 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The major project component (A) will be the demonstration project at the SIMEPRODESO landfill in
Salinas Victoria. This will be implemented under a public-private institutional arrangement that can be
used as a model for replication in Mexico. The remaining components will be implemented by SEDESOL
and are designed to build capacity, disseminate project results, develop a strategy for replication, and
provide support in draft legislation.
A.    Detailed Engineering Design and Construction of a Plantfor Methane Capture and Use.
This component will provide funding for the design and construction of a LFG collection system and a
power plant (estimated to be 7 MW) at a 44 ha filled cell at the SIMEPRODESO landfill. The facility
will include: i) the wells, piping network and blowers that will collect the methane produced by the
landfill and deliver it to the power plant; ii) a power plant with a treatment plant to remove moisture
from the LFG before combustion; iii) substation and electrical connection lines necessary for
connection to CFE grid; iv) a flare that burns off excess methane not used by the power plant and thus
allows for maximal destruction of methane even during plant shutdowns; v) supporting infrastructure
such as roads, sewerage, water supply, buildings and lighting; and vi) project design, operator training
and supervision. The design, construction and operation of the plant will be implemented through a
private-public partnership with responsibilities shared between the two major partners, the landfill
owner (SIMEPRODESO) and a private company experienced in LFG ("Strategic Partner") (for details
see institutional section of Summary Analysis). As the project will be a technical, financial and
institutional model for replication, the development of the facility will be documented by
SIMEPRODESO for use in the Capacity Building and Regional Dissemination Components. These
documents will include: i) a design and construction summary report; ii) a quarterly operational
summary report; iii) an annual progress report that would include lessons learned during project
implementation and recommendations for future project replication; and iv) an annual environmental
summary report. In addition to this documentation, a representative from SEDESOL will be appointed
as an observer of the activities at SIMEPRODESO for the purpose of gathering information for the
implementation of the remaining components (see Annex 2 for details).
B.    Capacity building.
In order to promote replication of LFG collection and use facilities elsewhere in Mexico, this
component will build the capacity of SEDESOL, local and state government entities and private
contractors to promote and manage LFG projects. In addition, this component will fund the
preparation of a national replication strategy.
SEDESOL will implement this component and components C and D. To build SEDESOL's capacity
to assist municipalities in the design and implementation of LFG projects and directing federal
assistance in the subsector, this component will fund international training of SEDESOL employees.
The project will also allow SEDESOL to build capacity and promote LFG adoption in state and local
governments and private companies in the solid waste industry. Funding will be provided for the
preparation of dissemination materials, for training workshops, and for twinning arrangements where
an operating facility would provide managerial and technical assistance to a developing facility. Public
dissemination will also be undertaken through news releases, tours and demonstrations.
- 9-



The national replication strategy will focus on: i) developing LFG capture and use systems in existing
cells in sanitary landfills ("retrofitting"), in new cells within existing landfills, and in new facilities; ii)
introducing LFG management issues in the process of converting open dumps to sanitary landfills,
including discussion of methodologies, analysis and options for scavengers; iii) incorporating LFG
management in the planning, design and construction of future landfill sites; iv) assessing the prospects
of using non-grant financing modalities for future support to municipalities including access to carbon
trade resources; and v) assessing the prospects for the use of LFG as a source of energy for municipal
services in other Mexican cities. The applicability of international experience on separating
biodegradable materials for composting and its compatability with landfill gas projects will also be
addressed.
C.    Regulatory reform.
The project will strengthen the capacity of SEDESOL for the future development of a modem legal and
regulatory framework applicable to LFG management issues, through the provision of a regulatory
reform study. SEDESOL will implement this component.
D.    Regional (Latin America) Dissemination.
The project will support efforts aimed at facilitating the dissemination of design and operational
experience gained in Salinas Victoria and other projects worldwide (such as those supported by the
Bank in Indonesia, Latvia, Uruguay as well as others) for possible use throughout the region. The
potential compability of composting (including its use in agriculture) with landfill gas projects will also
be explored and included in the dissemination materials. The following activities will be funded by the
project and implemented by SEDESOL:
i) Preparation of a study on worldwide economic and technical effectiveness of LFG plants with a
focus on technical, financial and institutional barriers to implementation in developing countries and
best practice models appropriate to the Latin America context. In addition, a consultative workshop
will be funded that will include public, private and other entities in Latin America that are interested in
LFG;
ii) Development of information tools (a webpage and newsletter);
iii) Organization of international workshops for owners and operators of sanitary landfills interested in
LFG management and other potentially interested parties from the private sector, such as independent
power producers in the region; and
iv) Twinning arrangements that include intemnships and site visits for managers at operating LFG
facilities in other countries.
The impact of this component will be monitored by maintaining a list of participants and monitoring
what government programs or LFG projects are initiated by the participants.
E.    Project Management.
The project will fund the technical and administrative support necessary to implement the components
and to provide monitoring of the project as a whole. LFG specialists will be employed for the project
in SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO. The specialist at SIMEPRODESO will coordinate the
administrative implementation of the project including: planning, monitoring and evaluation, financial
management, accounting, risk management, procurement and information technology. The specialist
will also prepare the supporting reports for capacity building and regional dissemination components,
design tours, press releases and other public dissemination activities and coordinate with the Strategic
Partner in the training of SIMEPRODESO personnel. The specialist at SEDESOL assist in the
implementation of the Capacity Building, Policy and Regulatory Reform and Latin American
dissemination components. (see Institutional section of Summary Analysis for detailed institutional
- 10-



responsibilities). A portion of the costs of implementing the environmental management plan (see
Environmental section of Summary Analysis or Annex 11 for details on EMP) will also be funded.
The component will also fund the necessary consultants and staff for SIMEPRODESO to execute their
financial and procurement auditing and reporting responsibilities.
Indicative           Sank      % Of     GEF      % of
Component               sector       Costs      % of    financing   Bank  financing   GEF
______________________  :______________  IUSSM)  Total  (U-M )  financingy  (USSM)    financing
A. Physical Investment    Other Power &        11.45       86.5    0.00       0.0     4.92    78.5
Construction of the Plant for   Energy Conversion
Methane Capture and Use
B. Capacity Building      Institutional        0.90         6.8    0.00       0.0     0.60     9.6
Development
C. Policy and Regulatory  Institutional        0.05         0.4    0.00       0.0     0.05     0.8
Reform                    Development
D. Regional (LAC)         Institutional        0.50         3.8    0.00       0.0     0.50     8.0
Dissemination             Development
E. Project Management                           0.34        2.6    0.00       0.0     0.20     3.2
Total Project Costs                   13.24      100.0    0.00       0.0     6.27   100.0
Total Financing Required                   13.24      100.0    0.00       0.0     6.27   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the modemization of solid waste management policies though the incorporation of
LFG management needs in draft legislation. This will be sought through the carrying out of studies to
identify legislative changes.
On the institutional front, the project seeks the adoption by SEDESOL and, through it, at the municipal
level, an adequate level of awareness and technical expertise for proper consideration of LFG management
in landfill planning and design. The methane plant will be implemented by a Co-generation Company (see
section 4 below and institutional section of Summary Analysis) involving a private sector partner. This
participation will further encourage involvement of private companies in the provision of services in the
solid waste management sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
The baseline project (see Annex 14 for details) is intended to yield the following benefits:
*      improved implementation capacity for solid waste management at seven municipalities;
*      improved regulatory framework for solid waste management without the inclusion of LFG
concems; and
*      improved institutions and management capacity on landfill design and operation at a National
level.
Implementation of the proposed LFG project would result in the following benefits:
*      improved solid waste management practices that include LFG management;
*      collection of LFG (resulting in the capture of 214 million m' of methane
- 11 -



during the project's life);
*     reduction of explosion risk and odor at the landfill;
*     reduction in high carbon fuel consumption through the use of LFG as a fossil fuel substitute;
*     increased profitability of solid waste mnanagement; and
*     improved technical expertise in the area of solid waste management (including LFG
management).
Target population. The primary benefits of the project will be institutional including lower costs of
electricity for public services. However, the project would also benefit a local population of about 10,000
nearby inhabitants (5 km. radius) through reduced landfill emissions. On a national scale, replication of the
project will contribute to more effective waste management systems which will eventually benefit all urban
dwellers.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Recipient: BANOBRAS.
Flow of Funds: All funds will be transferred from the GEF to BANOBRAS. A single special account in
US dollars with an authorized allocation of US $550,000 will be established for the project at
BANOBRAS. Funds will be allocated to specific disbursement categories. The funds under components
B-D will be used by SEDESOL for implementation of the activities under that component. The funds
under Component E will be used by both SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO and they will be allocated
accordingly. For component A, BANOBRAS will reserve the right to disburse using direct payments.
BANOBRAS will enter into contractual agreements for transfer of funds (Convenios de Tranferencia de
Fondos) between (a) BANOBRAS and SIMEPRODESO on a non reimbursable basis for an amount of
SDR 4,046,000 equivalent and (b) BANOBRAS and SEDESOL on a non reimbursable basis for an
amount of SDR 954,000 equivalent. The contracts were finalized on April 16, 2001 and the signing of the
contracts will be a condition of effectiveness. (See Main Grant Conditions; Section G.)
imlementin2 azencies: SEDESOL will implement the capacity building, legal and regulatory reform and
Latin America dissemination components. To implement these components the project will provide funds
to SEDESOL for the cost of a LFG specialist and for training of other staff. SIMEPRODESO will be
responsible for coordinating with SEDESOL to provide the necessary information, tours and other support
to implement these components (see institutional section of Summary Analysis for details). A
representative from SEDESOL will be appointed as an observer of the activities at SIMEPRODESO for
the purpose of gathering information for the implementation of the remaining components.
The first component, the construction of the LFG demonstration plant, will involve the formation of a
Cogeneration Company between SIMEPRODESO, a private partner ("Strategic Partner"), the
Municipality of Monterrey, Servicios de Agua y Drenaje and Metrorrey (the subway system) (see section
E4 for detailed company structure). SIMEPRODESO will be responsible for the overall administrative
implementation of the demonstration project via an agreement with the Strategic Partner (see agreements in
Section E4. SIMEPRODESO will cover the following functions: planning, monitoring and evaluation,
financial management, accounting, risk management, procurement and information technology. The
Strategic Partner will be responsible for the overall technical implementation of the project including
design, construction and training. Initial operation of the plant will be the responsibility of the Strategic
Partner.
- 12 -



Participation Strategv. Given the demonstration character of the project, public participation is essential for
the dissemination of results and to facilitate early replication of the experience. The detailed strategy is
presented in the social section of the Summary Analysis. The capacity building and Latin America
dissemination components are specifically designed for participation for the purpose of project replication.
These components will include dissemination and training workshops, twinning arrangements and public
awareness activities such as tours and press releases. The development of the materials for these
components will be done in a participatory fashion through consultation of the major project stakeholders,
affected parties and interested public, private and non-profit entities. In addition, USEPA's Landfill
Methane Outreach Program, a voluntary program designed to provide technical and project facilitation
assistance to landfill owners and govemment agencies, will assist in the development of the materials for
dissemination and the twinning arrangements.
Mid term review. A mid term review is scheduled for 24 months after the Effective Date. It will be carried
out jointly with the UMS and the Bank and will review the progress of the project and the attainment of its
objectives on the basis of a report containing: (i) integrated summary of the monitoring and evaluation
activities (see Annex 1 for reporting requirements) and (ii) a summary of the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the project including the implementation of the EMP, and assessment of the performance of
the Cogeneration Company to be used in implementation of the demonstration project (see section E4 for
details of Cogeneration Company). The report will be produced 20 months after the Effective Date.
- 13 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A line of credit for widespread support of LFG capture schemes was considered but rejected because of
weak institutional, management and operational capacity in this field in Mexico. The design and
development of a new landfill for the purposes of maximizing methane generation and capture was also
considered. However, the time required to generate and collect methane was not consistent with the need to
implement Short-Term Measures.
Alternative locations. The prefeasibility study was designed to identify the optimum location for the
demonstration project among the many potential sites in Mexico. Initially 33 landfills and dumps that met
the list of basic requirements (at least 500,000 inhabitants; minimum annual precipitation of 200 mm; and
annual temperature between 15-30 C) were considered. In order to determine the optimum location, a
technical, financial and institutional assessment was conducted that included: i) technical issues at a
regional level and municipal level; ii) economic conditions; and iii) financial, social, political and legal
considerations. The analysis led to a short list of seven municipalities (and 10 landfill sites). A
questionnaire was sent to all 7 municipalities, requesting technical, institutional and social information
about the specific sites. Using 3 different gas generation models and the data in the questionnaires, LFG
generation was estimated and the list of 7 municipalities was ranked according to potential LFG
production. It should be noted that the process was designed to identify the optimal site for the
demonstration project and therefore eliminated many sites at which LFG facilities can be developed. The
potential sites for post project replication include the 33 sites prequalified for this study and others in larger
cities that were not considered.
Alternative uses. Several end-uses were considered for the LFG: i) power generation for sale to CFE or to
the municipality; ii) direct LFG supply to nearby industry; iii) supply of compressed methane to industry
pipelines for domestic use; and iv) purifying LFG to methane gas for use as vehicle fuel. Barrier analysis
and a financial assessment led to the conclusion that the best alternative end use was the sale of electricity
to the municipality (as defined by financial rate of return and the track record of the various end-use
technologies). Alternative schemes for power generation were considered and compared through an
economic-financial analysis. When the above steps were combined, Salinas Victoria (followed by Leon,
Guadalajara, Tijuana and Ciudad Juarez) was determined to be the best site for this project.
SIMEPRODESO Landfill: Main Technical Characteristics (see Annex 16 for more details)
Location                                               Salinas Victoria, Nuevo Le6n, Mexico
Population served                                      Approximately 2 million
Annualized average volume of waste received            830,000 tons
Type of waste received in gas extraction cells          Domestic and commercial (industrial and construction waste are placed in
another cell)
Date gas extraction cells opened                       1991
Date gas extraction cells filled                        1999
Lining in gas extraction cells                          Clay layer
Current LFG management system                          Passive vents are in place on 20% of cells
Volume of waste in place from gas extraction cells     7,698,057 tons
Estimated LFG production from gas extraction cells     313 million cubic meters over the lifetime of the project
Measured % methane in LFG                              50-60 %
- 14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.       .              :         Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project          j        'SR) Ratings
E______________________       ________________              Bank-financed  p oeets  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Environmental protection and natural  Mexico: Environmental Project  S            S
resource management, strengthening   (FY 92)
institutional and policy framework
Environmental investments,        Mexico: Northern Border           S             S
strengthening institutional capacity on  (FY 95)
the state and municipal level
Conservation and natural resource  Mexico: Protected Areas          S            S
management of protected areas     (GEF); (FY 94)
Regulatory framework and institutional Mexico: Air Quality I        S             S
strengthening
Strengthening institutional, technical,  Mexico: Solid Waste        S            S
administrative and regulatory capacity  Management II (FY 94)
and improving solid waste services
Municipal infrastructure and capacity  Mexico: Water and Sanitation  S            S
building                          II (FY 95)
Small scale municipal infrastructure,   Mexico: Decentralization &  U             S
institutional strengthening       Rural Development (DRD II);
(FY 96)
Institutional Strengthening       Mexico: Consolidation of          S             S
Office of Climate Change (IDF
Grant)
Institutional Strengthening       Mexico: Decentralization
Adjustment Loan
Renewable Energy                  Mexico: Hybrid Solar (in
preparation)
Solid Waste Management            Indonesia
Landfill Gas Capture and Use      Uruguay: Methane Capture and
Use
- 15 -



Solid Waste Management            Latvia: Liepaja Region Solid     S             S
Waste Management Project
Solid Waste Management            Latvia Municipal Solid Waste     S             S
Management Project
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank   Water and Sanitation in Rural
(IDB)                             Areas (US$ 30 million)
Inter-American Development Bank   Water supply and Management
(IDB)                            in ZMVM (US$ 365 million)
US Environmental Protection Agency   Landfill Gas-to-Energy
Feasibility Analysis, Prados de
la Montana Landfill, Mexico
German Cooperation (GTZ)          Air quality Mexico DF
German Cooperation (GTZ)          Decentralization of Solid Waste
Management
German Cooperation (GTZ)          Industrial Waste and
Hazard-ous Waste in Mexico
DF
German Cooperation (GTZ)          Environmental Technology for
Small-sized Industry
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The preparation team has drawn on the experience and lessons learned from other GEF supported projects
in order to improve project design and benefit from best practice. Peer reviewers have included task
managers of on-going and planned methane capture projects in Latvia and Uruguay. The STAP expert has
also provided useful comments.
The following lessons have been applied during project preparation:
Decision-makers at the municipal level should support the project objectives prior to site selection.
The project has been conceived and is being prepared with full participation of the municipal authorities
and the proposed owner-operator (SIMEPRODESO).
Workshops and training are critical for enabling the replication of project activities.
A technical training program has been included in project design.
Technical assistance provided to municipalities is essential.
The baseline project has provided the necessary technical assistance and training in municipal SWM to
support an integrated approach which includes LFG capture and use. The proposed GEF project will
provide technical assistance focused on LFG management.
Development of integrated plans is essential for effective management of municipal solid waste.
The baseline project has provided needed training and technical support to local and national decision
makers in developing integrated municipal SWM plans. The proposed project will build upon these plans
- 16 -



by integrating LFG management and utilization.
Full cost recovery is necessary to promote sustainability.
The LFG plant will be financed with GEF equity financing (grant) and financing from a private investor.
The financial analysis has detennined that with GEF financing the plant is financially viable and that all
costs will be recovered.
Clear managerial and institutional responsibilities are required.
Implementation of first component, the construction and operation of the demonstration project, will be the
primary responsibility of SIMEPRODESO. The rest of the project is under the purview of SEDESOL.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
Mexico ratified the framework Convention on Climate Change on March 11, 1993. The UMS submitted
its First National Communication and Climate Change Action Plan in 1997, which was supportive of the
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities under the framework convention. The first
communication provided an estimate of the total emissions of greenhouse gases, outlined programs for their
control and reduction and identified some of the impacts anticipated as a result of climate change. The
communication explicitly identified the uncontrolled release of LFG from landfills as one of the priority
sources of emissions of methane to the atmosphere and suggested measures to contain these emissions. On
April 30, 2000, the Mexican Congress approved by unanimous vote, the Kyoto Protocol, which includes a
national commitment to promote a program of actions to mitigate emissions of greenhouse gases.
The government has initiated the following measures, as part of the commitments under the UNFCCC: i)
promotion of cleaner fuels; ii) fuel conservation; and iii) energy conservation and efficiency. Other
measures adopted for conservation of the environment and natural resources are: i) The Protected Natural
Area Program; ii) The Forestry Program; iii) National Reforestation Program; iv) Integrated System for
Environmental Regulation and Administration; v) various policies regarding industrial and urban pollution;
and vi) registration of emissions and the transfer of contaminants.* The national communications attest to
the increasing awareness of the impacts and sources of methane emissions in the country. Mexico is now
drafting the second conmmunication to the UNFCCC which includes reductions in LFG emissions as part of
their plan of action.
With respect to the LFG management project proposed for GEF support, UMS has demonstrated its
commitment in the form of entering into a loan agreement (through BANOBRAS) with the World Bank for
the baseline project. In addition, the national GEF focal point has endorsed the project as a national priority
and as being fully consistent with Mexico's Climate Change Action Plan.
SEDESOL has demonstrated its commitment by organizing a course on LFG management in Salinas
Victoria and a conference in Puebla. They have also comrnmited to forming the project management unit for
this GEF add-on project. SIMEPRODESO has demonstrated its commitment to the demonstration project
through active participation in its preparation. They are organizing the bid for the strategic partner, have
hired financial and legal staff specifically for project preparation, and have successfully solicited approval
from the Congress of the State of Nuevo Leon to allow SIMEPRODESO to form the public-private
partnership proposed for the project. They have also have approval for continued preparation of the
project from the Board of Directors of SIMEPRODESO.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The involvement of the Bank/GEF in the proposed project provides an opportunity to support a critical
- 17-



effort by the UMS to: i) improve solid waste management; ii) improve global environmental quality through
the reduction of greenhouse gases; and ii) partly reduce dependence on high-carbon fuel-generated energy.
Bank involvement has made possible the sharing of its broad experience in solid waste management and
adapting it to Mexican conditions. GEF involvement is critical to catalyzing local willingness to test and
demonstrate LFG capture and use technology. As previously stated, the project could serve as a model for
other small- and medium-sized cities in Mexico, all facing serious problems with the management of solid
waste and emissions of methane.
*First National Communication to UNFCCC. UMS, 1997; Second Communication UNFCCC is in draft.
- 18-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O  Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
o Other (specify)
Following the guidelines of the GEF, an incremental cost analysis has been completed (see Annex 4). A
cost-effectiveness analysis has also been completed on the LFG demonstration project in Salinas Victoria
and concluded that the equivalent of 0.99 million tons carbon will be captured or substituted for at an
additional cost (over that of the baseline project) of US $17.32 million (investment cost=$11.5;
O&M=$5.82 million). The portion of the GEF grant allocated to this component (US $4.92 million) will
capture methane and reduce carbon emissions by fossil fuels at a cost of US $4.99 per ton of carbon.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 7.2 million; FRR = 27.6 % (see Annex 4)
Project Preparation
During project preparation, financial and other criteria were used to choose the site of the demonstration
project, the best technology alternative and for what purpose the electricity produced by the LFG plant will
be sold. Although the prefeasibility study indicated there are many potential sites at which LFG facilities
could be developed in Mexico (the prefeasibility study identified 33 in small- and medium-sized cities),
SIMEPRODESO was chosen as the best site for the demonstration project based on economic, social,
technical and financial criteria. It was found to be the most attractive project site after weighing the
investment costs, sources of financing, likelihood of private sector involvement and cooperation of state and
municipal authorities.
The technology alternatives considered in project preparation included the form of the gas (either biogas or
methane purified from the biogas) and the use of the gas (either for sale directly to industries and other
consumers or for the production of electricity). Of all the alternatives, the most financially viable was the
use of the unpurified biogas to produce electricity*. The potential consumers and uses for the electricity
that were considered during project preparation were: i) Municipality of Monterrey for street lighting or
lighting in public buildings; ii) Servicios de Agua y Drenaje de Monterrey (water utility) for water
pumping; iii) Metrorrey, and iv) CFE for use in the their supply grid. As the tariffs currently charged by
CFE to the Municipality of Monterrey for street lighting, Metrorrey and Servicios de Agua y Drenaje de
Monterrey for water pumping are the highest, the best option is to sell electricity to them at a slightly lower
tariff (the financial analysis assumes a 5 % discount of the costs of electricity)**. The potential consumers
have supplied letters of interest in the project and discussions concerning the exact tariffs to be charged
have begun. The exact prices will be part of the agreements and permits to be signed for formal
constitution of the project company ("Cogeneration Company"), which is a Condition of Grant
Effectiveness (See section G. Main Grant Conditions).
*Projecto Piloto Para El Aprovechamiento de Biogas de Los Sitios de Disposicion Final de Residuos Solidos Municipales,
January 1999 (Estudio de Prefactibilidad), ETEISA.
**As selling electricity to Metrorrey (the subway system) became an option after the financial analysis was done, it is not
considered in the analysis. The electricity tariff for Metrorrey is only slightly higher than that for Servicios de Agua y Drenaje
and therefore will only increase the average selling price and thus the IRR marginally.
- 19-



Project Financial Analysis
Without GEF financing, the project has a rate of return (FRR=13.4%; NPV=$2.2 million) that is marginal
for attracting private sector investment. However, with the addition of the GEF grant, the project has a
much higher rate of return (FRR=27.6%; NPV=$7.2 million).
Assumptions of Financial Analysis
Project start date and length                   20 years starting LFG capture in 2002.
Discount rate                                   10%
Gas production                                  Based on USEPA model (see section 3 below).
Investrnent costs                               Based on detailed design and conflnation by suppliers
US$11.5 million (w/o GEF grant); US$6.58 million
(w/GEF grant)
Electricity use                                 Sold to Municipality of Monterrey for street lighting
during nighttime and Servicios de Agua y Drenaje and
SIMEPRODESO during the day.
Electricity price                               5 % discount on current cost of electricity charged by
CFE to each consumer*.
Transmission and backup costs                    Wheeling and transportation costs given by CFE (0.153
pesos/kWh). Backup costs given by CFE (544,942
.pesos/yr).
Contingencies                                   17%  10% phsical+7%  rice.
*The project will sell electricity at a 5% discount on the electricity costs charged by CFE. Current costs charged
by CFE for electricity: Municipality of Monterrey for street lighting: 1.35 pesos/kwh; Servicios de Agua y
Drenaje for water pumping and SIMEPRODESO for materials recovery facility: 0.53-0.72 pesos/kwh (depending
on the amount, time of day and type of line). As selling electricity to Metrorrey (the subway system) became an
option after the financial analysis was done, it is not considered in the analysis. The electricity tariff for
Metrorrey is only slightly higher than that for Servicios de Agua y Drenaje and therefore will only increase the
average selling price and thus the IRR marginally.
A sensitivity analysis was performed (see table below) for the important parameters in the financial
analysis. With the GEF grant, the project has an intemal rate of return greater than 18% regardless of the
Sensitivity of Internal Rate of Return (%) to Changes in Important Parameters
With GEF Grant                      -Without GEF Grant
% change in          -20%   -10%   Base   +10%  +20%        -20%   -10%   Base  +10%  +20%
parameter            _            _     _
Electricity price     18.7   23.3   27.6   31.6   35.5       7.1    10.4   13.4   16.2   18.9
Investment costs      35.1   31.0   27.6   24.7   22.3       18.4   15.7   13.4   11.6   9.9
Gas production       20.6   24.2   27.6   30.8   34.0    _8.5    11.0  113.4   15.0   16.5
Delay in start of operation         Base   6      12                       Base  6        12
mths* mths*                            mths* mths*
27.6   23.7   22.4   -  1             t13.4   11.2   10.5
* It is assumed that in a delay of 6 months or less there would not be sufficient time for the contractor to adjust
the design and reduce the capacity of the plant (to 6 MW) to account for the lower total gas captured as a result of
the delay. This extra capacity is assumed to be sold at 70% of the original price.
** For longer delays, it is assumed the contractor will be able to adjust the design and reduce the capacity of the
plant (to 6 MW) to account for the lower total gas captured as a result of the delay.
- 20 -



change in the parameters. Thus, with the aid of the GEF grant, the returns of the project stay within a
range sufficient for attracting private sector investment. The project IRR is most sensitive to the electricity
price and less sensitive to project delay, investment costs and gas production. Several safeguards will be
built into the project to control these project inputs. The international competitive bidding of the private
partner will provide a built-in incentive for lower investment costs. In addition, incentives for timely
construction and gas capture above the estimated amounts will be included as part of the contractual
agreements.
Ability of Project to Attract Private Investment Under the Financial Structure of Cogeneration
Company
Through a international competitive bidding process (using Bank procurement guidelines),
SIMEPRODESO will select a Strategic Partner who will provide technical capacity and will invest in the
project (for details see Institutional section below). To ensure that the project (with the GEF grant) will be
able to attract a private sector investor from the LFG industry, a financial analysis (see Annex 12 for
details) was performed from the perspective of the Strategic Partner. The analysis assumed the financing
provided by the Strategic Partner (US$ 6.58 million) will contain proportions of debt and equity typical of
other LFG projects. The profit sharing and capital structure of the Cogeneration Company detailed in the
Institutional section below was also assumed. The results show the rate of return on the Strategic Partner's
equity investment will be equal to or greater than industry expectations (20-25% over 10 years) and thus is
a financially attractive investment.
Replication of the Project
The project is designed to set the stage for replication of LFG projects in Mexico and Latin America. The
demonstration project, capacity building, dissemination, policy and regulatory studies and the replication
strategy are all designed to encourage replication. Besides the risks associated with the lack of precedents
for LFG projects in Mexico and the barriers in institutional and technical capacity, the project will also,
through the national replication strategy (for Mexico) and the worldwide study on LFG projects (for Latin
America), develop mechanisms to address financing and financial barriers.
There are several financial mechanisms (listed below) that can assume the role that the grant played in the
demonstration project. Their role in future development of the landfill gas projects along with strategies to
encourage their application will be a focus of the replication strategy:
*   In the demonstration project, the GEF grant was needed to compensate for project risks and provide
adequate internal rate of return. It is expected that the operational and management experience of the
demonstration project will reduce the costs of developing a LFG project in Mexico and reduce the
perceived and real risks to private investment. This combined with the high electricity selling price
(2-3 times higher than those commonly found in the US) for these projects in Mexico may allow future
projects to be financially self-sustaining.
*   The estimated C02 mitigation costs from this project are in the range of $5/ton of C02 and therefore
constitute a very attractive option for the carbon trade market. It is expected that future projects in
Mexico and elsewhere would benefit from financing provided from the carbon trade.
*   The US system of providing tax incentives that effectively increase the transfer price of electricity is a
potential option for enhancing the financial returns of these projects. This will be evaluated as to its
necessity and policy implications and, if appropriate, the optimal means of implementation will be
explored.
- 21 -



Fiscal Impact:
The project has no negative impact on State or Federal Tax revenues.
3. Technical:
During project preparation, a prefeasibility study determined direct power generation from unpurified LFG
as the most viable technology alternative. In addition a feasibility study for the construction and operation
of a plant using the 44 ha filled cell at SIMEPRODESO was also prepared. The study was prepared by a
Mexican consulting firm (ETEISA) under the guidance of a consultant (SCS Engineers) with 15 years of
experience in LFG management in the United States and some experience in Latin America.
As described in the financial analysis (section 2 above), the prefeasibility study determined the most viable
technology alternative to be the use of unpurified LFG to produce electricity. To assess the use of this
technology at the SIMEPRODESO site, the feasibility study addressed the following issues:
1)      Production of gas from the landfill and the associated electrical generation: A USEPA LFG
production model was used to estimate the amount of biogas to be produced over the project lifetime. The
model has been extensively and successfully used in the U.S. as the basis for designing and financing LFG
projects. The dry conditions and differences in moisture content of the waste in Salinas Victoria were
accounted for in parameter estimation. The model found enough methane would be produced from the
filled 44 ha cell to support a 7 MW power plant (See Annex 15 for details). The input parameters for the
model are shown below along with the basis for the values.
Input parameters for model used to estimate gas production at the SIMEPRODESO landfill.
Parameter                                         Value                                    Basis
Methane gas generation constant (k)              0.066/yr          Typical value for a site such as this. The value was consistent with that
found from a 'pump test' at the site (0.0606/yr). The pump test was able
to estimate the methane production rate by determining the rate of
methane extraction (by the pump) necessary to balance the rate of
methane production (by the portion of the waste that methane was
extracted from).
Waste methane gas generation              95.4 m3 CH/Mg waste Estimated based on value of US waste accounting for the low annual
Wae ma4  g          e precipitation in Salinas Victoria and the differences in moisture content
potential (Lo)                                                     resulting from the higher waste food content in the SIMEPRODESO
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~ ~~~~~landfill.
Waste cell area                                   44 ha            SIMEPRODESO data.
Waste depth                                     22 meters          SIMEPRODESO data.
Waste density                                  0.71 Mg/m3          Typical value for 'in place' waste.
Waste age (year 2000)                        5 years average       SIMEPRODESO fill history.
Concentration of methane in LFG                    50%             Typical value confirmed by measurement at site (actual measurements
I___.                                                             ranged from 50-60%).
The model indicated 313 million m3 of methane will be produced over the 20 year project lifetime. The
amount of electricity that could be produced from this quantity of methane was determined using the
assumptions listed in the table below. Of the total methane produced in the landfill, it was estimated 214
million m' of methane (70% of LFG production) would be captured by the collection system. From this
quantity of methane, it was estimated the project could generate 700 GWh of electrical energy for a total
installed capacity of 7 MW. The effect of model uncertainty on project viability was assessed in the
financial sensitivity analysis where the estimated biogas production was varied +/- 20 % (see previous
financial section).
- 22-



Assumptions used to estimate the amount of electricity produced from the LFG at SIMEPRODESO.
Parameter                                           Value                                 Basis
Methane capture efficiency                           70%                   Industry averages* and observations of condition
of the filled 44 ha cell (good soil cover, no
interfering landfilling activities and no standing
liquids in the waste).
Engine thermal conversion                            34%                   Typical value.
efficiency
Engine down time (for                                15%                   A conservative (high) estimate based on the
and repairs).                                                operational difficulties that may be expected in
maintenance and repairs).                                                  Mexico. The value is based on World Bank
expenience in Latin America and industry
standards.
*Reported values in US range fom 60-85%. 75% is normally assumed nless there are reasons (such as poor landfill covering, orunusually small or lrge collection
system) to doubt this assumption.
The model also showed that, as expected, the gas produced by the 44 ha filled cell will decline over the
lifetime of the project (see Annex 16 for gas generation curve) as is the case with all LFG projects on filled
landfills or filled portions of landfills.*
2)      Design of methane collection system: From the pump tests (see Annex 16) the radius of influence
(the area around the well from which the well is extracting methane) was estimated and used as a basis for
choosing the spacing and thus the number of wells for the gas collection system. The network was
designed to facilitate drainage of condensed water vapor into condensate traps. Condensate sumps located
off the waste mound will be emptied and the liquid will be recirculated into the landfill in the same manner
as leachate is currently managed (see Environmental Management Plan, Annex 11 for details). The suction
applied to the system to collect the methane will be done using blowers. The required number and size of
the blowers was determined based on vacuum and discharge pressure requirements (Note: the cost of the
electricity to run the blowers was included in the O&M costs of the financial analysis).
3)      Treatment Plant: Landfill gas is typically saturated with water vapor and can have high
concentrations of corrosive compounds such as CO2. Based on field measurements of the LFG
composition, a treatment plant to remove moisture was found to be suitable for the project.
4)      Flare: To allow for maximal destruction of methane at the site, a flare will be installed that will
burn excess captured methane not used to produce electricity. Excess methane capture may occur when the
methane flow rate is higher than the engine capacity or during plant maintenance or repair.
5)      Electrical connection to CFE grid: The electricity produced by the plant will be connected to the
CFE grid and subsequently transported to the Municipality of Monterrey, Servicios de Agua y Drenaje and
Metrorrey by CFE. Based on consultations with CFE, the electricity will go through a substation that will
transform the voltage to 34.5 kW. Using a short line (-200 m), it can then be connected directly to the
public network in front of the landfill. This simple setup minimizes the costs of interconnection by using
connections that are cost-effective and by avoiding long interconnection lines. Note: the electrical
connection will be the responsibility of the Strategic Partner and is included in the project costs.
*It is expected that when the gas production from the 44 ha site declines to below the capacity of the existing engines, either the gas collection will be
expanded to include new cells that SIMEPRODESO will be filling or the engines will be sold. As the newly filled cells at SIMEPRODESO are not
within the framework of the proposed GEF project, the financial analysis assumes the unused engines will be sold.
Design and Construction Summary Report
- 23 -



For use in the Capacity Building and Latin America Dissemination components, a summary report
detailing the design and construction of the plant will be compiled from the reports provided by the
Strategic Partner during construction (such as design report, design criteria memorandum and as-built
drawings). O&M manuals will also be included in this report. SIMEPRODESO will be responsible for
consolidating the information into a format from which dissemination materials can be developed. This will
be produced after construction of the landfill gas facility.
Quarterly Operational Summary and Progress Report
The operation of the plant will be tracked weekly and summarized in quarterly reports (due October,
January, March and June 31) that include the following indicators: i) the available and rated capacity of
the engines; ii) total and average gas flow; iii) gas used for electricity production; iv) gas flared; v)
electricity produced; vi) electricity sales itemized by consumer; vii) itemized operational costs; and viii)
itemized maintenance costs. This report will be used in the evaluation process at the mid-term review (see
Main Grant Conditions, section G). In addition, quarterly progress reports will describe operational as well
as other lessons learned from the demonstration project that would be important in replication. The
quarterly reports will be prepared and furnished to the Bank on March 31, June 30, September 30 and
December 31 of each year during project implementation begining not later than December 31, 2001.
4. Institutional:
Implementation of Project
The institutions responsible for implementation of the project are shown in the diagram below. The
feasibility and prefeasibility studies were completed by a Mexican solid waste management consultant
(ETEISA) with the aid of a US consultant with experience in LFG. These reports will be used in the
execution of the demonstration project and the Capacity Building and Regional Dissemination Components.
The first component which involves the design and construction of the demonstration facility will be
implemented under a Cogeneration Company framework (detailed below). One of the major partners in
the Cogeneration Company will be a private sector "Strategic Partner" who will be expected to design and
construct the plant. SIMEPRODESO will be responsible for the overall administrative implementation of
the demonstration project via an agreement with the Strategic Partner. This will include: planning,
monitoring and evaluation (see Annex 1 for reporting requirements), financial management, procurement,
accounting, risk management, procurement and information technology. They will also provide SEDESOL
with the design and construction summary report, operational summary reports, annual progress reports
and environmental summary reports that will aid in the development of the dissemination materials and
replication strategy portions of the Capacity Building and Regional Dissemination components. They will
also provide access to their facilities and other support to SEDESOL for implementation of the other
components. This will include the development of tours, press releases and other public dissemination
activities.
SEDESOL will be responsible for implementing the Capacity Building, Policy and Regulatory Reform and
Regional (LAC) Dissemination components. The training of the SEDESOL staff and the preparation of the
major studies and materials for these components will be subcontracted to consultants. For the Capacity
Building Component the dissemination materials will be prepared for SEDESOL by a national consultant
guided by an international consultant familiar with LFG. The National Replication Strategy Report
- 24 -



Institutional Responsibilities for Implementation of Project Components
Cogeneration Company
Strategic Partner
'Design and Construction of Demonstration
World Bank/ETEISA                Facility
'Prefeasibility Study (completed)    SIMEPRODESO
-Feasibility Study (completed)     -Overall administrative responsibility
-Support Capacity Building and Regional
Dissemination components
-production of reports on demonstration
-aid with tours and public dissemination
flS1 DESOL
'Capacity Building
-dissemination
-training
-twinning arrangements
-replication strategy
-Policy and Regulatory Reform
'Regional (LAC) Dissemination
-dissemination
-training
-twinning arrangements
and the study on policy and regulatory reform will also be prepared for SEDESOL by a consultant. For
the Latin American dissemination component, a worldwide study on LFG facilities as well as the
dissemination materials will be prepared by for SEDESOL consultants. SEDESOL will be responsible for
the procurement, financial and monitoring and evaluation reports for the portion of the grant provided
under those components (see Annex 1 for reporting requirements).
- 25 -



Institutional setup for the SIMEPRODESO Demonstration Project Component
The LFG facility at SIMEPRODESO will be developed, constructed and operated under a Cogeneration
Company framework. The basic framework for the formation of the company was outlined after extensive
consultation with SIMEPRODESO, regulatory authorities (CRE), legal and business advisors and private
investors in the electricity sector in Mexico. The contracts that will be used to form the Cogeneration
Company were developed by the recipient with guidance and clearance from World Bank financial and
legal experts. The functioning of the Cogeneration Company including the roles of the partners described
below will be assessed at the mid-term review (see Main Grant Conditions, section G).
The Framework of the Company
A Cogeneration Company: The "Ley del Servicio Publico de Energia E1ectrica" (Electricity Law) allows
public or private investors to form a Cogeneration Company that provides electric services to its members
or partners. Since the passing of this Electricity Law many Cogeneration Companies have been formed in
Mexico. While the law does not allow electricity to be "sold", the Co-generation Company framework
allows electricity to be supplied by partners in the company to the other partners.
For the Co-generation Company in this project the electricity will be supplied by 2 partners,
SIMEPRODESO and a private sector Strategic Partner that will provide technological capacity. The
partners that will consume the electricity will be the Municipality of Monterrey, Servicios de Agua y
Drenaje de Monterrey (the water utility in Monterrey), Metrorrey (the subway system) and
SIMEPRODESO. The members of the Cogeneration Company will be contracted to be part of the
company for the 20 year lifetime of the project.
The Cogeneration Company that will produce electricity using LFG from the SIMEPRODESO
landfill.
Cogeneration     Approximate      Role (s)    Use of Electricity   Potential Demand by
Company Partner*    Contribution                                         Users
($US millions)
Strategic Partner       6.58        Provider of        none                none
capital
investment and
technical
capacity***
SIMEPRODESO            4.92**      LFG supplier,  Materials recovery    1 MW (day)
provider of    facility operation
capital
investment,
electricity
consumer
Municipality of         0.01         Electricity    Street lighting in  10.4 MW (night)
Monterrey                            consumer        Monterrey
Servicios de Agua y     0.01         Electricity   Water pumping        6 MW (day)
Drenaje****                          consumer
Metrorrey****           0.01         Electricity      Subway            6 MW (day)
consumer
- 26 -



*The partners of the Cogeneration Company will be contracted to be part of the Cogeneration Company for the 20 year lifetime of the project.
**The GEF grant will provide a US $4.92 million contribution to the capital costs. This money will be contributed as equity by SIMEPRODESO.
***The Strategic Partner will provide the design and construction, and operator training. The Strategic Partner will be responsible for operation for
the first 5 years of the project. After that time, the operation will be shared between the Strategic Partner and SIMEPRODESO. As a partner in the
Cogeneration Company the Strategic Partner will receive profits from the project for its 20 year lifetime.
**** Both Metrorrey and Servicios de Agua y Drenaje have indicated their interest as electricity customers during the day. The exact proportion of
electricity sold to these customers will be deterrnined at contract negotiations. They have similar demand but differ slightly in the selling price
(Metrorrey is higher) and peak hours of operation.
- 27 -



There have been many Cogeneration Companies formed in Mexico in the past. Comision Reguladora de
Energia (CRE) has indicated that they would grant a cogeneration permit for the proposed scheme and CFE
has confirmed its interest in the connection of the LFG facility to the grid. Prospective bidders have also
been consulted and had no problems with the proposed company structure.
Type of Company and Capital structure: The company will be a corporation or Sociedad An6nima de
Capital Variable (S.A. de C.V.) formed in accordance with Mexican law. The capital allocation of the
company will be the capital required to execute the project, estimated to be US $11.5 million. The major
contributions will be from the electricity suppliers, SIMEPRODESO (using the funds from the GEF grant
as an equity contribution) and the Strategic Partner. The Municipality of Monterrey, Servicios de Agua y
Drenaje and Metrorrey will only act as electricity consumers and thus will be expected to invest only a
nominal amount each. The Strategic Partner will be required to contribute its share of the capital costs
(estimated to be US $6.58 million) with a minimum amount of equity (US$1.5 million), the remainder may
be as equity or debt. If they chose to use debt-financing, they will be expected to obtain it themselves and
pay the debt service from their share of the revenues.
Profit Sharing
The profits will not be shared in proportion of the capital contributions in the first 5 years in order to allow
the Strategic Partner to benefit from the GEF grant. The rationale for this is explained below.
If the profits were shared in proportion to the partners capital contributions, the Strategic Partner would
receive 57% of the profits which would provide a rate of return on their investment (US$6.58 million) of
13.4%, equivalent to the project return without the GEF grant. This is because under this hypothetical
profit sharing setup, only SIMEPRODESO would benefit from the grant. While the Strategic Partner
could increase their return to greater than 13.4% using debt financing, the return would still be marginal for
them. Thus, it is necessary for SIMEPRODESO to share the benefits of the GEF grant with the Strategic
Partner.
The GEF grant will be used to increase the IRR of the Strategic Partner by allowing the Strategic Partner a
greater share of the profits in the first 5 years of the project (i.e. 80-100% rather than 57%). After the first
5 years the profits will be shared in proportion to the capital contributions (i.e. 57% Strategic Partner; 43%
SIMEPRODESO). SIMEPRODESO has this flexibility because they have received a grant to cover their
investment costs and thus a reduction in profits is not a critical issue to their participation. It has been
confirmed that this type of profit sharing setup is legal under Mexican law. The exact profit sharing to be
used in the project will be specified by the bidders in the bidding process (see Annex 6 for details). By
determining the exact profit sharing setup as part of the bidding for the Strategic Partner, an arrangement
that provides the minimum benefits necessary to attract private sector investment and maximizes benefits
for SlMEPRODESO's landfill operation can be achieved (again see Annex 6 for details).
Roles of Cogeneration Company Partners
Strategic Partner: As SIMEPRODESO does not have the experience with the technology for conversion
of LFG to electric power, a Strategic Partner will be chosen to be a partner in the company using an ICB
procedure consistent with Bank guidelines. The Strategic Partner will be expected to: i) invest the capital
required to complete project financing; ii) design and build the LFG collection system (including the
collection field, blowers, flare and associated buildings and roads) and the power plant (including engines,
engine house, treatment plant, and electrical substation and connection line); iii) assume full responsibility
for operation for the first 5 years of the project and share the responsibility with SIMEPRODESO for the
remainder of the project lifetime; and iv) train SIMEPRODESO operators by project year 5. As a member
- 28 -



of the Cogeneration Company the Strategic Partner will receive profits for the 20 year lifetime of the
project.
SIMEPRODESO: SIMEPRODESO will continue to be responsible for the maintenance of the existing
landfill that will provide fuel for the power plant. A nominal charge may be paid to SIMEPRODESO for
the use of the LFG. They will also share in the operation of the plant after the first 5 years of the project.
State congressional approval for SIMEPRODESO to enter into obligations with a foreign corporation (ie.,
the Strategic Partner) and thus to be a partner in the Cogeneration Company has been given and is now
reflected in SlMEPRODESO's constitution.
Electricity Consumers: SIMEPRODESO, Servicios de Agua y Drenaje and the Municipality of Monterrey
will use the electricity for public functions. The details of the delivery of the electricity will be provided
through an Agreement for Supply and Consumption of Energy (see below). The highly
regulated independent power producer market in Mexico means that the competition for electricity
pricing is limnited to the prices charged by CFE. Thus the electricity will be provided at discount below the
costs charged by CFE (the financial analysis -section E2- assumes a 5% discount on current costs of
electricity charged by CFE).
Company incorporation agreements including the By-laws and Joint Venture Agreement
The joint venture agreement will include (i) organization and purpose of the Cogeneration Company; (ii)
Capital structure; (iii) Operation of the Cogeneration Company; (iv) Additional agreements to be executed
by the Shareholders; (v) non-competition and confidentiality clauses; (vi) representations and warranties;
(v) conditions for implementation of the company; (viii) restriction on the transfer of shares; (ix) term and
termination; and (x) Buy-out arrangements.
The By-laws will include: (i) name, domicile, nationality, purpose and duration of the company; (ii) capital
structure and categories of shares; (iii) restrictions on the transfer of shares; (iv) increase and reduce of
capital; (v) voting rights; (vi) shareholders meeting; (vii) administration of the company; (viii) surveillance
of the company; (ix) profit and losses; (x) dissolution and liquidation of th company and; (xi) provisions
consistent with references made in the Grant agreement (Article IV, section 6.01 a)) related to events that
will seriously affect the nature of the GEF project or impair the realization of its objectives.
The establishment and operation of the Cogeneration Company (including signing the incorporation
agreements, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank) will be a condition of effectiveness (see Main Grant
Conditions, section G).
Contracts, agreements and permits
Listed in the following table are the required contracts and agreements. The required Cogeneration permit
is also described.
Cogeneration Permit: CRE grants the permit that allow for independent power production in Mexico.
This includes the Cogeneration permit necessary for this project. CRE has been consulted throughout
project preparation and has agreed with the proposed setup. SIMEPRODESO will initiate the permitting
process during bidding in order to obtain the permit shortly after the award of the bid.
Required Legal Instruments for the formation and operation of the Co-generation Company*
Legal Instrument                          Parties involved
- 29 -



Co-generation Permit                           Granted by CRE to SIMEPRODESO
Contracts for electricity connection and backup    Agreement between CFE and the Co-generation
Company.
Agreements for Supply and Consumption of       Agreement between the Co-generation Company and
Energy                                         the electricity consuming partners in the Co-generation
Company.
Landfill Gas Supply Agreement                  Agreement between the Co-generation company and
SIMEPRODESO.
Land Rental Agreements                         Agreements between SIMEPRODESO and the
Cogeneration Company.
Contract for technical project design,         Agreement between the Co-generation Company and
construction and operation of LFG facility and    the Strategic Partner.
operator training.
**The contrats have been drfted with guidance from Bank financial and legal experts and will be included in the bidding documents.
'This includes connection to the distribution grid, wheeling (transportation) and backup in case of temporary failure of the LFG power plant. The
formation of the Cogeneration Company (including signing the agreements and permits described in this table and the associated text) will be a
condition of effectiveness (see Main Grant Conditions, section G).
Contracts for Electricity Connection and Backup: These contracts between CFE and the Cogeneration
Company will include: (i) interconnection agreement; (ii) excess energy agreement; (iii) distribution
agreement; and (iv) backup agreement. This will cover connection to the distribution grid, wheeling
(transportation), backup in case of temporary failure of the LFG power plant and sale of excess power to
the grid. The standard formats for the contracts have been obtained and CFE has been consulted
concerning the exact tariff to be charged for these services.
Power Purchase Agreements: These agreements will be made between the Cogeneration Company and the
consumers. They will include: (i) commitment of capacity for and purchase and sale of electric power; (ii)
commencement date; (iii) obligations of the producer prior to providing capacity; (iv) testing; (v)
obligations of the producer after the commerical operation date; (vi) obligations of the purchaser; (vii)
prices, payments and billing; (viii) metering; (ix) risk mitigation measures; (x) representations and
warranties; (xi) liability and indemnification; (xii) force majeure; (xiii) noticies; (xiv) insurance; and (xv)
assignment, transfer of the power plant, change in producers corporate structure.
Landfill Gas Supply Agreement: This is a contract between SIMEPRODESO, the landfill owner and
therefore gas supplier, and the Cogeneration Company. The contract will include a detailed description of
the landfill, the installations to be developed, the length of tirne for exploitation and the cost (nominal) for
supply of the LFG. Although the GEF project is limited to the 44 ha filled cells, the SIMEPRODESO
landfill is expanding, and thus the LFG facility could be expanded to exploit the LFG in these new cells. It
should be made clear that any projects that would expand to these new cells are not part of GEF-funded
project. The conditions under which the rights to this gas will be granted, however, will be included in the
contracts of the GEF project in order to provide an incentive for the Strategic Partner to perform well and
to maintain interest in the GEF project for its lifetime.
Land Rental Agreement: This is a contract between SIMEPRODESO and the Cogeneration Company. It
will specify details of the use of the land and the time period of the rental.
Contractfor technical project design, construction and operation of the LFG facility and operator
training: This will specify the facilities to be built, the terms under which the Strategic Partner will operate
- 30 -



the plant, and the training required. The Strategic Partner will be expected to operate the plant for the first
5 years of the project and share the responsibility SIMEPRODESO after that. The exact time period, roles
of the partners in the Cogeneration Company in operation, and other terms will be included in the bidding
documents and finalized during contract negotiation.
Preparation of Contracts and Agreements: The proposed details of the structure of the Cogeneration
Company including the contents of the contracts will be incorporated in a draft MOU to be presented as
part of the bidding documents for the selection of the Strategic Partner and finalized after award of the bid.
The development of draft contracts is being done by SIMEPRODESO with the help of a Mexican business
consultant and a lawyer with experience in structuring Cogeneration Companies, public-private
partnerships and international joint ventures. The Municipality of Monterrey, Servicios de Agua y
Drenaje, Metrorrey, CFE and CRE are being consulted during this process of developing the contracts.
The draft contracts have been reviewed by the Bank legal and financial experts and it has been agreed that
SIMEPRODESO will use the opportunity of a bidding conference with the prospective bidders to consider
modifications and amendments to the contracts. At that time, the Bank may offer additional suggestions to
the texts, which would subsequently need to be approved by the Bank as a condition of effectiveness (See
Main Grant Conditions, section G.)
Incentives for Continued Involvement of the Strategic Partner
To insure continued involvement by the Strategic Partner, the project has many built-in incentives.
*   After the first five years the Strategic Partner will only have recovered its capital investment. They
will need to remain in the project in order to receive the return on their investment.
X   They have operational obligations throughout the lifetime of the project.
X   Contingent on their continued involvement and satisfactory performance, they will be offered the
opportunity to participate in projects to expand the gas extraction system to newly filled cells at the
SIMEPRODESO landfill.
* Contractual penalties will be applied in the event of an early departure from the project.
The project is also safeguarded against major operational problems in the event of early departure of the
Strategic Partner. This is because SIMEPRODESO will have the capacity to operate the plant after 5
years.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The recipient is BANOBRAS, SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO are the implementing agencies
4.2 Project management:
SIMEPRODESO will appoint project implementation staff to implement the first component within their
Directorate of Technology and Development. The staff will include a landfill gas specialist, financial
management specialist, accounting and procurement specialists. For implementation of the other
components, the project implementation staff at SEDESOL will include a landfill gas specialist, a
procurement specialist. Implementation staff at SIMvEPRODESO and SEDESOL, including appointment
of an individual procurement consultant by SIMEPRODESO in order to organize its record keeping as a
condition of effectiveness (see Main Grant Conditions, section G). A mid term review is scheduled for 24
months after the Effective Date. It will be carried out jointly with the UMS and the Bank and will review
the progress of the project and the attainment of its objectives on the basis of a report containing: (i)
integrated summary of the monitoring and evaluation activities (see Annex 1 for reporting requirements)
and (ii) a summary of the progress achieved in the carrying out of the project including the implementation
of the EMP, and assessment of the performance of the Cogeneration Company to be used in
- 31 -



implementation of the demonstration project. The report will be produced 20 months after the Effective
Date.
4.3 Procurement issues:
International Competitive Bid for Strategic Partner
The Strategic Partner that will design, build, operate the LFG facility (including the collection system,
power plant and electrical connections as described in the technical section of the Summary Analysis and
specified in the Joint Venture Agreement of the Cogeneration Company) and provide training and finance
will be procured through an international competitive bidding (ICB) process in accordance with section II
of the Guidelines. The goods, works and services required shall be procured in accordance with the
applicable procedures of the Strategic Partner. The GEF grant will cover US $4.93 million of the
estimated $11.5 million total cost of the LFG facility.
SIMEPRODESO is organizing the bid. The bidding process includes prequalification followed by bidding.
The bidders have been prequalified based on their experience in design, construction and operation of LFG
facilities, their personnel and financing capabilities. The prequalified companies will be invited to bid and
the award given based on the bidder that will provide the highest profit stream for SIMEPRODESO
(highest net present value). Under a USTDA grant, the prequalification and bidding documents are being
prepared by SIMEPRODESO with the assistance of a consultant with experience in procurement for LFG
projects. In addition, the consultant along with the task team have provideg advice during prequalification
and bid evaluation. All documents were reviewed by the task team and cleared by the Regional
Procurement Advisors for Latin America and the Caribbean.
General Approach
The Strategic Partner will be a major driving force in the project and will influence the structure of the deal
in important ways. The procurement process will provide enough flexibility in the finalization of the
arrangements in order to accommodate the demands of the Strategic Partner while having a clearly defined
structure that allows for fair and effective competition. To this end, a description of the proposed
Cogeneration Company structure with the relevant aspects of the associated permits and contracts were
provided in the prequalification documents. In the bidding documents the bidders will be provided with a
draft incorporation agreements, draft contracts, letters of interest for the proposed members of the
Cogeneration Company and other arrangements. The relevant technical and financial information
necessary for the bidders to analyze and bid the project will also be provided.
This information will include:
*  Description of works with design and performance specifications.
*   Gas generation model with all assumptions.
*   Tariff charge and quantity of electricity to be sold to each consumer.
*   Other costs such as wheeling, transport and backup.
*   Range and conditions of profit sharing arrangements allowed.
*  Minimum equity financing allowed.
*  A preformatted spreadsheet for making all calculations.
The bidders will be given an opportunity to comment on the contents of the bidding package and ask
questions. They will then bid on this basis and provide the following information in the bid:
*   Gas generation model output: They will be allowed to change certain assumptions in the model and
- 32 -



will be expected to guarantee these. (i.e. they can change their capture efficiency from 70 to 75% and
they will have to guarantee this under contract).
*   Investment costs: Within the parameters of the design description and specifications they will come up
with the costs for design and construction of the plant.
*   Profit sharing setup: Within prestated restrictions they will have to specify how the profits will be
shared in the first five years.
*   Capacity to raise financing and proof of access to funds.
*   From this information the bidder will be required to fill in a preformatted spreadsheet and calculate the
net present value of the profit stream of SIMEPRODESO. This will be the bidding item with the
award going to the highest bid. After selection of the Strategic Partner modifications to the contracts
will be negotiated.
Status of Process
The procurement schedule is shown below. The prequalification process has been completed and the
bidding documents have been prepared and finalized by the Bank. The bidding documents will be sent to
the prequalified firms immediately after Board Approval.
Schedule for Procurement of Strategic Partner
8/20/00:             Published Invitation to Submit Letters of Interest in Development Business, trade
journals and in Mexico.
1/11/01:             Sent prequalification documents to those that submitted letters of interest.
Publish invitation to prequalify in Development Business and in Mexico.
2/16/01:             Received prequalification docunents from 10 companies.
2/16/01-3/30/01:     Prequalified bidders.
4/18/01:             Send invitation to bid and bidding documents to prequalified firms.
7/01/01:             Bids received from prequalified finms.
7/01/01-8/01/01:     Evaluate bids.
08/20/01:                   Award contract.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Overafl
A certified Financial Management Specialist supervised the assessment carried out by a consultant, and
agreed to certify the project as 4-B, ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements" This was based on the fact
that while systems specific for this project have not been established, the project will be implemented under
previously established institutional financial management arrangements in SEDESOL and
SIMEPRODESO.
It was concluded that both SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO, helped by BANOBRAS, are currently
prepared to implement the Project but all systems need to be customised, and strengthened as necessary, to
specifically handle the above mentioned project. The Project Implementation Staff (PIS) in both executing
agencies currently include the necessary staff and are operational with a financial management system
which meets minimum Bank financial management requirements. However, they are not fully satisfactory
because they do not have in place an adequate project financial management module that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMRs) as required by
the Bank for PMR-based disbursements (under the Financial Management Initiative). Thus, the financial
management arrangements for the activities of SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO are operational and will
- 33 -



be appropriate for the Project, but they need an specific system for project management. SEDESOL,
SIMEPRODESO and BANOBRAS must: (i) prepare a Financial Management Guidebook and (ii)
customize the existing information systems to suit this operation and the agreed action plan for PMR Based
Reporting (see Section G)
SIMEPRODESO
Financial Management. The existing MIS and financial management systerns were reviewed in detail (i.e.
Integrated Accounting system or COI) and found to be adequate to control entities budget codes as well as
project operations but these systems do not produce information in the format of project management
reports (PMRs). There will be two financial management systems, one at SIMEPRODESO and one at
SEDESOL. BANOBRAS' MIS is already in place and has been used in other projects). Although
SIMEPRODESO is ready to manage the funds of the project, the MIS should be slightly adjusted to allow
for the flow of financial data, physical indicators and procurement information, which includes not only the
production of PMRs but more important, the preparation of SOEs and their supporting documentation. A
Financial Management Guidebook (FMGb) will be prepared, separately or in conjunction with the
preparation of the FMGb for SEDESOL.
Internal Control System and auditing. SIMEPRODESO has in place acceptable intemal control
arrangements, however it is incomplete because the lack of the internal audit function. The institution in
annually audited by external auditors (Leal Tijerina y Asociados S.C. associated with VHI Jeffreys Henry
International). The same as for SEDESOL existing internal control arrangements must be adjusted to cover
additional requirements for this Project, essentially to separate/identify/control specific project operations
(i.e. disbursements related to the Plant - Component A). The audit review will be carried out by external
auditors (a private firm), based on satisfactory terms of reference (TOR) and in line with the existing MET.
The audit report will be submitted to the Bank within the next six months after each audited year. A
consolidated audit report will be prepared and submitted to the Bank. SECODAM and BANOBRAS will
coordinate with SIMEPRODE these annual audits, which will include an opinion on the internal controls,
transactions, bank accounts, financial statements of the project and on the compliance on norms and
regulations (i.e. legal agreements).
SEDESOL
Financial Management. The existing MIS and systems (for instance the accounting and budgetary systems)
were reviewed specifically for this project (Subsecretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Vivienda, Direcci6n
General de Infraestructura y Equipamiento) and for other Bank projects (i.e. Direccion de Integraci6n y
Seguimiento de programas). The financial management arrangements are adequate to control the national
budget codes as well as the Bank's loan categories and project components but they do not produce
information in the format of project management reports (PMRs).
SEDESOL has prepared a comprehensive chart of accounts, which was suitable for the needs of previous
Bank projects but this new project will produce PMRs acceptable to the Bank, therefore, the management
information system should be adjusted to allow for the flow of financial data, physical indicators and
procurement information. At negotiations. it was agreed that as condition of effectiveness: (a)
SIMEPRODESO's financial management specialist, accounting specialist, and procurement specialist
would have been appointed: and (b) SEDESOL's procurement specialist would have been appointed. A
Financial Management Guidebook (FMGb) will be prepared separately or in conjunction with the
preparation of other project documents. guides and manuals.
- 34 -



Internal Control System. SEDESOL has in place acceptable internal control system, which is
complemented with the audits carried out by the internal auditor (which reports to SECODAM). While
existing internal control arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank, they must be adjusted to satisfactorily
cover additional requirements for the Project, essentially to separate/identify/control specific project
operations (i.e. disbursements).
Auditing. The auditor is designated by and reports to SECODAM. The audit review is carried out in line
with Bank guidelines and procedures, and in accordance with the Technical Memorandum of
Understanding on Auditing (MET). SEDESOL is annually audited by its Internal Audit Department. For
this project this LAD will submit the annual independent financial audit report to the Bank no later than six
months after the end of each Secretariat's fiscal year. The Terms of Reference (TOR) of the audit are those
prepared by the SAI (based on the Bank TOR and guidelines) and considered satisfactory to the Bank. The
audit will include an opinion on the internal controls, transactions, bank accounts, financial statements of
the project and on the compliance on norms and regulations (i.e. legal agreements). A consolidated audit
report will be prepared and submitted to the Bank.
SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO
SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO will attend a Seminar on PMRs and follow-up discussions will take place
before project effectiveness. During negotiations the action plan prepared in coordination with
governmental officials was agreed. SEDESOL and SIMEPRODE (with support from BANOBRAS) will
prepare quarterly PMRs but, because the characteristics of the components in which SIMEPRODE
participates, this institution will prepare simplified PMRs. These reports will no support project
disbursements as the project will disburse following traditional procedures such as SOEs, direct payments
and special commitments. The project cannot currently provide quarterly PMRs but will, on the basis of an
action plan agreed with the borrower, be able to do so within the first six months (June 30, 2002)
(SIMEPRODESO) and the first year (December 31, 2002) (SEDESOL) after project effectiveness.
Flow of funds.
All funds will be transferred from the GEF to BANOBRAS. A single special account in US dollars with
an authorized allocation of US $550,000 will be established for the project in BANOBRAS. Funds will be
earmarked for specified recipients and purposes. The funds under components B-D will be earmarked for
SEDESOL for implementation of the the activities under that component. The funds under Component E
will be used by both SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO and they will be earmarked accordingly. For
component A, BANOBRAS will reserve the right to disburse using direct payments. BANOBRAS will
enter into contractual agreements for transfer of the GEF grant funds between (a) BANOBRAS and
SIMEPRODESO on a non reimbursable basis and (b) BANOBRAS and SEDESOL on a non
reimbursable basis. The contracts will be finalized on or before April 16, 2001 and the signing of the
contracts will be a condition of effectiveness. (See Main Grant Conditions; Section G.)
Staffing
Based on discussions with BANOBRAS, SEDESOL and SIMEPRODE, it seems that there is a good
financial management team although the staff of both executing agencies will not be dedicated full time to
project financial management because the characteristics of the project. The FMGb must include an
organisational chart, job descriptions and so on to clearly indicate the staff assigned to/and responsible for
project financial management. The SIMEPRODESO Project Implementation Staff will, in addition to a
landfill gas specialist, include at all times during the execution of the project, a financial management
specialist, an accounting specialist and a procurement specialist. The SEDESOL Project Implementation
Staff will at all times during the execution of the project include a landfill gas specialist and a procurement
- 35 -



specialist. SEDESOL already has internal staff and procedures to deal with the financial aspects of the
project in place.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Environmental Assessment Process and Main Conclusions
An environmental assessment for the Salinas Victoria LFG facility was finalized on September 19, 2000
and approved by the Bank on December 6, 2000. As a result of the assessment, an "Environmental
Management Plan" (EMP), an instrument that details i) the measures to be taken during implementation
and operation of the project to eliminate or offset adverse environmental impacts, or to reduce them to
acceptable levels; and ii) the actions needed implement these measures, was drafted. The draft (shown in
Annex 11) was finalized during negotiations. As a condition of disbursement, the EMP will be
incorporated into signed contracts of the Cogeneration Company that specify the procedures for
implementation of the EMP (as described in Annex 11) and the responsible parties (see Main Grant
Conditions, section G).
The environmental assessment revealed that, as the plant will reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, as well
as volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from the landfill, the major impacts of the project will be beneficial
to the environment. Some minor negative impacts will also occur as a result of the project. An
environmental management plan (Annex 11) was also developed by an engineering consulting firm (SCS
Engineers, USA) with the participation of the executing agency (SIMEPRODESO) to mitigate these
problems. The EMP will be implemented by SIMEPRODESO and the Strategic Partner and will be
specified in the grant agreements, bidding documents and contractual agreements of the Cogeneration
Company. The effects of the project are described in more detail below.
Effects of Landfill Gas Plant Construction
Global warmine gas emissions: The LFG plant to be constructed in Salinas Victoria will result in the
capture of 214 million cubic meters of methane (a potent greenhouse gas). In addition, the energy produced
by the plant will substitute for other energy sources that use fossil fuels, thus reducing the emission of
global warming gases from these sources. If successful, the replication strategy will catalyze the
construction of more plants in Mexico. The regional dissemination component of the project is intended to
have a similar effect in other Latin American countries.
Other pollutant emissions: In addition to the methane, the LFG mixture that will be combusted for power
generation contains volatile organic compounds (VOCs). If VOCs are allowed to be released directly from
a landfill they can be hazardous to humans and contribute to low-level ozone formation, a precursor to
smog. The power plant will burn these VOCs and thus reduce their emission and LFG combustion will
also reduce odors associated with LFG. To maximize these environmental benefits, the plant will have a
flare to combust captured LFG that is not combusted during production of electricity.
The internal combustion engines used in the power plant will produce small volumes of NOx (a
smog-forming gas) and CO (a toxic gas). The reduction in emissions of VOCs from the combustion of
LFG and the reduced emissions of smog-forming compounds from the fossil fuel energy sources that the
LFG energy substitutes for, will more than offset the impacts of the smog-forming compounds produced by
the engines and flare. The engine emissions will be mitigated through requirements (specified in the bidding
documents) for low emission engines. These emissions will be in compliance with World Bank guidelines.
In addition, the engine emissions will be monitored for compliance with local environmental laws as
- 36 -



described in the EMP (Annex 11). To prevent increased emissions due to poor engine performance, it will
be required that the engines be operated and maintained in accordance with the manufacturers
specifications.
Explosion risk: The high methane content in LFG makes the gas potentially explosive when mixed with
air. As the LFG plant will destroy a large proportion of the methane from the landfill under controlled
conditions, the explosion risk on or near the landfill itself will be reduced. There will be some increased
risk of explosion near the equipment used for the conveyance, pressurization and delivery of LFG to the
engine. This risk is minimized by locating the compressors outdoors. An alarm system that detects
methane leaks will be installed near the indoor equipment.
Liquid Wastes: The internal combustion engines produce waste oil and coolant that must be disposed of
properly. Both of these wastes will be brought to a government approved hazardous waste treatment
facility already used by SIMEPRODESO for similar wastes. Water that condenses in the gas collection
system is somewhat similar in content to the landfill leachate and therefore can contain low concentrations
of heavy metals and hydrocarbons. The condensate will be collected and as is currently done with the
leachate, recirculated into the landfill. Given the dry conditions, the landfill will be able to absorb this
excess water without any danger of migration or runoff and there is expected to be no affect on the
moisture content of the waste.
Noise: As the proposed site of the plant is not adjacent to neighbors, noise from the engines is expected to
be only an occupational safety problem for workers at the plant. To mitigate effects of noise employees
will be required to use proper ear protection and the engine house will be located away from neighbors and
constructed to reduce noise outside the building.
Construction-related effects: During construction there will be waste produced from the water used at the
construction facilities and from the scrap construction materials. Construction activities will also increase
noise, the suspension of particulates and vehicular emissions at the site. The bidding documents will
specify that proper waste management practices be used during construction. In addition, construction
practices that mitigate noise and pollution will be required.
Loss of Flora: The construction of the power plant and collection system will impact no flora as the areas
proposed for construction currently are not vegetated.
Landfill Management Issues
Leachate control: The LFG plant will not increase the likelihood of groundwater contamination by
leachate. With the high rates of evapotranspiration and low precipitation at the site, very little leachate is
produced. Under these dry conditions, the small amount of leachate is pumped periodically and
recirculated into the landfill. This practice has been adequate and will continue.
Additionally, SIMEPRODESO monitors the groundwater monthly in compliance with Mexican
environmental laws. Under this project these groundwater monitoring practices will continue.
Methane migration: The migration of methane from landfills is an important issue because methane can
diffuse into enclosed rooms in nearby houses and buildings and cause an explosion hazard. The project
will reduce this risk through the collection and combustion of the LFG. In addition, because
SIMEPRODESO currently does not monitor for methane migration, the environmental management plan
requires a monitoring system to be put into place. Similar monitoring systems are effective at landfills in
the US with more extensive neighboring communities than that found at the SIMEPRODESO landfill.
- 37 -



Occupational Health and Safety Issues
The criteria for selection of the Strategic Partner who will be responsible for construction, operation and
training activities will include an evaluation of the companies environmental and safety record. Within the
contractual agreements of the Cogeneration Company occupational and safety practices based on
international standards will be specified.
Siting of Plant
The SIMEPRODESO landfill of 212 hectares is totally uninhabited. There are no dwellers, scavengers or
any other population living at the site. The plant itself will be located within a 44 hectare cell of the
labdfill. The landfill is located in a relatively unpopulated area. These conditions were confirmed by the
Environmental Impact Assessment and direct visits to the site. Immediate neighbors include several
ranches, a junk yard and a squatter community. These neighbors will benefit from the reduced emissions
and reduction in explosion risks associated with the project. The filled landfill cell (the portion of the
landfill from which gas will be extracted) borders a road. The power plant will be located on the landfill in
an area that borders uninhabited private land. This location will limit the potential effects of construction
and operation on the local inhabitants.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The draft EMP was cleared by the Bank on March 30, 2001. A final version was presented on April 5,
2001 and cleared during negotiations, on April 6, 2001. The EMP outlines procedures to properly address
the issues mentioned in section 5.1. It was developed in collaboration with engineering specialists in LFG
and modeled after practices in the US. It is adequate for mitigating the negative environmental effects of
the project and complies with OP4.01. The effects of the project do not trigger any other Bank Safeguard
Policies.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: September 19, 2000
An environmental assessment for the Salinas Victoria LFG facility was finalized on September 19, 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The plant will be located on an existing landfill, away from any neighbors. The negative environmental
effects and associated mitigation measures affect the operation of the landfill and property and not the
neighboring property or people. Therefore, there are no groups that, from an environmental or social
perspective, will be affected by the project. The groups that will be indirectly affected by the project
through reduced landfill emissions and public electricity prices, include the 10,000 people living within the
5 km radius of the landfill and the Salinas Victoria population. These groups were given access to the
environmental assessment through local libraries.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Annual Environmental Summary
The environmental performance of the plant will be tracked during the project and summarized in annual
reports to be submitted by December 31st of each year of project implementation, starting December 31st,
2001, that include the following indicators: i) methane captured; ii) methane used for electricity; iii)
methane flared; iv) results of any engine emissions tests; v) engine maintenance records as compared to
manufacturers suggestions; vi) engine waste oil and coolant handling records; vii) complaints from
- 38 -



neighbors by type (noise, emissions, other); viii) methane leaks detected on methane conveyance system
near or in engine house; and ix) underground methane concentrations on perimeter of landfill. This report
will be produced annually after plant is operational.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Overview
There are several social issues of potential concern. These concerns have been addressed in a social
analysis contracted during project preparation, dated October 2000 and reviewed by the Bank and deemed
to be satisfactory. The social analysis can be split into two areas: that which apply to the Salinas Victoria
project and that which apply to future replication. The analysis of the Monterrey project was done
specifically for project design and have been taken into account. The analysis on the replication was
performed in preparation for the replication strategy that will be developed as part of the project. The
actual implementation of the replication strategy, along with its associated social plans, will be done by the
Government of Mexico and is out of the scope of the project.
Salinas Victoria Landfill Gas Project
Political and Social Issues
The political and social barriers of potential concern to LFG projects involve those groups whose
livelihoods depend on the collection and disposal of solid waste (contractors, municipalities and
scavengers), the trade unions in the electric industry and the local community. In the case of the project site
in Salinas Victoria, there are no scavengers and the municipalities and entities involved with solid waste
collection and disposal openly support the project and will collaborate during preparation and
implementation. The electricity sector trade unions include Sindicato Mexicano de Electricistas (SME) and
Sindicato Unico de Trabajadores Electricistas de la Repuiblica Mexicana (SUTERM). These trade unions
are involved with the national debate on the privatization of the electricity sector. SME has taken a
position against privatization and SUTERM's position is more moderate, focusing on issues such as
limiting the effects of the privatization process on labor. While the LFG project in Salinas Victoria and in
other future sites would involve at least some private participation, the small magnitude of power produced
in these projects make them a low priority for the labor unions and therefore will not create a barrier for
project implementation. In addition, because the project in Salinas Victoria will be done on existing landfill
and will involve only rninor negative environmental effects and mostly positive effects, the resistance from
the population of Salinas Victoria is unlikely to be a barrier.
Scavenger Issues: As the Social Assessment confirmed, there are no scavengers at the Salinas Victoria site
. The landfill, which started operation in 1991, was developed as a secure sanitary landfill on a greenfield
site and thus scavengers were never present at the site. The LFG plant will be located on the landfill which
is owned by SIMEPRODESO and has no one living on it. SIMEPRODESO has provided to the Bank
evidence of its ownership of the site. There will be no land acquisition as a result of the project. The
project itself will be located in approxiametely one acre out of the 44 h@ site consisting of the closed
landfill section within the 212 h@ landfill owned by SIMEPRODESO. The SIMEPRODESO has
provided to the Bank evidence of the ownership of the 212 h@ site. The LFG project will thus not cause
any involuntary resettlement of people living in the vicinity of the site or threaten their livelihoods.
Effects on Local Population
The landfill is surrounded by a local population of approximately 10,000 inhabitants (5 km. radius). The
human activity directly surrounding the landfill includes several ranches, a junk yard and a community of
- 39 -



squatters. The filled landfill cell borders a road and the proposed site of the power plant borders
uninhabited private property. As there are no settlements or scavenging activities on the landfill site, no
resettlement will be required and the project will not threaten the livelihoods of the local population. The
main social benefits to the local population will be the reduced costs of electricity for public services and
subsequent increased availability of public funds. The project would provide environmental benefits to the
local population by eliminating the risk of explosions, reducing odor, and controlling emissions of volatile
organic compounds that are found in LFG. The neighbors located around the landfill site will yield
additional safety benefits through increased monitoring of methane migration (to mitigate any explosion
risks). The landfill currently does not monitor for methane migration and the project will require it.
Post-project Replication
As one of the project goals is to encourage post-project replication in landfills in Mexico, the social
analysis identified political and social barriers to replication and potential scavenger issues. The analysis
of the political and social barriers reached similar conclusions as that described above for the Salinas
Victoria Project.
Methodologies for analyzing and mitigating the impacts of future projects on scavengers were also
developed. Landfill gas projects are typically built on filled or partially filled landfills. Therefore in many
cases scavenger issues would be dealt with when the landfill was filled and secured and therefore are not a
concern to the Landfill Gas project. It is probable, however, that a LFG facility will be developed on an
open dump or a landfill that is partially filled but was not secured and still has scavangers or squatters
living on the site. In these cases, the landfill or a portion of the landfill will need to be filled and secured,
thus necessitating relocation.
In anticipation of this indirect effect of LFG projects on scavengers, the analysis looked at the effect of
landfill closure on scavenger communities in 5 small to medium sized cities: Puebla, Queretaro, Nuevo
Laredo, Piedras Negras, and Salinas Victoria. In addition, the case of Mexico City was also analyzed.
The procedures and programs used and their outcomes were assessed. The study concluded that, with the
exception of Mexico City, scavengers were adversely affected by the closure. The main reason for the
problems was an inadequate understanding of the socio-economic conditions and perspective of the
scavenger communities. The study recommended an analysis and consultation procedure that could be
used to identify the socio-economic problems of scavenger communities before future closures of landfills.
In addition, the study provided a detailed approach for the development and implementation of employment
programs for relocated scavenger communities. The results of this study along with the outcome of a
consultation workshop will be incorporated into the national replication strategy to be prepared during
project implementation. A worldwide study on LFG that will include the effects on scavengers will also be
performed as part of the Latin America dissemination component. The results of this study along with the
outcomes of a consultative workshop will provide a basis for inclusion of scavenger issues in the regional
dissemination materials and workshops.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As this is a demonstration project, replication of the project is a major goal and participation is essential.
The participation is outlined in the table below.
-40-



Preparation component component  component  component   component E
A         B          C          D           Project
Plant    Capacity   Regulatory   Regional    Management
design and   building    reforn   (LAC)
constructio                     disseminatio
n                               n
Primary stakeholders and
affected parties
SIMEPRODESO              COL   COL   COL                            COL           COL
SEDESOL                  COL   CON   COL   COL   COL                              COL
Municipality of Monterrey    CON   COL        CON
Metrorrey                CON        COL       CON
Servicios de Agua y      CON       COL        CON
Drenaje                                               .
Comision Reguladora de   CON        COL       CON
Energia (CRE)
Comision Federal de      CON       COL        CON
Electricidad (CFE)             _
Private sector partner for  CON    COL        CON
project
Local population in Salinas    IS
Victonia
Beneficiaries and affected
parties in
Mexico and Latin
America
landfill owners and                         CON/IS                CON/IS
operatorfs
potential private investors                  CON/IS                CON/IS
interested municipalities                   CON/IS                 CON/IS
and other govemment
entities
affected populations                          CON                   CON
NGO's                                          CON                  CON
general public                                  IS
Other
Bank experts             CON                                        CON
USEPA                                         CON                   CON
Academics                CON
Mexican govemment        CON         IS       COL        COL        COL
entities dealing with
greenhouse gases
UN organizations dealing    CON      IS
with greenhouse gases
COL=collaboration; CON=consultation; IS=information sharing
Primary stakeholders
Project preparation was done with the full participation of SIMEPRODESO, an autonomous public entity
involved with solid waste management in Salinas Victoria, and SEDESOL, the Social Development
Secretary in the federal government. During implementation SIMEPRODESO will take overall
administrative responsibility for component A. The private sector Strategic Partner will be in charge of the
plant design, construction and training responsibilities of this component. SEDESOL will take primary
responsibility for developing the materials and activities of the capacity building component (component
B). SEDESOL will also be responsible for the regulatory reform component (component C) and take
primary responsibility for the regional (LAC) dissemination component (component D).
- 41 -



The public entities (Municipality of Monterrey, Servicios de Agua y Drenaje de Monterrey, Metrorrey,
Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (CFE)) and private sector companies potentially involved with the
methane utilization plant in Salinas Victoria were consulted during project preparation. All have indicated
their interest in participation in the project. The Municipality of Monterrey was consulted in order to
discuss the electricity pricing and concerning their use of the power for street lighting in the city of
Monterrey. Similiarly, Metrorrey, the operating organization in charge of the subway in Monterrey, and
Servicios de Agua y Drenaje de Monterrey, a decentralized state entity in charge of the supply of potable
water, drains and sanitation in Monterrey, were consulted in order to discuss the electricity pricing and
their use of the power for the subway and water pumping operations respectively. CRE, the entity that
provides the required permits to private investors to install or import electric power was consulted
concerning the permitting requirements for the Cogeneration Company. CFE, the federal electrical
authority, was consulted to negotiate the connection, transport and backup fees for the electricity produced
by the SIMEPRODESO LFG facility. Private sector companies in Mexico and the United States were also
consulted in order to assess their suitability as, and willingness to be, a project partner. At negotiationsa it
was agreed that SEDESOL would carry out consulations with a wide range of public and private
stakeholders interested in solid waste and LFG matters, including the organization of workshops, in the
context of the design of a national replication strategv and that SIMEPRODESO would carry out periodic
consultations with all relevant project stakeholders, including inter alia, the local population around the
SIMEPRODESO site, municipal and local entities involved in solid waste management in Monterrey and
other relevant parties.
Beneficiaries and affected parties in Mexico and Latin America
The capacity building component and the regional (LAC) dissemination component are designed to
disseminate the results of the demonstration project to facilitate replication in Mexico and in Latin
America. In these components, government entities, private sector companies, and other groups in Mexico
and Latin America interested in LFG utilization will participate in the workshops, training courses,
twinning arrangements, internship programs and other programs associated with these components. NGO's
will also be consulted in consultative workshops for the development of the replication strategy (component
B) and the materials and workshops for regional dissemination (component D). As part of the capacity
building component (component B), tours, demonstrations and press releases will disseminate knowledge of
the project to the general public.
Other participants
During implementation of the capacity building and regional (LAC) dissemination components, the
USEPA's Landfill Methane Outreach Program, a voluntary program designed to provide technical and
project facilitation assistance to landfill owners and government agencies will be consulted by SEDESOL
to share experiences in developing outreach materials explaining the benefits of LFG capture and use.
They may also be consulted in the coordination of twinning arrangements with U.S. municipalities and
entities with experience using LFG technology, and to help develop tours and other public dissemination
activities for the demonstration project.
The UNDP has supported the development of the first communication to the UNFCCC. With
USEPA/USDOE assistance, the UMS has also prepared an assessment of vulnerabilities and updated the
GHG inventory. The project activities were coordinated with the work at the Mexican Office for
Greenhouse Gas Mitigation at NE (Instituto Nacional de Ecologia) which in turn corresponds with the
UNDP assistance in this field.
During project preparation, the project team has sought the advice of Bank colleagues, academics and
-42 -



engineering consultants with expertise in LFG management. At negotiations, agreement was reached that
during implementation, their suggestions and previous experience will be integrated into the analysis and
dissemination components of the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs will be invited to participate in consultation workshops for the development of the national
replication strategy (component B) and the development of the materials and workshops for regional
dissemination (component D).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The effects of reduced electricity costs, emissions and explosion risk as a result of the construction of the
LFG facility in Salinas Victoria are inherent to the profitability of the project and therefore will be the
responsibility of the Co-generation Company as specified in bidding documents and contracts between the
partners. The results of the studies and workshops on LFG projects and scavengers will be incorporated
into the national replication strategy. This strategy will be used by SEDESOL as a basis for replication of
LFG projects in Mexico.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The reduced cost of electricity will be monitored in the operational summary reports provided by
SIMEPRODESO. The emissions reductions from the plant and the explosion risks will be included as part
of the environmental monitoring. The assessment of the effect of LFG projects on scavengers will be
monitored by the completion of the workshops and the inclusion of the inputs on scavengers in the reports
and materials.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    A_pplicabl~ity
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   O Yes O No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See section 5.
- 43 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This GEF project is a continuation of the baseline project. Factors critical to the sustainability of the
project include:
i) The proposed technology (LFG collection from production wells for the purposes of power generation in
internal combustion engines) is well-proven elsewhere;
ii) The institutional structure of the demonstration project includes the formation of a public-private
partnership and a Cogeneration Company. Precedents for both arrangements can be found in Mexico.
Their application to a LFG will provide an excellent model for replication.
iii) The current regulation for solid waste management does not cover LFG issues. However, regulatory
reform is in the process of being formulated that would satisfactorily address construction and management
issues related to LFG. As part of the project a framework for more detailed inclusion of LFG issues in
Mexican legislation will facilitate future replication of the project;
iv) The financial analysis (see section 2 in Summary Analysis and Annex 4a) carried out for the
demonstration project shows that without GEF assistance, the project's financial rate of return is marginal.
However, with GEF involvement, the return is more attractive;
v) The institutional capacity of SIMEPRODESO has been tested during the operation of the sanitary
landfill (the second largest in Mexico). A financial capacity assessment of SIMEPRODESO indicated that
they satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements but do not have in place an adequate
project financial management system for PMR-Based disbursements. An action plan including details of
accounting, auditing arrangements, reporting, flow of funds and management information system has been
formulated with the client to address the financial issues. A procurement capacity assessment prescribed
an action plan to assist SIMEPRODESO during the project and build their capacity. This plan will be
followed during project implementation. In addition, SIMEPRODESO's management and operational
capacity for the LFG plant will be further strengthened as part of the project through the involvement of a
private sector partner with experience in LFG management. Given the past management record and the
proposed additional support, the institutional capacity supports the sustainability of the project.
vi) From the perspective of replication of the demonstration project, the experience of project preparation
was very encouraging. The prefeasibility study found many potential sites for development of LFG
projects in Mexico and a recent draft regional study on LFG has indicated that there are many potential
sites in Latin America. As evidenced by the success of recent workshops on LFG in Mexico and
SEDESOL's commitment to this issue, there is great interest at the federal and local level for LFG projects
in Mexico and therefore replication of the demonstration project. Additionally, the project itself is designed
to encourage replication. The project is specifically designed to remove barriers to replication (including
institutional and technical capacity restraints, project risk, and financing and financial barriers) through
the demonstration project, dissemination activities, capacity building activities and policy and regulatory
studies. The project will also develop mechanisms to encourage replication through the replication strategy
for Mexico and worldwide study to be completed for application to Latin America. The later two studies
will identify the need for, types of and utility of different financing mechanisms (such as the emerging
Carbon Trade) for future projects.
vii) Legal Risks. From a legal perspective, the project preparation activities have resulted in commitments
reflected in the legal agreement and to be entered by the cogeneration company (Strategic Partner and
SIMEPRODESO) to ensure Bank consent before any of its obligations or assets are transferred in whole or in part.
Assurances have also been received that the legal form, ownership or control of the Cogeneration Company
-44 -



should not have changed from that agreed to in the Incorporation Agreements, so as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of SIMPRODESO to perform any ot its responsibilities under the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Demonstration project provides a good      M         Engineering feasibility study, experienced
model for replication.                              private sector partner, well researched
institutional structure prepared by experienced
staff at SIMEPRODESO and the Bank.
Sufficient Mexican government and          N        Dissemination materials prepared by
private sector interest in dissemination            international consultant, discussions with
activities.                                          SEDESOL.
Local and federal govemnment interest in   N        Discussions with SEDESOL, creation of office
developing programs to support LFG                   of Landfill Gas Management at SEDESOL.
development.
Adequate non-GEF financing mechanisms      S        National Replication Strategy and worldwide
for future replication are identified.               study on LFG will address this as part of the
project.
Private sector interest in LFG projects in  M        Discussions with industry consultants and
Mexico.                                              company representatives.
Dissemination and training programs are    S        Preparation of dissemination materials by
effective at reducing barriers to                   experienced international consultant, results of
replication in Mexico.                               demonstration project incorporated into
materials, preparation of national replication
strategy to identify issues important to
replication.
Political interest in regulatory reform in  M        Discussions with SEDESOL, incorporation of
Mexico.                                              reforms into proposed legislation.
Regional (LAC) government and private      M         Dissemination materials prepared by
sector interest in the dissemination                 experienced international consultant and
activities.                                          consultative workshop.
Regional (LAC) government interest in      M         Discussions with Bank staff working on LFG in
developing programs to support LFG                   LAC.
development.
Private sector interest in LFG projects in  M        Discussions with Bank staff and industry
LAC.                                                 consultants working in LAC.
-45-



Dissemination and training programs are    S         Incorporation of lessons from demonstration
effective at reducing barriers to                    project and results of consultation workshop in
replication in LAC.                                  dissemination and training materials.
From Components to Outputs
Landfill gas production at estimated       M         Engineering feasibility study and experienced
levels.                                             private sector partner.
High tariffs charged by CFE maintained.    M         Contractual arrangements with consumers,
quick payback period for capital investment, use
of grant financing to insure project viability.
Payment by electricity consumers.          S         Research consumer payment records, 6-12
month bond provided by consumers for
payments, state guarantees, opportunity to
obtain other consumers.
Continued support from CRE and CFE         M         Continued discussions with CFE and CRE.
for project.
Continued commitment by                    N        Project ownership demonstrated by
SIMEPRODESO to project.                              SIMEPRODESO, commitment to project
implementation responsibilities, incentives for
project benefits.
Private sector interest in bidding on      M         Discussions with potential bidders and use of
project.                                            industry consultants in bidding process.
Sufficient coordination and interest in    M         Involvement of USEPA Landfill Methane
developing twinning arrangements.                    Outreach Program.
Continued commitment to project by         M         Financial contribution by SEDESOL for
SEDESOL.                                             project.
Qualified labor available for project      N         Assessment of experience from previous
management component.                                projects in Mexico.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
- 46 -



G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A. The Recipient (BANOBRAS) will enter into contractual agreements for the transfer of GEF trust funds
to: (a) SIMEPRODESO on a non reimbursable basis for an amount of (SDR4,046,000 equivalent) and (b)
SEDESOL on a non reimbursable basis, for an amount of (SDR 954,000 equivalent) (as described under
"Flow of Funds" in Section C4).
B. Establishment and operation of the Cogeneration Company (including signing the Incorporation
Agreements described under the "Framework of the Company" in Section E4), all in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
C. SIMEPRODESO will furnish to the Bank a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable
to the Bank, showing that the Incorporation Agreements have been duly authorized or signed by, and
executed and delivered by SIMEPRODESO and the Shareholders, and are legally binding upon
SIMEPRODESO and the Shareholders, in accordance with their terms.
D. The appointment of a procurement specialist by SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO's; the appointment of
a financial management specialist, accounting specialist, and a procurement specialist (Section E 4.2).
E. SEDESOL, SIMEPRODESO and BANOBRAS must establish their financial management system in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
F.  The draft contracts will be reviewed during a bidding conference with the prospective bidders to
consider modifications and amendments to the contracts. At that time, the Bank may offer additional
suggestions to the texts.
Disbursement Conditions
Disbursement of the Grant funds (under Category (4)) will be conditional upon: Incorporation of the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) into signed contracts for the establishment of the Cogeneration
Company, including institutional responsibilities for the implementation of the EMP (as described in Annex
11).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Other Covenants.
The Joint Venture Agreement will include provisions ensuring that SIMEPRODESO shall cause the
Cogeneration Company to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice, and carry out its operations and
conduct its affairs with sound adminsitrative, financial, environmental and social practices under the
supervision of qualified management and competent staff and should operate and maintain plant and
equipment promptly as needed and under sound engineering, financial, environmental and social practices.
Retroactive financing under Category (5), up to an amount of SDR 40,000 equivalent, will be
reimbursed, for expenditures incurred up to 12 months before the signing of the grant agreement but after
April 2, 2001.
- 47 -



Legal Covenants
A. Obtain and maintain Cogeneration Permit
B. Sign and implement CFE Agreements and other operational agreements to allow the Cogeneration
company to generate and provide electricity to eligible users.
C. Document and submit all reports as described in Annex 1, implement the EMP and other monitoring
indicators indicated in the Plan.
D. Carry out the project in accordance with Federal and State Environmental Laws and regulationswithin
the site owned by SIMEPRODESO and not requiring acquisition of land and or resettlement of population.
E. Submit annually to the Bank audit reports by SvIMEPRODESO and SEDESOL that include a review of
the procurement record keeping and filing system (see "Procurement Capacity Assessment" in Annex 6).
F. Prepare and furnish to the Bank, on or about twenty months after the Effective Date, a report in a
format satisfactory to the Bank, (i) integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities; and
(ii) on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project, including the implementation of the EMP, an
assessment of the performance of the Cogeneration Company under the Incorporation Agreements, the
Operational Agreements, and the CFE Agreements; an evaluation of the delivery of service provided by the
LFG power plant, including the tariff structure charged under the Power Purchase Agreements.
G. On or about twenty-four months after the Effective Date, carry out, jointly with the UMS and the Bank
a mid-term review of the progress of the Project and the attainment of its objectives on the basis of the
report referred to in paragraph (F) of this Section, and take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives.
H. The procurement action plan (as specified under the "Procurement Capacity Assessment" in Annex 6)
will be prepared and implemented..
I. A monitoring and evaluation plan (including the reporting requirements in Annex 1) will be undertaken.
J. Implement an action plan to produce PMRs by SIMEPRODESO (by June 30, 2002) and by SEDESOL
by December 31st, 2002).
K. The monitoring indicators in Annex One have been agreed to and will be attached to the implementation
letter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
IZ 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
F 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
- 48 -



quality.
C: 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1G 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
>    &3bti<'-'--iUmrU
Walter Vergara                     Danny M. Leipziger                 Olivier Lafourcade
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Country Manager
-49-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MEXICO: Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
KloSrac   of     yes                                                &            1tIaA:                   tions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Institutional development.    Improved capacity of local and    Sector Work (World Bank).   Macroeconomic stability.
national institutions.
Decentralization of environmental Increase in the number of  Sector Work (World Bank).      Political acceptance.
management.                   environmental projects initiated
by local institutions.
Improved cost recovery of     Improved cost recovery in      Sector Work (World Bank).
environmental services.       environmental service sectors.
- 50 -



GEF Operational Program:
Operational Program 6:        Increase in the amount of     SEDESOL and CFE reports.      Government remains committed
Promoting the Adoption of     electricity supplied by LFG                                 to promoting the adoption of
Renewable Energy by Removing  projects in Mexico.                                         renewable energy and reducing
Barriers and Reducing                                                                     greenhouse gas emissions.
Implementation Costs.
Decreased methane emissions by Greenhouse gas emission
landfills relative to baseline  inventories (Mexican Office for
situation with no LFG projects.   Greenhouse Gas Mitigation at
Instituto Nacional de Ecologia).
- 51 -



nHR@ru10                                                                                C
Global Objective:            Outcome / Impact             Project reports:             (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Proiect DeveloDment Obiective:  Landfill gas capture and use  Quarterly Operational Summary  Local and federal Government
Successful demonstration of LFG  facility proven to be technically,  Reports (SIMEPRODESO).    interest in programs to support
capture and use facility and  institutionally and financially                          LFG development continue after
reduction of barriers to    feasible within the Mexican                                project.
replication.                 context by PY4.
Number of potential participants  Workshop participant list, and    Landfill gas projects are
in LFG projects in Mexico to    distribution list for dissemination financially feasible in Mexico
whom technical, institutional and of materials (SEDESOL).  under non-GEF financing
managerial knowledge on LFG                               mechanisms.
were made available by PY4.
The technical, institutional and
financial experience can be
applied successfully to future
projects in Mexico.
Study on landfill gas       Final report.                Findings disclosed and discussed
management issues completed.                              with key stakeholders.
Increased Mexican state and  Follow-up surveys on activities of Landfill gas projects are
federal government programs for government workshop      financially feasible in Latin
support of LFG facility      participants 3(SEDESOL).     America under non-GEF
development during the five years                        financing mechanisms.
following project launch.
Landfill gas projects are
institutionally, technically and
financially feasible in other Latin
American countries.
Increase in the number of planned Follow-up surveys on activities of
LFG projects in Mexico during   government workshop
the five years following project  participants 3(SEDESOL).
launch.
Number of potential participants  Workshop participant list,
in LFG projects in Latin America newsletter distribution lists, and
to whom technical, institutional  website visitation count
and managerial knowledge on    (SEDESOL).
LFG were made available by
PY4.
- 52 -



. ,: :  :---  'Key PO"... . 
K$lrcyotIfv   :                                           Monitd.m  & EvaIuton           Cu. 
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1.0 Landfill gas facility    1.1 Capture system including    Design and Construction    Demonstration project provides a
successfully collecting LFG,  collection system, treatment plant Summary Report'        good model for replication.
producing energy and selling  and flare in place by mid PY2.   (SIMEPRODESO), Bank
electricity.                                              supervision reports (World
Bank).
1.2 Power plant with electrical  Design and Construction
connection to CFE grid       Summary Report4
constructed by mid PY2.      (SIMEPRODESO), Bank
supervision reports (World
Bank).
1.3 At least 54 million cubic  Quarterly Operational Summary
meters of methane collected and  Reports (SIMEPRODESO).
destroyed by end of PY4.
1.4 At least 155,000 MWh of    Quarterly Operational Summary
electricity produced by end of    Reports (SIMEPRODESO).
PY4.
1.5 At least 95% of energy
produced sold to members of  Quarterly Operational Sunmary
Cogeneration Company (<5%    Reports (SIMEPRODESO).
sold to CFE grid).
2.0 Landfill gas technical,  2.1 Course by intemational   Course outline (SEDESOL).    Sufficient govemment and private
institutional and managerial  consultant to train SEDESOL                               sector interest in dissemination
knowledge and results of     staff on LFG by end of PY I.                               activities.
demonstration project                                     Study tour itinerary (SEDESOL).
disseminated to potential LFG    2.2 LFG study tour in US for 3                         Local and federal government
project participants through  SEDESOL staff by end of PYI.                              interest in developing programs
technical reports, workshops,                                                           to support LFG development.
training, twinning arrangements
and development of a national                                                           Adequate financing mechanisms
strategy.                                                                               for future replication are
identified.
Private Sector interest in LFG
projects.
- 53 -



2.3 Technical materials,     Technical materials and      Dissemination and training
including toolkit, best practice    distribution list (SEDESOL).    programs are effective at reducing
notes and procurement                                     barriers to replication.
documents, drafted and
disseminated to government and
private entities by mid PY2.
2.4 Public dissemination of  Bank supervision reports (World
project via news releases, tour   Bank).
development, and attendance at
conferences during PY2-PY4.
2.5 6 training courses on LFG
management held during       Course outlines and training
PY2-PY4 in Salinas Victoria.   reports (SEDESOL).
2.3 14 trips by managers to
twinning facility by end of PY4   Report on managerial exchange
(There will be 7 twinning    experiences written by
arrangements and 2 trips per  participating managers
twinning arrangement: I trip by a (SEDESOL).
manager of the developing facility
to the operational facility and I
trip by a manager of operational
facility to the developing facility).
2.4 7 internships at an operating
facility for managers at a   Report on managerial exchange
developing facility during   experiences written by
PY2-PY4.                     participating managers
(SEDESOL).
2.5 Consultative workshop and
study on national replication  Workshop program and natioinal
strategy by end of PY4.      replication strategy report
(SEDESOL).
3.0 Identification of LFG    3.1 Analysis of legislative needs Research report (SEDESOL).    Political interest in regulatory
legislative needs and manner by  of LFG for inclusion in research                       reforms
which these needs can be     report by mnid PY2.
inte8rated into federal legislation.
3.2 Identify how LFG legislative Research report and draft
needs can be integrated into  legislation (SEDESOL).
proposed legislation and prepare
draft legislation by mid PY2.
- 54 -



4.0 Mexican experience       4.1 Conduct a study of LFG   Study report (SEDESOL).      Regional government and private
disseminated regionally (LAC).  projects worldwide.                                   sector interest in the
dissemination activities.
4.2 Consultative workshop on    Workshop program (SEDESOL),
LFG development in Latin                                  Government interest in
America.                                                  developing programs to support
LFG development.
4.3 Prepare materials to be used Dissemination materials
for dissemination by mid PY2.   (SEDESOL).               Adequate non-GEF financing
mechanisms for future replication
are identified.
Private Sector interest in LFG
projects.
4.4 Website up and running by   Website (SEDESOL).        Dissemination and training
end of PY2.                                              programs are effective at reducing
barriers to replication.
4.5 Monthly newsletter of best  Newsletter and distribution list
practices for LFG capture and use (SEDESOL).
published and disseminated to
environment ministries, solid
waste management agencies and
industries in 15 countries by mid
PY3.
4.6 5 training courses on LFG    Course outlines (SEDESOL).
held during PY2-PY4: 2 in
Salinas Victoria and 3 in different
countries in Latin America.
- 55-



4.7 10 trips by managers to  Summary report of management
twinning facility by end of PY4   exchange experiences written by
(There will be 5 twinning    participating managers
arrangements and 2 trips per    (SEDESOL).
twinning arrangement: I trip by a
manager of the developing facility
to the operational facility and I
trip by a manager of operational
facility to the developing facility).
4.8 5 internships at the twinning Summary report of management
facility for managers at the  exchange experiences written by
operating facility by end of PY4. participating managers
5.0 SEDESOL and                                           (SEDESOL).
SIMEPRODESO Project
Management Team in Place and  5.1 LFG specialist staff in place
Operating Successfully       at SIMEPRODESO and           Bank supervision reports (World
SEDESOL by first quarter of  Bank).
PYI.
5.3 Management information
system designed and operating by Bank supervision reports (World
mid PYI.                     Bank).
5.4 SIMEPRODESO's record
keeping organized and staff
trained on procurement       Bank supervision reports (World
procedures by mid PYI.       Bank).
5.5 Requirements for PMR-based
disbursement met by
SIMEPRODESO by end of PYI.
Bank supervision reports (World
5.5 Implementation of        Bank).
environmental management plan.
5.6 Quarterly SOEs produced.
Annual Environmental sununary
report (SIMEPRODESO).
5.7 Annual financial statements
produced.                    Quarterly PMRs/SOEs
(SIMEPRODESO and
5.8 Annual audit reports     SEDESOL).
produced.
Annual Financial statements
5.9 Project reports (listed above  (SIMEPRODESO and
for separate subcomponents)  SEDESOL).
produced.                    Audit reports (SIMEPRODESO
and SEDESOL).
5.10 Reports on demonstration
project produced.            Project reports (SIMEPRODESO
and SEDESOL).
Design and Construction
Summary Report
(SIMEPRODESO).
Quarterly Operational Summary
Report' (SIMEPRODESO).
5.1 I Monitoring reports on  Annual Environmental Summary
Capacity Building and Latin  R
America Dissemination   - 56Report (SIMEPRODESO).
Components produced.         Annual Progress report
(SEDESOL).



- 57 -



OrOO  '                                                  owKy W~rnefC
i;Hierarc    of O etis                    nkoqs                  MpI~ia;;iii  &S \vuto            ICritica  Asum   tios
Project Components I            Inputs: (budget for each         Project reports:                (from Components to
Sub-components:                 component)                                                       Outputs)
1.0 Detailed Engineering        US$ 11.5 million                 Project supervision, disbursement Landfill gas production at
Design and Construction of a                                     and financial reports.          estimated levels.
Plant for Methane Capture and                                                                    Payment by electricity consumers.
Use
1.1 LFG collection system       (US $2.3 million)                                                High tariffs charged by CFE
maintained.
1.2 LFG treatment plant         (US $0.06 million)                                               Continued support from CFE and
CRE for project.
1.3 Power Plant                 (US $7.6 million)                                                Continued commitment by
SIMEPRODESO to project.
1.4 Electrical substation and   (US $0.5 million)                                                Private sector interest in bidding
interconnection line                                                                  on project.
(US $0.04 million)
1.5 Training
2.0 Capacity Building           US$ 0.9 million                                                   Sufficient coordination and
interest in developing twinning
arrangements.
2.1 Dissemination of project    (US$ 0.25 million)                                                Continued commitment to project
results                                                                                           by SEDESOL.
2.2 Training SEDESOL and local (US$ 0.225 million)
government and private sector
managers
2.3 Twinning Arrangements       (US$ 0.26 million)
2.4 National replication strategy   (US$ 0.165 million)
3.0 Regulatory Reform           US$ 0.05 million
4.0 Regional (LAC)              US$ 0.5 million
Dissemination
4.1 Preparation of Dissemination (US$ 0.14 million)
Materials.
4.2 Develop Information Tools.  (US$ 0.05 million)
4.3 Dissemination and Training   (US$ 0.125 million)
Workshops.
4.4 Twinning Arrangements.    (US$ 0.185 million)
5.0 Project Management          US$ 0.3 million
5.1 Landfill Gas Specialists    (US$ 0.15 million)                                                Qualified labor available.
5.2 Implementation of           (US$ 0.025 million)
Environmental Management Plan.
5.3 Project Management and      (US$ 0.1 million)
Administration.
5.4 Building for Training at    (US$ 0.025 million)
SIMEPRODESO.
Total Costs US $13.25 million
The agency responsible for producing the report is shown in parenthesis unless otherwise indicated.
A quarterlv overational summary will include: i) the available and rated capacity of the engines; ii) total and average gas flow; iii) gas used for
electricity production; iv) gas flared; v) electricity produced; vi) electricity sales, itemized by consumer; vii) itemized operational costs ; and viii)
itemized maintenance costs.
An annual proeress reort will include lessons leamed during Project implementation and recommendations for future Project replication including
the results of the social impact amendment carried out by SEDESOL and dessimination experience
'A design and construction summarv will be compiled from the reports provided by the Strategic Partner during construction (such as design report,
- 58 -



design criteria memorandum and as-built drawings). O&M manuals will also be included in this report.
An annual environmental summarv will include: i) methane captured; ii) methane used for electricity; iii) methane flared; iv) results of any engine
emissions tests; v) engine maintenance records as compared to manufacturers suggestions; vi) engine waste oil and coolant handling records; vii)
complaints from neighbors by type (noise, emissions, other); vii) methane leaks detected on methane conveyance system near or in engine house; and
ix) underground methane concentrations on perimeter of landfill. This report will be produced annually after plant is operational.
- 59 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MEXICO: Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
The proposed project seeks to demonstrate a proven technology for LFG capture and use at a landfill in
Mexico. The project will result in immediate reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and will
serve as a model for the internalization of GHG control measures in solid waste management programs.
The objectives of the Project are to expand the assistance provided to the Recipient under the Baseline
Project for the improvement of solid waste management by: (a) demonstrating a cost-effective technology
for LFG capture and use in a selected facility; (b) demonstrating an institutional structure for the
implementation of LFG projects, including private sector participation; (c) strengthening the UMS's
regulatory policy and social frameworks for the introduction of LFG capture and use in Mexico; (d)
designing a dissemination strategy to share the lessons learned throughout Project implementation with
relevant stakeholders in Mexico and Latin America; and (e) designing a strategy to encourage the
replication of the Project in Mexico.
To this end the project will:
*   Design and construct an 7 MW power station fueled by LFG in Salinas Victoria, Mexico.
* Build capacity of the government and private sector in Mexico for LFG management through: i)
dissemination of the experience of the Salinas Victoria project, ii) training, and iii) twinning
arrangements where an operating LFG facility will provide managerial and technical support to a
project to be developed in Mexico.
*   Design a national replication strategy for LFG development in Mexico.
*   Provide a framework for incorporation of LFG management into existing legislation.
*  Facilitate replication of the demonstration project in Latin America through workshops, a website and
newsletter, and twinning arrangements.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$11.50 million
GEF contribution: US$ 4.92 million; Private Sector Strategic Partner Contribution: US$ 6.58 million
Detailed Engineering Design and Construction of a Plant for Methane Capture and Use
This component of the project will provide funding for the design and construction of a LFG collection
system and a 7 MW power plant at a 44 ha filled cell at the SIMEPRODESO landfill. The facility will
include: i) wells, piping network and blowers that will collect LFG produced by the landfill and deliver it to
the power plant; ii) a power plant with an 7 MW capacity and a treatment plant to remove moisture from
the LFG before combustion; iii) a flare that burns off excess methane not used by the power plant and thus
allows for maximal destruction of methane even during plant shutdowns; iv) electrical connection to power
grid, at 34.5 MV; v) supporting infrastructure such as roads, sewerage, water supply, buildings and
lighting; and vi) project design, operator training and supervision. The construction of methane monitoring
wells around the landfill will also be funded under this component.
This will be implemented under a public-private partnership that includes a private sector company with
experience in LFG development. As the "Strategic Partner" in the public-private electric "Cogeneration
Company" the private company will be expected to execute and provide a portion of the financing for the
design and construction of the plant and operator training. The operation of the plant will be the
responsibility of the Strategic Partner during the first 5 years of the project. After this time the operational
- 60 -



responsibility will be shared by the Strategic Partner and SIMEPRODESO. Under the Co-Generation
Company framework (outlined in the Institutional section of the Summary Analysis), the several company
partners (SIMEPRODESO, Municipality of Monterrey, Metrorey-the subway system in Monterrey, and
Servicios de Agua y Drenaje de Monterrey) will pay for the use of the power produced by the landfill.
SIMEPRODESO will use the power for their materials recovery facility, the Municipality of Monterrey
will use it for street lighting, Metrorrey to power their subway system and Servicios de Agua y Drenaje will
use it for water pumping.
As the LFG facility at Salinas Victoria will be a demonstration, it will be documented for purposes of
replication. SIMEPRODESO will prepare the following reports:
A design and construction summary will be compiled from the reports provided by the Strategic Partner
during construction (such as design report, design criteria memorandum and as-built drawings). O&M
manuals will also be included in this report.
A quarterly operational summary including: i) the available and rated capacity of the engines; ii) total and
average gas flow; iii) gas used for electricity production; iv) gas flared; v) electricity produced; vi)
electricity sales, itemized by consumer; vii) itemized operational costs; and, viii) itemized maintenance
costs.
An annual environmental summary including: i) methane captured; ii) methane used for electricity; iii)
methane flared; iv) results of any engine emissions tests; v) engine maintenance records as compared to
manufacturers suggestions; vi) engine waste oil and coolant handling records; vii) LFG condensate
collection and handling records; viii) complaints from neighbors by type (noise, emissions, other); ix)
methane leaks detected on methane conveyance system near or in engine house; x) underground methane
concentrations on perimeter of landfill; xi) safety procedures; and, xii) safety records.
An annual progress report that would include lessons learned during project implementation and
recommendations for future project replication;
A mid-term consolidated reMort, in preparation of mid-term review that will contain: (i) integrated summary
of the monitoring and evaluation activities (see Annex 1 for reporting requirements) and (ii) a summary of
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the project including the implementation of the EMP, and
assessment of the performance of the Cogeneration Company to be used in implementation of the
demonstration project. The report will be produced 20 months after the Effective Date.
Project Component 2 - US$0.90 million
GEF contribution: US$ 0.60 million; SEDESOL contribution: US$ 0.30 million
Capacity Building
In order to promote replication of the LFG collection and use facility elsewhere in Mexico, this component
will fund training, workshops and information dissemination designed to build the capacity of SEDESOL,
local and state government entities and private contractors to promote and manage LFG projects. In
addition, this component will fund the development of a national replication strategy. SEDESOL will be
responsible for implementing this component.
Capacity Building
To build SEDESOL's capacity to assist municipalities in the design and implementation of LFG projects
and directing federal assistance in the sector, this component will fund international training of SEDESOL
employees. The training would include courses from international consultants as well as study tours of
operating LFG projects and government institutions in the US where there is significant experience in LFG.
This component will also providing funding for SEDESOL to build capacity and promote LFG adoption in
state and local governments and private companies in the solid waste industry. Funding will be provided
for the preparation of dissemination materials, for dissemination and training workshops, and for twinning
- 61 -



arrangements.
The dissemination of the results of the demonstration project and the promotion of LFG development will
be done through distribution of the materials to interested public and private entities. In addition, public
tours, demonstrations and press releases will be planned to highlight the demonstration project and the
development of LFG in Mexico to the general public. Training workshops (6) in Monterrey will be run for
those government and private entities interested in developing LFG projects in the future. For these
training workshops practical materials will be developed such as a "LFG toolkit" that includes technical
design, construction and operational manuals, monitoring and supervision guidelines (which will be
developed for application to various regions of the country), "best practice notes", and procurement and
competitive bidding documents for the retrofitting of landfills and for composting in new cells and/or new
facilities. SEDESOL will furnish to the Bank for approval annual training reports, including contents,
schedule, selection criteria and number of participants. The reports would be submitted by December 31 st,
each year. Twinning arrangements where SIMEPRODESO or an international LFG facility provide
managerial and technical support to a project to be developed in Mexico will also be arranged as part of
this component. The project will fund travel for managers from both facilities involved in the twinning
arrangement to visit their counterparts sites. In addition, internships will be available at the operating
facility for the manager planning on developing the LFG project. The visits and internships will be
profitable experiences by themselves and provide a starting point for more a substantial twinning
relationship that would be financed by the two parties involved.
Rgeplication Strategy
This component will also provide funding for the preparation of a national replication strategy. To this end
the project will fund the production of a national replication strategy report detailing a framework for: i)
developing LFG capture and use systems in existing cells in sanitary landfill ("retrofitting"), in new cells
within existing landfills, and in new facilities; ii) introducing LFG management issues in the process of
converting open dumps to sanitary landfills, including discussion of methodologies, analysis and options for
scavengers; iii) incorporating LFG management in the planning, design and construction of future landfill
sites; iv) assessing the prospects of using non-grant financing modalities for future support to
municipalities including access to carbon trade resources; and v) assessing the prospects for the use of LFG
as a source of energy for municipal services in other Mexican cities. The potential compability of
composting (including its use in agriculture) with landfill gas projects will also be explored and included as
a component of the replication strategy. A consultative workshop with public, private and other entities
interested in solid waste and LFG will be held and the outcomes will be incorporated in the national
replication strategy report.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.05 million
GEF contribution: US$ 0.05 million
Policy and Regulatory Reform
The project will fund the necessary technical background reviews for identification of LFG management
legislative needs. The project will strengthenthe capacity of SEDESOL for the future development of a
modem legal and regulatory framework applicable to LFG management issues, through the provision of a
regulatory reform study. SEDESOL will implement this component.
Project Component 4 - US$0.50 million
GEF contribution: US$ 0.50 million
Regional (Latin America) Dissemination
The project will support efforts aimed at facilitating the dissemination of the design and operational
experience gained from the SIMEPRODESO demonstration project and other projects worldwide for
- 62 -



replication throughout the region.
Specifically, the project will fund the development of materials appropriate for dissemination in Latin
America. During preparation of the materials a study will be funded that assesses the worldwide economic
and technical effectiveness of LFG plants with a focus on barriers to implementation in developing
countries and best practice models appropriate to the Latin America context. In addition, a consultative
workshop will be funded that will include public, private and other entities in Latin America that are
interested in LFG. The potential compability of composting (including its use in agriculture) with landfill
gas projects will also be explored and included in the dissemination materials.
Funding will be provided to develop a website and a newsletter based on the dissemination materials. In
addition, the funding will support workshops in Monterrey and other locations in Latin America for
government officials, owners and operators of sanitary landfills interested in LFG and other potentially
interested parties from the private sector, such as independent power producers in the region.
This component will also fund the development of twinning arrangements between developing LFG projects
in Latin America and operating projects such as the one at SIMEPRODESO or other international
facilities. Similar to the capacity building component, the project will fund travel for managers from both
facilities involved in the twinning arrangement to visit the other's facilities. In addition, intemships will be
available at the operating facility for the manager planning on developing the LFG project. SEDESOL will
be responsible for implementing this component.
Project Component 5 - US$0.34 million
GEF contribution: USS 0.20 million; SEDESOL contribution: US$ 0.04 million; SIMEPRODESO contribution US$ 0.1 million
Project Management, Supervision and Monitoring
Landfill Gas Specialists
The project will hire 2 LFG specialists over the 3 year project period. One specialist will be at
SIMEPRODESO and will be in charge of administrative oversight of the demonstration project and will
coordinate with SEDESOL to provide information for the development of dissemination materials and
organizing public dissemination activities and other support necessary for implementation of the capacity
building and dissemination components. Another LFG specialist will be located in the Office of Landfill
Gas Management at SEDESOL. This specialist will be in charge of implementing the capacity building,
policy and regulatory reform and regional dissemination components of the project.
EMP
This component will fund some of the equipment and tests necessary to implement the environmental
management plan. This will include the engine stack tests. In addition the EMP monitoring and
administration costs will be covered. The remainder of the costs of the EMP will be covered by the
Strategic Partner as specified in the bidding documents.
Project Management and Administration
The project will fund the technical and administrative support necessary to implement the project and to
provide monitoring of the project as a whole. Landfill gas specialists will be employed for the project in
SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO. In accordance with the procurement capacity assessment, this
component will pay for a consultant to organize the booking and train SIMEPRODESO's procurement
team. In accordance with the financial capacity assessment, the salaries of independent auditors for annual
audits of SIMEPRODESO will also be funded. The costs of production of the required project monitoring,
supervision and auditing reports, the operational summary report, the environmental summary report and
- 63 -



the lessons leamed report will also be funded.
- 64 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MEXICO: Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
Local        Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Component                    US $mHtion    US  rlhion    US $million
Detailed Engineering Design and Construction of a Plant for      1.96           7.83           9.79
Methane Capture and Use
Capacity Building                                                0.44           0.40           0.84
Regulatory Reform                                                0.04           0.00           0.04
Regional (Latin America) Dissemination                           0.21           0.26           0.47
Project Management                                               0.32           0.00           0.32
Total Baseline Cost                                              2.97           8.49          11.46
Physical Contingencies                                          0.20           0.78           0.98
Price Contingencies                                             0.21           0.60           0.81
Total Project Costs                  3.38           9.87          13.25
Total Financing Required                   3.38           9.87          13.25
Local         Forein          Total
Project Cost By Category                    US $mifion    US $mfillion    US $million
Goods                                                              0.01            0.00           0.01
Training*                                                          0.40            0.08           0.48
Consultant Services                                                0.28            0.28           0.56
Joint Venture Agreement**                                          2.30            9.16          11.46
Project Management***                                              0.39            0.35           0.74
Total Project Costs        3.38            9.87          13.25
Total Financing Required         3.38            9.87          13.25
i Training refers to the costs related to the provision of training and capacity building (including twinning
arrangements) such as domestic and foreign travel, room, board and per diem and other administrative expenses
incurred by trainees in connection with their training and capacity building activities; the organization and
delivery of workshops and other dissemination and consultation activities; training facility rental; and the
preparation, production and publication of instructional materials.
** Joint Venture Agreement refers to the expenditures for goods, works and consultants' services procured by the
Strategic Partner contracted to design, build and operate the LFG power plant and provide the training activities
referred to in Component A of the project.
***Project Management refers to the reasonable recurrent expenditures incurred by the project staff at
SIMEPRODESO and SEDESOL, in the daily implementation, management, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of the Project, such as cost of office supplies, equipment and computers, maintenance of facilities and
equipment and transportation and per diem of the Project implementation staff, all of which expenditures would
not have been incurred absent the Project.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 13.25 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 47.32% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 65 -



Annex 4
MEXICO: Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
Annex 4a: Detailed Financial Analysis
A detailed financial analysis was performed as part of the feasibility study. The results and basis
of the analysis are shown below:
Investment costs: The costs of design and construction of the LFG capture and use facility were
determined through a detailed technical design of the collection system and power plant to be constructed at
the SIMEPRODESO landfill. The costs were confirmed through quotes by suppliers.
Investment Costs for Methane Gas Capture and
Use Facility at SIMEPRODESO
Item                      Cost (pesos)
Gas collection system      18,020,000
Treatment plant             500,000
Engine house                400,000
Engines                  3 x 16,605,000
1 x 9,963,000
Electrical substation      7,670,000
(34.5 kV)
Interconnection line       4,000,000
Training                    350,000
Subtotal                   90,718,000
Contingencies (10%         15,422,060
physical; 7% price)
Total Investment          106,140,060
__________ __   (US $11.5 million)
Recurrent costs: The costs of administration were estimated based on the requirements for similar
projects. The maintenance costs were estimated based on manufacturers' estimates, CFE estimates and
typical costs from previous LFG projects. The transmission charges were based on CFE estimates.
- 66 -



Recurrent Costs for Methane Cap ture and Use Facility at SIMEPRODESO
Total Operation
and Maintenance Transmission    Price    Total costs of
_______       .AdminL rstraSon Crti o ts I(A_)                                   M aintq ...nC Losts i )I                                 Costs          Costs      Conting.    exDlotation
Total costs of                                                 Intercon
Gas               Other  Administratio System of Treatn    Engione    Control Electrical nection  Backup Total Maint.
_    Personnel Capture Operators  costs            n        Capture   t Plant     Units    Svstems  Subst.   line   Charges    Costs           C =A  B           (, D )      7%         E = C + 0
_                                                                                          =                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.1530
___    __                      _ __                             _ _ _ . _ _-                                                                          pesos / kWh
pesos    pesos    pesos    pesos        pesos       pesos    pesos pesos           pesos    pence    p pesos p            esos          pw             p            pesos        pesos
ano                          __ _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _             ____
2001                                                                                                                               _0                                  0           0 _
2002    307,800             469,800  12,000       7890   500.000 o      0s000   1,267l937  10 0   37,500   5oo  27Z471   2,232,                   3,022.5      3.987.98      490,7        7,501.22
2003    61t5600             939,600   24,000    1,579,20       00  0   100,000   2,535.874            75000   1oooc  544.942                      5,845.015    7.975,969     967,469    14.788,453
2004    615,600    _        939,600   24,0010 1,9,    1,ooo,00 10 0    o,o.0   2,55,8741              75,00   10 09C  544,942   465.8151          5,845,015    7.95.69         670469    14,7, 8,453
2005    615.600             939,600   24,00      1,579,    1 000000  1a00.0    2.535,874        p    75,000  10,Q   5,942   4,365,81              5,845,015    7,976,969     974469    14.,i 89,43
2006    615,600  50,000   939,600   24.000    1.629,2001 1.000 ,0  10  ooo         ,640.118           75,000  10    544,942   637006              7.9992.20    7853293          ,7       16,962,232
2007    615,6000            939,600      ,       1,579.20  1,0 .i ,00   100 ,Q 2g90  3_974            75,000  10,    544942   4,261,81            5845,01501 7344549               1 ,,3
2008    615,600,            939.600   24,00      1,579201 1000000           0   2,535874  1 00_000   75,000   10,00 544,942   43 1                5.945,01      6,8781797                213721 4,2 9
2009    615,600             939,600   24,000  1,579.200 1000000  100.000  2,535.874                   75,000  10   544,942   4,6          52,42811515.84,01    6,441.707                 13,145,79
2010    61                  939600   24,000    1,579,20A   1 ,0,0.00 000   1 90_1 ,05 _               75,000   1,0   544,942   3,631,847          5.21 1.047    6,026,113    712 12023,7.61
201     61500       000    939,600   24 ooo    1,659,20   1000,000  100000  1210975  1j          0   75000  1,       . 544942  14,000,91         15,630.117    547 1,     4  fss02    22,61.981
2012    615600              939 600   24,00    1,579,200  1,000,000  100,000   1,901,905              75,000  10,000  544.942   3,631.847         5,211,047    5.206,6731    72970    11,14.589 0
2013    615,600             939.600   24,000    1,579,20   1.000000  1o.oo00       1.90,05            75,000  10,    544Q ,      3,631.84        5s211.047    4,951,2011    711,364 ,1.  5      71i2
2014    615,600             939,600   24,000    1          1579.200 1.00000  1.00  1,901,905   0_00   75,000 10_000  544,942   3,75,84            5,311,047    4.625,274     695,542   1,,6s1,864
2015    615,600             939_600   24,00      1,579,20  1,000.000  100     1,901,905               75,000  19,900  544,947    3631s7E          5,211,047  43342,          667,978     10,210.517
2016    615 00         0   939.600  2,4.000  1..62920  1.0D000 00 Q,, 0  2.320.059                    75,000  10,Q5 ~54494   4g050001             5,679,201    4.059.207     68.51,65    10,420,006
2017    615600              939600  24 90     1579    0Io,00000  1000 1,26_7937  100000   75,000 o  10,0   544,542   3.097,879                    4,677079      ,            5,5j2        9,06.17T
21    615,600            939,600   24.000    1.579,200  1,000.000  100,000  1,267,937             75,000 1O,009  544.42   2.997.879            4.577,07    299            525,040     8,025.607
Financial Analysis:
Project Benefits: The financial benefit of the project was calculated as the revenue from electricity sale.
The electricity will be sold to the Municipality of Monterrey for street lighting at night, Servicios de Agua y
Drenaje (the water utility) for water pumping and SIMEPRODESO for their materials recovery facility
during the day. The costs of electricity to these entities (including the tariff and the fixed costs) were
discounted 5% below the current costs charged by CFE.* The benefit was calculated as the kwh produced
by the LFG facility each year (as estimated by the LFG production model (see Annex 15)), multiplied by
the average selling price of electricity (calculated as the average price charged to each of the consumers
weighted by the expected kwh used). The average price was 0.81 pesos/kwh.
Project Costs: The project costs included the investment costs and the recurrent costs and took into
account depreciation and taxes.
*Municipality of Monterrey for street lighting: 1.35 pesos/kwh; Servicios de Agua y Drenaje for water pumping and SIMEPRODESO for naterials
recovery facility: 0.53-0.72 pesos/kwh depending on the amount, time of day and type of line. As selling electricity to Metroney (the subway system)
became an option after the financial analysis was done, it is not considered here. The electricity tariff for Metrorrey is only slightly higher than that for
Servicios de Agua y Drenaje and therefore will only increase the average selling price and thus the IRR marginally.
**The costs of the electricity to run the blowers are included in "other costs" under admninistration costs.
- 67 -



Cash flow Analysis of Methane Gas Capture and Use Facility at SIMEPRODESO.
Revenue from                      Costs of
Elect'citv Sales    Investment   Exploi tion    Depreciation       Taxes         Cash Flow
__________           35%
______    pesos           pesos           pesos           pesos           Desos
2001                0      106.140.060             0               0               0    -106.140.060
2002        21.159.803              0       7,501,227        6.853.500      2.381.777      11,276.799
2003        42.319.606              0      14.788.453        9.016.800      6,480.023     21.051,129
2004        42.319.606              0      14.788.453        9.016.800      6,480,023     21.051.129
2005        42.319.606              0      14.895.453        9.016.800      6,442,573     20.981.579
2006        41.668.701              0      16.962.232        9.016.800      5.491,384      19.215.085
2007        38.969.360              0      14.112.834        9,016.800      5.543,904      19.312.622
2008        36.498.132              0      13.721.479        9.016.800      4.815,949      17.960.704
2009        34.178.980              0      13.146.793        9.016.800      4.205.386      16.826.802
2010        31.973.884      -1.195,560     12.023.761        9.016.800      4,245,109      16.900.574
2011        29.939.874              0      22.761.981        8.020.500             0       7.177.893
2012        27.620.722              0      11.145.890        1.187.000      5.350.741      11.124.091
2013        26.271.051              0      10.873.712          20,000       5.382,069      10.015.271
2014        24.541.192              0      10.631.864          20.000       4.861,265      9.048.063
2015        22.982.418              0      10.210.517          20.000       4.463.165      8.308.735
2016        21,537.700              0      10.420.096          20.000       3,884,161      7.233,442
2017        20.131.001              0       9,064.147          20.000       3.866,399      7,200,455
2018        18.838.359              0       8.696.469          20.000       3.542.661      6.599,228
2019        17.659.773              0       8.458.792          20.000       3.213.343      5.987.638
2020        16.519.207              0       8.335.782          20.000       2.857,199      5,326,226
2021        15.511.706              0       8.025.607          20.000       2.613.135      4.872.964
The final financial statistics were then calculated assuming a 10% discount rate.
NPV= 20,665,222 pesos
(US$ 2.2 million)
IRR=13.4 %
Analysis with GEF grant: In order to determine the effect of the GEF grant on the financial viability of the project,
the financial analysis was also run assuming that, as proposed, the GEF grant will pay for US$4.92 million of the
investment costs. This was done as described above with the GEF grant subtracted from the total investment costs.
NPV=66,074,708 pesos
(US$ 7.2 million)
IRR=27.6%
Sensitivity Analysis: A sensitivity analysis was also performed in order to assess the effect of uncertainty in the
electricity price, investment costs, gas production and discount rate on the results of the financial analysis. This was
done by changing each of the parameters +/- 20% and performing the financial analysis as described above.
- 68 -



Sensitivi y of Internal Rate of Return (%) to C anges_i Important Parameters
With GEF Grant                                              Without GEF Grant
% change in parameter -20%  -10%   Base  +10%  +20%                                      . -20%  -10%   Base  +10%  +20%
Electricity price           18.7      23.3      27.6       31.6      35.5                  7.1      10.4       13.4      16.2       18.9
Investment costs            35.1       31.0      27.6      24.7       22.3                 18.4      15.7      13.4       11.6       9.9
Gas production             20.6       24.2      27.6      30.8       34.0                 8.5       11.0       13.4      15.0      16.5
Delay in start of operation                 Base  1 6              12                                      Base        6         12
| mths* mths**                                                 mths* mths**
27.6      23.7      22.4                                      13.4       11.2      10.5
* It is assumed that in a delay of 6 months or less there would not be sufficient time for the contractor to adjust the design and reduce the capacity of the plant (to
6 MW) to account for the lower total gas captured as a result of the delay. This extra capacity is assumed to be sold at 70% of the original price.
**For longer delays, it is assumed the contractor will be able to adjust the design and reduce the capacity of the plant (to 6 MW) to account for the lower total
gas captured as a result of the delay. As selling electricity to Metrorrey (the subway system) became an option after the financial analysis was done, it is not
considered here. The electricity tariff for Metrorrey is only slightly higher than that for Servicios de Agua y Drenaje and therefore will only increase the average
selling price and thus the IRR marginally.
- 69 -



Annex 4b: Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
Overview
1.     The proposed GEF project seeks to demonstrate the technology and strengthen the regulatory,
policy, and social frameworks for the introduction of LFG capture and use in Mexico, as indicated by
capture and use of LFG (LFG) at one facility. Project activities would be included to boost the replication
potential of the experience.
2.     The proposed Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project would provide
complementary support to an existing (baseline) integrated solid waste management project (Second Solid
Waste Management Project -Ln. 3752-ME). In addition to GEF funding, the federal government and a
private sector company will be contributing to project costs, as well as IBRD loan funds.
Context and Broad Development Goals
3.     As is the case with many developing nations, Mexico faces serious difficulties in the management
of urban refuse and solid waste. It is estimated that over 82,000 tons of solid waste is generated in the
country every day. Yet, there is a generalized lack of proper treatment and disposal facilities; institutional
capacities are weak; and financial conditions, at the local, municipal level are frequently adverse. The
problem continues to compound, exacerbated by: i) the sustained growth of population; ii) the high rate of
rural migration to urban settings; and iii) an increased degree of industrialization and associated local
consumption patterns. For example, during the last several decades, Mexico has been urbanizing rapidly*.
Per capita generation of urban refuse has also increased.
4.     Of all the solid waste generated, only 77% is collected (62 thousand tons) and less than 35% is
disposed under sanitary conditions (29 thousand tons). Improper waste management practices contribute to
serious health and safety problems in nearby communities, negatively impacts property values and has been
linked to the contamination of aquifers and surface waters. In addition, the waste that is deposited in
landfills decomposes and produces LFG (LFG), which is customarily 50% methane. Methane is a potent
greenhouse gas, contributing to smog, global warning and the risk of explosion if not properly controlled.
5.     Mindful of the long-term costs of improper solid waste management, the Government of Mexico
has initiated (with assistance from the World Bank) a program designed to address some of the underlying
causes of improper solid waste management. The program supports efforts to: a) strengthen regulations
and institutions at a federal and local level to provide more effective practices and incentives; and b) assist
in the development of sustainable solid waste management practices. This program is assisting specific
communities, committed to policy, institutional reform and the implementation of sustainable practices in
its efforts to develop, design and operate long-term, solid waste management programs. It also includes
revisions and strengthening of the regulatory framework ("La Norma Oficial Mexicana"
(NOM-083-ECOL-1996). This integrated approach taken by the UMS
*Currently, approximately 60% of the population of 92 million Estimate of 1997 population size, assuming an annual growth rate of 2%. live in cities
with over 15,000 inhabitants National Communication of Mexico, available on the Climate Change Commission Homepage.
- 70 -



has led to better collection, transfer and disposal of solid waste and the introduction of cost recovery for
solid waste collection and disposal.
6.     The UMS now wishes to turn its attention to LFG management, which is not addressed in its
current solid waste management program. Methane emissions from landfills make up I 0% of total methane
emissions in Mexico*, and UMS considers the reduction of methane emissions to be a critical part of a
national strategy to control emission of greenhouse gases. The current proposal involves the utilization of
the methane produced by a single landfill site, as a demonstration for future replication elsewhere in
Mexico (and potentially the region). This would result in a reduction in methane emissions, a reduction in
the need for other fossil fuels, lower CO2 emissions from fossil fuel combustion, and more profitable
municipal solid waste management programs. The current proposal is consistent with UMS climate change
assessment and objectives as presented in Mexico's First National Communication and Climate Change
Action Plan. The first communication provided an estimate of the total emissions of greenhouse gases,
outlined programs for their control and reduction and identified some of the impacts anticipated as a result
of climate changes. The communication explicitly identified the uncontrolled release of LFG as one of the
sources of emissions of methane to the atmosphere and suggested measures to contain these emissions.
7.     Looking beyond the solid waste sector, institutional, normative, and programmatic capabilities in
the area of environmental control in Mexico have improved noticeably over the past three years. Energy
policy has been improved environmentally, through the following measures: i) use of improved fuels; ii)
fuel conservation; and iii) energy conservation and efficiency. Other programs initiated for conservation of
the environment and natural resources are: i) The Protected Natural Area Program; ii) The Forestry
Program; iii) National Reforestation Program; iv) Integrated System for Environmental Regulation and
Administration; v) various policies regarding industrial and urban pollution; and vi) registration of
emissions and the transfer of contaminants**
Scope of the Analysis
8.     The analysis of physical investments is limited to the single demonstration site at Monterrey where
solid waste management improvements and methane capture and use are being demonstrated. The analysis
of capacity building, policy reform, and dissemination activities is national in scope, focusing on small- and
medium-sized cities.
Baseline Scenario
9.     The baseline scenario would consist of the GoM's program to improve physical solid waste
management in selected small- and medium-size municipalities, strengthen local and federal capabilities to
plan and execute solid waste management programs, and improve the regulatory framework and
enforcement efforts to ensure that appropriate solid waste management standards are in force and applied
in practice. The emphasis under the baseline would be on solid waste management and associated
monitoring activities, and little attention would be devoted to integrating LFG capture within the regulatory
framework or physical investment program.
*Avances en el desarrollo de indicadores para la evaluacion del desempeiio ambiental en Mexico 1997, Instituci6n Nacional de Ecologica,
SEMARNAP.
**First National Communication to UNFCCC, UMS, 1997.
- 71 -



10.   Expenditures under the baseline scenario amount to US$ 14.0 million, from the ongoing IBRD
loan, UMS financing, and municipal counterpart. The baseline investments consist of: i) capacity building
of BANOBRAS and SEDESOL to appraise and supervise solid waste projects and technical assistance to
municipalities and states (US$ 8.9 million); ii) technical assistance to advise on improvements in the legal
and regulatory framework and design of cost recovery mechanisms to ensure sector sustainability and
safeguard the environment (US$ 1.4 million); iii) implementation of a pilot program of sustainable solid
waste management practices at Monterrey, including environmental monitoring (IJS$ 0.95 million); and iv)
Operation and maintenance costs (US $2.74 million) for the landfill are also considered part of the baseline
scenario. The costs of establishing the sanitary landfill at the proposed site of the methane capture and use
plant are not included in the baseline, as these are sunk costs.
11.   The results from implementing the baseline scenario would be positive: a solid foundation --
institutional capacity, regulatory framework, and best practices/applied methodologies -- would have been
established for future replication of modem solid waste management practices in other small and medium
size cities. However, the issue of LFG management would not have been addressed in any meaningful way
within sector planning or investment programs under the baseline scenario, due to the incremental costs
associated with the required investments, lack of information/guidelines, and absence of practical
experience adapted to local conditions.
12.   In other words, without GEF financing, methane capture would not be a priority investment in the
short term. Moreover, without the institutional strengthening and capacity building necessary to integrate
and internalize global concerns within the existing local environmental actions plans, involving not only the
whole array of local authorities but also the participation of main stakeholders, LFG management is likely
to continue to be ignored and not viewed as a local environmental responsibility.
Global Environmental Benefits
13.   The proposed project will result in a capture of 214 million cubic meters (857,945 tC equivalent)
of methane and substitute for 127 thousand tons of carbon from fossil fuel energy sources. This is a total
of 0.99 million tons of carbon reduction. The portion of the GEF grant for the methane capture and use
facility in Monterrey (US $4.92 million) would pay for this reduction at a cost of US $4.99 per ton of
carbon. The integration of a renewable energy application in the LFG strategy is expected to result in
sustainability of the GEF Alternative in the long-term. Beyond the specific methane mitigation benefit, the
project will also lay the foundation for future replication within Mexico in comparably sized cities, and for
greater awareness among regional practitioners of the LFG management issue and options through
dissemination activities.
GEF Alternative
14.   Due to the unbinding nature of Mexico's commitments under the FCCC and the Kyoto Protocol,
the national efforts to mitigate the current emission of GHG will be undertaken based on a gradual and
voluntary participation of stakeholders, and supported by available international funding mechanisms to
cover the associated incremental costs. Parallel to these initiatives, and as part of the Government's efforts
for controlling the emission of greenhouse gases, there is an attractive opportunity to internalize concerns
about methane emissions at landfills (in the context of efforts to address improper waste management).
This could be done through properly designed systems to capture and utilize LFG, at facilities being
developed under the existing program. Implementation of these systems would reduce the emissions of
methane to the atmosphere while mitigating local air pollution and improving the safety of operations at the
landfills. Adding a methane capture element to the program would lay the basis for future replication
- 72 -



efforts by demonstrating costs, potential, and effective management arrangements under Mexican
conditions while addressing generic institutional barriers.
15.   The proposed project is complementary to the baseline scenario and would consist of
mainstreaming LFG management considerations into the baseline sector program. Total expenditures for
the GEF Alternative are estimated at US$ 33.1 million which would include: i) the baseline program
described above (US$ 14.0 million); ii) a pilot methane capture and use program in Monterrey (IJS$ 11.50
million); iii) strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Social Development, SEDESOL, to provide
expert advice on LFG management measures, and building capacity of Monterrey and comparably sized
cities facing similar problems by developing methodologies, manuals, providing training and twinning
opportunities (US$ 0.9 million); iv) the necessary technical background reviews for identification of LFG
management legislative needs. (TJS$ 0.05 million); v) dissemination of information on the Mexican
experience regionally through the development of technical tools to address barriers to methane capture and
use and development (US$ 0.05 million); organization of LFG technical training workshops (US $0.25
million); and sponsorships of technical interns (US$ 0.2 million); vi) project management, supervision,
environmental monitoring and evaluation (IJS$ 0.3 million) vii) operation and maintenance costs (US $5.82
million) of GEF alternative are considered in the incremental cost analysis but will be covered by the
private investor in the project (LFG O&M) and the landfill owner (landfill O&M).
Costs
16.   Implementation of the Baseline scenario would entail costs estimated at US$ 14.0 million, while the
GEF Alternative would incur costs estimated at US$ 33.1 million. The additional costs associated with the
integration of LFG management concerns in the baseline scenario are estimated at US$19.07 million, of
which US$ 6.27 million are considered agreed incremental costs, after calculating the domestic benefits
related to revenues generated from LFG-based electricity sales. Note: These calculations have been
updated since GEF Council Approval (in May, 2000 of $6.53 million agreed incremental costs) to reflect
more accurate cost estimates.
- 73 -



INCREMENTAL COST MATRIX (all figures in US$ miHlion)
Cost             Baseline:    Alternative:                  Incremental      Domestic Benefit                     Global Benefit
Categories       Landfill     CH4 Capture and Use           Costs
(all figures     filled                                     Altemative
PV@10%)                                                     minus Baseline
Investment       0.95          12.45                        11.5             improvement of solid waste           Capture of 229 million
Costs                                                                        disposal. Generation of 733 GWh         o   ehaeoe  h
of electricity from a non-polluting    m of methane over the
source and collection of revenues    life of the project.
from electricity sales. Reduction
of odor and explosion risks.
O&M Costs        2.74         8.57*                         5.82             Management of landfill.              Successful operation of
LFG plant (C emissions
abated).
Project          0            0.3                           0.3              Improved site operational            Cost effective reduction
Management                                                                   efficiency; lower operating costs;   of methane emissions.
reduced environmental impact of
landfill on local community.
Capacity         8.9          9.8                           0.9              Improved solid waste                 Potential replication of
Building                                                                     management.                          experience at a national
Improved local knowledge on         level with associated
LFG capture and use resulting in    reductions in methane
local environmental benefits.       emissions.
Policy            1.4          1.45                         0.05             Improved solid waste                 Integration of LFG
Regulation                                                                   management. Lower cost of solid    concerns into sector
waste management; creation of a     norms and standards.
new LFG industry; use of a
clean, local energy resource.
Regional         0            0.5                           0.5               Development of a LFG industry       LFG information
Dissemination                                                                 with expertise applicable in other    exchange in other
countries.                          countries in the region.
Total Costs       14.0        33.1                          19.07             NOTES:
* O&M costs of GEF alternative project include landfill O&M and LFG O&M
(based on the NPV of costs (discounted 10%/0) shown in financial analysis, not
Revenue          0            (12.8)                        (12.8)           including transmission charges).
from                                                                          * * The revenue from electricity was calculated using the kwh production estimates
Electricity**                                                                 in Annex 15 and the long sun marginal cost of electricity provided by CFE 0.35
pesolkwhL
Incremental                                                 6.27
Costs
Tyve of Benefits   Baseline    GEF Alternative          Alternative-Baseline
Domestic Benefits    -         700 GWh of Electricity    700 GWh of Electricity
Global Benefits    0 tC abated   0.99 miflion tC abated  0.99 million tC abated
- 74 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MEXICO: Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
Years Ending
October 1
I Year 1i Year 2  I Year 3  I Year 4  I Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           8.7       3.6        0.4        0.4       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1        0.1       0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          8.8       3.7        0.5        0.5       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              8.8       3.7        0.5        0.5       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Government                0.0        0.2       0.1        0.1        0.0      0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             5.0        1.7        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
(Private Sector)
GEF                       3.8        1.8       0.3        0.4        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     8.8        3.7       0.4        0.5       0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 75 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MEXICO: Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
Procurement
General
Procurement for the project will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999) and Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
(January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999).
International Competitive Bid for Strategic Partner
The Strategic Partner that will design, build, operate the LFG facility (including the collection system,
power plant and electrical connections as described in the technical section of the Sunmmary Analysis and
specified in the Joint Venture Agreement of the Cogeneration Company) and provide training and finance
will be procured through an international competitive bidding (ICB) process in accordance with section II
of the Guidelines. The goods, works and services needed for the construction of the LFG power plant
would be procured in accordance with the applicable procedures of the Strategic Partner. The GEF grant
will cover US $4.93 million of the estimated $11.5 million total cost of the LFG facility.
SIMEPRODESO is organizing the bid. The bidding process includes prequalification followed by bidding.
The bidders have been prequalified based on their experience in design, construction and operation of LFG
facilities, their personnel and financing capabilities. The prequalified companies will be invited to bid and
the award given based on the bidder that will provide the highest profit stream for SIMEPRODESO
(highest net present value). Under a USTDA grant, the prequalification and bidding documents are being
prepared by SIMEPRODESO with the assistance of a consultant with experience in procurement for LFG
projects. In addition, the consultant along with the task team are providing advice during prequalification
and bid evaluation. All documents will be reviewed by the task team and cleared by the Regional
Procurement Advisors for Latin America and the Caribbean.
General Approach
The Strategic Partner will be a major driving force in the project and will influence the structure of the deal
in important ways. The procurement process therefore must provide enough flexibility in the finalization of
the arrangements in order to accommodate the demands of the Strategic Partner while having a clearly
defined structure that allows for fair and effective competition. To this end, a description of the proposed
Cogeneration Company structure with the relevant aspects of the associated permits and contracts were
provided in the prequalification documents. In the bidding documents the bidders will be provided with a
draft incorporation agreements, draft contracts, letters of interest for the proposed members of the
Cogeneration Company and other arrangements. The relevant technical and financial information
necessary for the bidders to analyze and bid the project will also be provided.
This information includes:
*   Description of works with design and performance specifications.
*   Gas generation model with all assumptions.
*   Tariff charge and quantity of electricity to be sold to each consumer.
*  Other costs such as wheeling, transport and backup.
*  Range and conditions of profit sharing arrangements allowed.
*   Minimum equity financing allowed.
- 76-



* A preformatted spreadsheet for making all calculations.
The bidders will bid on this basis and provide the following information in the bid:
*   Gas generation model output: They will be allowed to change certain assumptions in the model and
will be expected to guarantee these. (i.e. they can change their capture efficiency from 70 to 75% and
they will have to guarantee this under contract).
*   Investment costs: Within the parameters of the design description and specifications they will come up
with the costs for design and construction of the plant.
*   Profit sharing setup: Within prestated restrictions they will have to specify how the profits will be
shared in the first five years.
*   Capacity to raise financing and proof of access to funds.
*   From this information the bidder will be required to fill in a preformatted spreadsheet and calculate the
net present value of the profit stream of SIMEPRODESO. This will be the bidding item with the
award going to the highest bid. After selection of the Strategic Partner modifications to the contracts
will be negotiated.
Status of Process
The procurement schedule is shown below. The prequalification process was completed before
negotiations and the bidding documents will have been prepared and reviewed by the Bank before Board
Presentation. The bidding documents will be sent to the prequalified firms immediately after Board
Approval.
Schedule for Procurement of Strategic Partner
8/20/00:             Published Invitation to Submnit Letters of Interest in Development Business, trade
journals and in Mexico.
1/11/01:             Sent prequalification documents to those that submitted letters of interest.
Publish invitation to prequalify in Development Business and in Mexico.
2/16/01:             Received prequalification documents from 10 companies.
2/16/01-3/30/01:     Prequalified bidders.
4/30/01:             Send invitation to bid and bidding documents to prequalified firms.
6/01/01              Review by the Bank of bidding documents after bidding conference.
7/01/01:             Bids received from prequalified firms.
7/01/01-8/01/01:     Evaluate bids.
08/20/01:            Award contract.
Consultant Services
Consultants will be hired for the Capacity Building, Policy and Regulatory Reform and Latin America
Dissemination Components and Project Management. Consultants will be used to prepare dissemination
materials, design the replication strategy, prepare the research report and draft legislation, research
worldwide experience, perform tests required under the EMP and perform the necessary auditing and
training to implement the project. Intemational consultants will provide guidance on the preparation of
dissemination materials and research worldwide experience in LFG. The remaining consultants will be
national.
Quality and Cost Based Selection (as per the Consultant Guidelines, Section II, paragraph 3 of Appendix
1, Appendix 2 and paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18) will be used for firms with contracts >US $100,000.
Selection based on Consultant Qualifications (as per paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of Consultant Guidelines) will
be used for firms with contracts <US $100,000. Individual consultants will be procured as under the
individual consultant selection procedures (as per paragraphs 5.1 and 5.3 of Consultant Guidelines).
- 77 -



Contracts for consultant firms estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more and individual
consultants estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent or more shall be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Contracts below this threshold shall require prior approval of the Terms of Reference by the Bank.
Goods
The goods to be purchased as part of the project are computer equipment (<US $13,000). These will be
procured through national shopping.
Training
Training refers to the costs related to the provision of training and capacity building (including twinning
arrangements) such as domestic and foreign travel, room, board and per diem and other administrative
expenses incurred by trainees in connection with their training and capacity building activities; the
organization and delivery of workshops and other dissemination and consultation activities; training facility
rental; and the preparation, production and publication of instructional materials. These will be procured
using consultant selection.
Project Management
Refers to the reasonable recurrent expenditures incurred by the SvIMEPRODESO and the SEDESOL
project implementation staff, in the daily implementation, management, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of the Project, such as maintenance of facilities and equipment and transportation and per diem
of implementation staff, all of which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project. These
will be procured using SOE procedures.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
A procurement capacity assessment was completed for SIMEPRODESO and approved by the RPA on
August 14, 2000. The capacity assessment concluded that the risk is high but may be reduced after
selection of the Strategic Partner. An action plan (described below) was prescribed. The plan will be
agreed at negotiations and implementation of the plan will be included in the Grant Agreement as a Legal
Covenant (see Main Grant Conditions, section G). This action plan, the commitment by SIMEPRODESO
to the procurement process and the consultant services that have been arranged will significantly reduce the
procurement risk.
Procurement Action Plan
At negotiations, it was agreed that audit reports be submitted annually to the Bank that include a review of
the procurement record keeping and filing system.
A procurement specialist for SIMEPRODESO and SEDESOL would be appointed as a condition of
effectiveness of the grant. The procurement consultant would organize record keeping and train
SIMEPRODESO's project implementation staff.
Workshop
SIMEPRODESO and SEDESOI would prepare a project launch workshop after Board approval.
Training
Periodic participation of SIIMEPRODESO and SEDESOL is expected in specialized workshops on
procurement under Bank Guidelines as they become available during the life of the project.
- 78 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)'
Expenditure                             Procurement Method
Category                 ICB           Shopping       Consultant       Other          Total
Selection
(see table Al)
Goods                    0.00            0.013           0.00           0.00          0.014
(0.00)         (0.013)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.014)
Training2                0.00             0.00           0.14           0.34           0.48
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.10)          (0.27)        (0.37)
Consultants'             0.00             0.00           0.56           0.00           0.56
Services                (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.42)          (0.00)        (0.42)
Joint Venture            11.50            0.00           0.00           0.00           11.50
Agreement'              (4.92)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (4.92)
Project                  0.00             0.00           0.19           0.51           0.70
Management"              (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.13)          (0.42)        (0.55)
Total                    11.50           0.013           0.89           0.85           13.25
(4.92)         (0.013)         (0.65)          (0.69)        (6.27)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the GEF Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Training refers to the costs related to the provision of training and capacity building (including twinning
arrangements) such as domestic and foreign travel, room, board and per diem and other administrative expenses
incurred by trainees in connection with their training and capacity building activities; the organization and
delivery of workshops and other dissemination and consultation activities; training facility rental; and the
preparation, production and publication of instructional materials.
3/ Joint Venture Agreement refers to the expenditures for goods, works and consultants' services procured by the
Strategic Partner contracted to design, build and operate the LFG power plant and provide the training activities
referred to in Component A of the project.
4/ Project Management refers to the reasonable recurrent expenditures incurred by the SIMEPRODESO and
SEDESOL project implementation staff, in the daily implementation, management, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of the Project, such as maintenance of facilities and equipment and transportation and per diem of
Project implementation staff, all of which expenditures would not have been incurred without the Project.
- 79 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           0.27      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.32      0.00      0.00       0.59
(0.18)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.27)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.45)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.30      0.00      0.30
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.20)
Total   0.27      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.32      0.30      0.00      0.89
(0.18)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.27)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.65)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 80 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Co-trac Vae                                   Contracts Subject to
Twshold                Procurement              Prior Review
Expnd111re category       (US$ thousands)              Method                (U$$ millions)
1. Works                                                                          none
2. Goods                         <15               National Shopping              none
(aggregate not to exceed
30)
3. Services                      >100                    QCBS                      all
Firms                           <100                      CQ              Terms of Reference only
Individuals                      >50              Individual Consultant            all
<50              Individual consultant  Terms of Reference only
4. Joint Venture                                          ICB                 all (is only one)
Agreement
5. Training                                         QCBS and SOEs                 none
6. Project Management                                    SOEs                     none
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement supervision missions will coincide with the project procurement supervision missions.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 81 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
EX iture Ctgy               A        l0 US$mlliion
Goods                                      0.01                      100 Foreign
100% exfob local
86% other items procured locally
Training                                   0.37                          100
Consultant Services                        0.42                          100
Joint Venture Agreement                    4.92                          50
Project Management                         0.55                          100
Total Project Costs                        6.27
Total                                      6.27
Disbursement Arrangements
A special account in US dollars with an authorized allocation of US $550,000 will be established in
BANOBRAS. All components in the project will use this special account in a manner specified in the
subsidiary agreements for the flow of funds (see Flow of Funds, section C4). Retroactive financing for
urgent expenditures will be allowed in order to facilitate early start-up of the project.
Traditional documentation requirements apply for direct payment and special commitment. If project is
converted to PMR-based disbursement methodology, disbursment procedures should be in line with the
Financial Management Initiative. SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO, with technical support from the
financing agency, BANOBRAS, will prepare the necessary documentation for prompt disbursements and
file the withdrawal applications and requests for replenishments of the special account. The SOE's will
document expenditures below the thresholds for prior review as described in Table B. For expenditures
above prior review thresholds, Bank approval will be required. An operating account in Mexican pesos
would be established and should be used for all project transactions. This local-currency operating account
should be replenished on a monthly basis. The amount to be transferred from the Special Account to this
account must be only that estimated to cover one month of elegible expenditures.
Under the Joint Venture Agreement in component A, the disbursement will be as lump sums against
completed activities as follows: 15% upon contract signing; 40% upon receipt of main equipment at site;
20% against plant completion; 15% against successful startup of plant operation and completion of
performance tests; and 10% against completion of training prior to plant operation. Payments will be
against expenditures incurred.
Retroactive financing. Withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 40,000
under Category (5, Project Management) may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
incurred within the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement, but after April 2, 2001.
- 82 -



- 83 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MEXICO: Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
pr*ct Schedule                                     P M  n l 0A :                A 0tial
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       22
First Bank mission (identification)             02/01/99
Appraisal mission departure                      12/11/2000
Negotiations                                     04/05/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    10/15/2001
Prepared by:
SIMEPRODESO and SEDESOL
Preparation assistance:
ETEISA (prefeasibility and feasbility studies), SCS Engineers (feasibility study and procurement), Brown
Vence and Associates (procurement).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Walter Vergara                    Lead Chemical Engineer
John Morton (Consultant)          Enviromnental Engineer
Teresa Genta Fons                 Senior Counsel, Country Lawyer
Luis Luzuriaga (Consultant)       Institutional Energy Specialist
Esme Abedin                       Operations Analyst
Suman Babbar                      Private Sector
Tomoko Matsukawa                  Private Sector
Andrew Fitchie                    Legal
Kirsten Oleson                    Operations Analyst
Catarina Isabel Portelo (Temporary)   Legal
Amadeu Blasco Munoz (Temporary)   Legal
Lea Braslavsky                    Procurement Specialist
Victor Ordonez                    Financial Specialist
Emesto Terrado (Consultant)       Energy Specialist
Dianalva Montas                   Program Assistant
-84 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MEXICO: Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The important implementation events of the project will be finalized at negotiations and included in the
Grant Agreement.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
PCD and other comments in project file.
C. Other
Proyecto Piloto Para El Aprovechamiento del Biogas de Los Sitios de Disposicion Final de Residuos
Solidos Municipales, Estudio de Factibilidad de Aprovechamiento del Biogas Generado en el Relleno
Sanitario del Area Metropolitana de Monterrey, N. L. Estudios Y Technicas Especializadas en Ingeniera
S. A. de C. V.(ETEISA)
Projecto Piloto Para El Aprovechamiento del Biogas Generado en Sitios de Disposicion Final de Residuos
S6lidos. January, 1999 (Estudio de Prefactibilidad), ETEISA.
Proyecto Pilot Para El Aprovechamiento del Biogas de Sitios de Disposicion Final de Residuos S6lidos
Municipales, presentacion del Estudio de Prefactibilidad, ETEISA.
Proyecto Piloto Para El Aprovechamiento del Biogas Generado en Sitios de Disposicion Final de Residuos
S6lidos. October, 1999, ETEISA.
Estudio Preliminar de Impacto Ambiental Para Proyecto: Conversion de Biogas a Energia Electrica,
SIMEPRODESO, September 2000.
Proyecto Piloto Para El Aprovechamiento de Biogas De los Sitios de Disposicion Final De Residuos
S6lidos Municipales, Analisis Social, ETEISA, September, 2000.
Conditions of Selling Price of Electric Energy from Private's and Cooperative Small Scale Power
Generation, Minister of Mines and Energy, The Republic of Indonesia.
Advancing Sugar Cogeneration Development in Uttar Pradesh, India, Policy Review and Power Purchase
Agreements, George E. St. John, P.E.
Sugarmill Power Sale Contracts, International Cane Energy Network, Winrock International.
Standardised Agreement for Purchase of Electrical Energy Between The Ceylon Electricity Board and
(Renewable Source Small Power Producer).
Electricity Energy Supply Contract and Proposal for Arrangement of Financing. Bio-Gen Project,
Honduras.
Draft Power Purchase Agreement From PT PLN (Persero).
- 85 -



Project Description for Proposed Bamboo Fired Biomass Power Plant Project in Sula Valley, Honduras.
*Including electronic files
- 86-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MEXICO: Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Revd
P048505        1999 AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                             444.45       0.00                             0.00    286.35      -15.70      0.00
P067491        2000 Bank Restructunng Facility                       505.06       0.00                             0.00     150.00      -5.06      0.00
P007700        1997 COMMUNITY FORESTRY                                15.00       0.00                             0.00      7.81        1.91      0.00
P007610        1999 FOVI RESTRUCTURING                               505.05       0.00                             0.00    462.00     242.00       0.00
P007723        1993 HWY RHB & SAFETY                                 480.00       0.00                             0.00      10.50     10.50       0.00
P007667        1992 IRRIG SCTR                                       400.00       0.00                            50.00      2.85      52.85       2.85
P044531        1998 KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.                               300.00       0.00                             0.00    253.77      11.77       0.00
P007648        1993 MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                             200.00       0.00                            23.00     109.01    126.91      91.01
P066867        2000 MX DECENTRALIZATION SAL                          606.07       0.00                             0.00    300.00     300.00       0.00
P066938        2000 MX GENDER (LIL)                                    3.07       0.00                             0.00       3.07      0.00       0.00
P007720        1998 MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - SAL                   700.00       0.00                             0.00    350.00     350.00       0.00
P040199        1998 MX: BASIC EDUC.DEVELOPMENT PHASE I               115.00       0.00                             0.00     84.00      29.18       0.00
P007689        1996 MX: BASIC HEALTH 11                              310.00       0.00                             0.00     99.78      61.78      31.78
P055061        1998 MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                       25.00       0.00                             0.00     21.39       15.59      0.00
P049895        1998 MX: HIGHER ED. FINANCING                          180.20      0.00                             0.00     165.94     26.00       0.00
P007725        1994 MX: PRIMARY EDUC.II                              412.00       0.00                            40.00     86.25      126.25     86.25
P034490        1995 MX: TECHNICAL EDUCITRAINING                      265.00       0.00                            30.00     132.13     162.13      7.10
P007710        1994 N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                             368.00       0.00                           300.99      36.22     317.51     43.61
P007701        1994 ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI                             200.00       0.00                            30.00     53.71      83.71       0.01
P007711        1998 RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA                              47.00       0.00                             0.00      35.94      12.94      0.00
P057530        2000 RURAL DEV.MARG.ARII                               55.00       0.00                             0.00      55.00       0.00      0.00
P007702        1995 SECOND DECENTRALZTN                              500.00       0.00                             0.00      58.28     58.28      58.28
P007612        1994 SOLID WASTE II                                   200.00       0.00                           193.06       1.48      -4.46      1A7
P007713        1996 WATER RESOURCES MANA                             186.50       0.00                             0.00     138.41     59.09      10.62
P007707        1994 WATER/SANIT II                                   350.00       0.00                            84.30      71.42     155.72      0.00
Total:    7372.40        0.00                          751.35     2955.31    2178.90     332.98
- 87-



MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1988/91/92/93/95   Apasco                       14.40    0.00    0.00   57.60   14.40    0.00    0.00   57.60
1998               Ayvi                         10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92/96         BANAMEX                      96.21    0.00    0.00   50.83   96.21    0.00    0.00   50.83
1997               Banco Bilbao MXC             75.52    0.00   30.00    0.00   75.52    0.00   30.00    0.00
1992               Banorte-SABROZA               3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/96            Baring Mex. FMC               0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00
1995/99            Baring Venture                0.00    2.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               CIMA Mexico                   0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00
1998               CIMA Puebla                   7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               CTAPV                         4.01    0.00    2.53    0.00    4.01    0.00    2.53    0.00
0                Chiapas-Propalma               0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00
1997               Comercializadora              3.28    0.00    2.34    6.88    3.28    0.00    2.34    6.88
1990/91            Condumex                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Corsa                        13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00   13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Derivados                     2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Fondo Chiapas                 0.00    4.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00
1998               Foja Monterrey               13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00   13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00
1991/96            GIBSA                        21.64    0.00   10.00   72.76   21.64    0.00    10.00   72.76
1993               GIDESA                        7.50    8.00    0.00    8.50    7.50    8.00    0.00    8.50
1996/00            GIRSA                        45.00    0.00    0.00   60.00   22.71    0.00    0.00   30.29
1993               GOTM                          0.98    0.00    0.00    0.44    0.98    0.00    0.00    0.44
1997/98            Gen. Hipotecaria              0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Grupo Calidra                12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00   12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00
Grupo FEMSA                   0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00
1989               Grupo Minsa                  18.00   10.00    0.00   27.00   18.00   10.00    0.00   27.00
1997               Grupo Posadas                25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00   25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00
1992/93/95/96/99   Grupo Probursa                0.00    1.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.32    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97/98      Grupo Sanfandila              9.58    0.00    0.00    4.70    6.25    0.00    0.00    3.03
1998               Heller Financial              0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1994/96/98/00      Interceramic                  8.00    0.00    6.00    3.50    8.00    0.00    6.00    3.50
1994              InverCap                       0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Masterpak                     2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Merida III                   30.00    0.00    0.00   73.95   27.36    0.00    0.00   67.44
1998               Mexplus Puertos               0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1995/99            NEMAK                         0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00
1996/99/00         Petrocel                      1.30    0.00    0.60    0.70    1.30    0.00    0.60    0.70
1990               Punta Langosta                2.63    1.00    0.00    4.55    2.63    1.00    0.00    4.55
1998               Rio Bravo                    50.00    0.00    0.00   59.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Saltillo S.A.                35.00    0.00    0.00   43.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Sigma                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/94/95         Sudamerica                    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999               TMA                           2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60    2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60
1997               Toluca Toll Road              7.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.23    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               Vitro                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/92
Total Portfolio:      525.61    98.54   64.40   518.58  408.85   67.85   64.40  378.19
- 88 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1997              Altamira                      17800.00   1000.00      0.00  38000.00
1999              BANAMEX LRF II                50000.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1999              Baring BMPEF FMC                  0.00      0.00     60.00     0.00
1998              Cima Hermosillo                7000.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              Educacion                      9700.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              FCCM                          10500.00      0.00   2000.00  17700.00
2000              Hospital ABC                  30000.00      0.00      0.00  14000.00
2000              ITR                           14000.00      0.00      0.00   4000.00
2000              Innopack                      15000.00      0.00  15000.00      0.00
2000              Teksid Aluminio               25000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              Teksid Hierro                 15000.00      0.00      0.00  30000.00
Total Pending Commitment:   194000.00   1000.00  17060.00 103700.00
- 89-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MEXICO: Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-  .  
Mexico   & Carib.  Income        Development diamond*
1998
Pooulation. mid-year fmillions)                        95.9       502       5B8                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    3,970     3,940     4,860
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      380.9      1,978    2,862
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%J                                          1.8        1.6       1.4
Labor force (%)                                         2.6       2.3        2.0      GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1992-98)                                per                             primary
capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% oftotal populat/on)                 74         75        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72         70        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                31         32        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               14         8         ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   95        75        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     10        13        11
Gross primarv enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   115        113       108        -     exico
Male                                                 116          ..        ..             Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                            87.4    140.2     401.7      410.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                21,6      19.2      26.0       24 4
Exports of goods and services/GDP              8.6     19.5      30.3       31.2                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GOP                   20.6      25.3      26 0       22.4
Gross national savinas/GOP                    18,2     21,8      24;1       20.6
Current account balance/GDP                   -2.2      3.0       -1.9      -3.8                      / \
Interest avyments/GDP                          1.8      5.5       2,1        2.0     Domestic    -      )         Investment
Total debt/GOP                                35,7     78.1       37.3      39.0     Savings
Total debt service/exports                    57.4     40.1       32.4      18.8
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..      36.0       38.2
Present value of debt/exports                   .,       ,,    110.3       106.0
Indebtedness
1977-87  18S-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(average annua/ orowth)
GOP                                  2.2       2.9      6.8        4.8       4.8         MMexico
GNP per capita                       0.1       0.5      6.0        2.9       2.9          -    Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        9.4      12.3     10.8        9.7       6.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Aqriculture                                   10.2      8.6        5.7       5.4
Industrv                                     30.7      35.9      28.5      29.1      20 .       
Manufacturing                               22.4     25.7       21.4      21.9               o
Services                                      59.1     55.5       65.8      65.5    -20                       96   97   98
Private consumption                          69.6      65.9      64.1       68.2    .40
General government consumDtion                 9.8      8.8        9.9       94G                             --o'-
Imports of goods and services                 9.6      13.4      30.4       33.2
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annua1 growthl)
Agriculture                                    2.2      1.6        0.2       0.5    40
Industrv                                       2.7      3.5        9.3       6.6
Manufacturing                                2.3      3.9       10.0       7.4    20
Services                                       2.1      2.7        6.4       4.4
Private consumDtion                            2.2      2.5        6.4       6.4      o8
General government consumDtion                 5.2      1.8        2.9      -1.3
Gross domestic investment                     -4.6      4.1       25.0       8.4    .20
ImDorts of goods and services                 -1.3     12.1       22.8      14.2             -Exports           Oimports
Gross national product                         2.6      2.4        7.9       4.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 90 -



Additional
Annex 11
Environmental Management Plan
An environmental assessment for the Salinas Victoria LFG facility was finalized on September 19, 2000
and approved by the Bank on March 30, 2001. As a result of the assessment, an "Environmental
Management Plan" (EMP), an instrument that details i) the measures to be taken during implementation
and operation of the project to eliminate or offset adverse environmental impacts, or to reduce them to
acceptable levels; and ii) the actions needed implement these measures, was drafted. The EMP was agreed
upon and finalized at negotiations. It is shown below As a condition of disbursement, the EMP will be
incorporated into signed contracts of the Cogeneration Company that specify the procedures for
implementation of the EMP and the responsible parties (see Main Grant Conditions, section G).
The EMP is shown below:
Overall, the installation and operation of a LFG - fueled power plant will significantly improve the
environment. The primary environmental benefit is the collection and destruction of volatile organic
compounds (VOCs) and methane. VOCs contribute to low level ozone formation (a precursor to smog)
and methane is a potent greenhouse gas. The secondary emissions of nitrogen oxides (another smog
forming compound) by the engine generators will be more than offset by the destruction of VOCs and the
offsetting of fossil fuels that would otherwise be used to generate the electricity produced by the plant. In
addition to emissions reductions, LFG collection will control and reduce odors and subsurface methane
migration.
Notwithstanding the above environmental benefits, the project does pose several potential environmental
impacts, which are discussed herein. Each environmental issue is presented along with measures to address
the same (i.e., to minimize the potential impact). A portion of the costs of the environmental management
plan (the emissions tests and the methane monitoring system and the monitoring and evaluation
documentation) will be covered by the Project Management component of the project. The rest will be
specified as construction requirements in the bidding documents. The entity responsible for operation of
the plant will implement the related portion of environmental management plan (power plant emissions,
engine waste oil, LFG condensate, spent engine coolant, noise, construction-related effects, fire hazard and
occupational health and safety). The responsible entity will be Strategic Partner for the first 5 years of the
project. After this time, the responsibility will be shared by SIMEPRODESO and the Strategic Partner.
The Strategic Partner will be responsible for the operator training including the procedures outlined in the
EMP. The methane migration will portion of the EMP is related to landfill management and therefore the
responsibility of SIMEPRODESO.
Power Plant and Emissions
Internal combustion engine generators emit significant levels of carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides
(NOx). When engine generators are viewed as a pollution control device (via destruction of VOCs and
methane), NOx and CO become secondary pollutants. Nonetheless, emission levels from this equipment
has been sufficient to cause some US projects to be classified as a major source in areas where reduction of
emissions is a priority. In response to the demand for lower emissions, the engine generator manufacturers
have developed lean bum technology to achieve significant reductions. To take advantage of the improved
technology, the Salinas Victoria project specifications will require lean burn equipment to be used in the
power plant. In addition, a stack test, which measures emissions from each engine, will be required to
- 91 -



demonstrate compliance with Mexican regulations, any Monterrey airshed management plans and the latest
industry standards. This is consistent with World Bank guidelines that recommend compliance with any
national or local airshed management programs. Likewise, operations and maintenance requirements will
specify that the equipment be operated and maintained in accordance with manufacturer's requirements and
within the parameters measured at the time stack test compliance was achieved. Operation and
maintenance records as well as the results of the stack test will be documented for monitoring and
evaluation purposes. The costs of implementation of the emissions tests will be covered by the Project
Management component.
Engine Waste Oil
Because of the corrosive nature of the LFG fueling the engines, the lubricating oil needs to be changed
regularly. As such, waste oil is generated and must be managed appropriately. Typically, the oil is
handled in a closed system that automatically pumps the waste oil to a storage tank. The waste oil is
relatively free of particulates and is sometimes can be sold as fuel. SIMEPRODESO already manages
waste oil generated by heavy equipment operated on the landfill. This oil is collected and trucked offsite to
a government approved hazardous waste treatment facility. The waste oil from the engines will be
managed in the same manner unless a more beneficial method is identified. The amount of waste oil
produced and the handling procedures will be documented by the operator (Strategic Partner and/or
SIMEPRODESO) for monitoring and evaluation purposes. The tanks and other necessary infrastructure to
implement this will be specified in the bidding documents.
Landfill Gas Condensate
Condensate is formed as LFG cools in the collection system piping and the treatment vessels at the power
plant and is similar in composition as landfill leachate. The condensate in the collection system is returned
to the landfill refuse mass via a series of traps buried in the waste. Condensate will be collected at the
power plant and stored in a tank. This condensate will be recirculated back to the landfill along with
collected leachate. SIMEPRODESO's current practice is to periodically pump out leachate from a series
of riser pipes in the north end of the cell and return it to the refuse. Given the arid conditions at the site, the
waste in place is well below its moisture field capacity and can easily absorb the condensate planned for
recirculation. The collection and recirculation procedure including the frequency and volume of condensate
will be documented for monitoring and evaluation purposes. The tanks and other necessary infrastructure
to implement this will be specified in the bidding documents.
Groundwater Monitoring
SIMEPRODESO monitors the groundwater for contamination monthly in compliance with Mexican
environmental laws. Under this project these groundwater monitoring practices will continue.
Spent Engine Coolant
The cooling medium for the engines contains anti-freeze (ethylene glycol) and requires periodic
replacement. Similar to the requirements for waste oil management, the spent coolant will require
collection, storage and offsite disposal. This procedure will be documented in the same fashion as the
waste oil. The tanks and other necessary infrastructure to implement this will be specified in the bidding
documents.
Noise
- 92-



Engine generators produce a lot of noise and hearing protection must be worn in the engine room. The
extent to which this noise can be a nuisance depends on the building construction and the proximity to
landfill neighbors. Most buildings effectively limit noise to the outside except when the bay doors are open,
which may be frequent when the operator is working in the engine room and wants to increase ventilation.
Requirements for construction of an engine house that limits noise will be included in the bidding
documents. In addition, the proposed location of the power plant for this project is far from any neighbors
and is not anticipated to be a problem. Any complaints will be noted for monitoring and evaluation
purposes.
Construction-related effects
During construction waste will be produced from the water used at the construction facilities and from the
scrap construction materials. Construction activities will also increase noise and vehicular emissions at the
site and cause the suspension of particulates. The bidding documents will specify that proper waste
management practices be used durinig construction. In addition, construction practices that minimize noise
and pollution will be required.
Fire Hazard
LFG will be delivered to the engines under pressure. As such, leaks in the piping, fittings, and valves could
result in a the release of the flammable gas. To reduce the risk of explosion, compressors will be located
outdoors and methane detectors linked to a fire suppression and alarm system will be installed near the
indoor equipment. Any leaks will be addressed and documented for monitoring and evaluation purposes.
This will be a requirement specified in the bidding documents.
Methane Migration
As noted above, the project will reduce the potential for offsite subsurface methane migration. However,
the landfill currently lacks a system of perimeter methane monitoring wells. As part of this project,
monitoring wells will be installed between the landfill limits and the facility property boundary. These
wells will docurnent both the effectiveness of the landfill liner systems and the proposed LFG collection
system. Monitoring and record keeping should be performed on a quarterly basis as is typical in the United
States and Canada. The costs of implementation will be covered by the Project Management component.
Occupational Health and Safety Issues
The criteria for selection of the Strategic Partner who will be responsible for construction, operation and
training activities will include an evaluation of the companies environmental and safety record. Within the
contractual agreements of the Cogeneration Company and the bidding documents, occupational and safety
practices based on intemationally-recognized standards will be specified. Accident and medical records
will be documented for monitoring and evaluation purposes.
Annual Environmental Summary
The environmental performance of the plant will be tracked during the project and summarized in annual
reports that include the following indicators: i) methane captured; ii) methane used for electricity; iii)
methane flared; iv) results of any engine emissions tests; v) engine maintenance records as compared to
manufacturers suggestions; vi) engine waste oil and coolant handling records; vii) complaints from
- 93 -



neighbors by type (noise, emissions, other); vii) methane leaks detected on methane conveyance system near
or in engine house; and ix) underground methane concentrations on perimeter of landfill. This report will
be produced annually after plant is operational.
- 94 -



Additional
Annex 12
Financial Analysis from Perspective of Strategic Partner
Through an international competitive bidding process, SIMEPRODESO will select a private -ector
Strategic Partner who will provide technical capacity and will invest in the project. To insure ihe project
will be able to attract private sector investment, a financial analysis was performed from the rt rspective of
the private sector partner.
The project team contacted several of the prospective bidding companies to ask their opinion .n the
institutional structure of the Salinas Victoria project, typical financing arrangements, typical, ates of return
and the critical risks. In addition, the project team consulted financial experts at the Bank and in Mexico,
energy experts at the Bank and LFG industry experts in the US.
Institutional Arrangements: Prospective bidders and industry experts did not anticipate any problems with
the proposed Cogeneration Company institutional setup (as described in the Institutional sec:ion of the
Summary Analysis).
Typical financing arranyements: It is common for projects such as this to be financed with a combination
of debt and equity. Common financing setups for LFG projects involve between 25 and 40% equity with
the remainder as debt. Some projects have been financed entirely by equity and therefore this needs to be
considered as a possibility.
Typical rates of return
The industry generally expects 20-25% return on their investment over 10 years.
Profit sharing arrangement
The fact that SIMEPRODESOs equity contribution will come from the GEF grant, provides a means of
increasing the Strategic Partner's rate of return to higher levels than would be expected otherwise. This
will be done by providing the Strategic Partner a disproportionate amount of profits (approximately
80-100%) in the first five years.
Financial rate of return for private investor
Using the typical financing arrangements explained above and accounting for debt service, the rate of
return on the Strategic Partner's equity investment was calculated. The conditions of the loan were based
on what would be expected from a US bank for a project in Mexico (13% over 5 years).
Return on Strategic Partner's Investment Under Different Financing Arrangements
% Equity Financing                    Return on Equity Investment over 10 years*
25%                                            31-48%
40%                                            25-37%
100%                                            17-23%
'Range expected depending on profit sharing setup. It is expected that between 80-100% of the profits will go to the strategic partner in first five
years of project with profits shared in proportion to initial capital contributions thereafter.
The analysis summarized in the above table shows that, under typical financing conditions, the project is
well above the industry expectations of 20-25% return over 10 years. Where debt financing is not used
(100% equity) the rate of return can be met with the strategic partner receiving a higher share of the profits
than under the debt financing setup.
- 95 -



It should be noted that the rates of return shown above are the range of returns that can occur under the
possible profit sharing and financing arrangements in the project. They show that, under the proposed
company structure, it is possible for the Strategic Partner to receive adequate returns. The actual profit
sharing and financing arrangements (as well as other factors such as investment costs) will be detertnined
by the Strategic Partner in the bidding process. For bidding, the private sector company will be required to
maximize SIMEPRODESO's benefits. They will thus pick a profit sharing and financing arrangement on
the basis of the minimum return they would need to participate in the project. This will provide an efficient
way to establish a company financial structure that will both attract private investment and maximize the
benefits of the project to SIMEPRODESO's landfill operation.
Risks
Based on conversations with prospective bidders, Bank energy, financial and legal experts and a financing
consultant in Mexico, the risks to the private sector strategic partner were determined to be: (i) the stability
of the high tariff charged by CFE to the Municipality of Monterrey for street lighting; and (ii) the risk of
non-payment by the electricity consumers. In order to mitigate these risks (described below), measures
have been developed and are being reviewed by Bank financial and legal experts. These experts will review
and clear the draft contracts of the Cogeneration Company (including the risk mitigation measures) before
board presentation.
Stability of Tarifffor Street Lighting:
The proposed tariff to be charged to the electricity consumers is based on a discount on the current costs of
electricity charged by CFE. The future sustainability of the CFE tariff schedule is thus an important risk to
project profitability and financing. Trends in the tariff have shown a constant increase in the tariff with no
indication by CFE that it will be reduced. The threat of a change in the tariff schedule is not a due to
government proposals or statements but rather arises from the fact that the tariff schedule is antiquated and
thus may become a target for reform in the future. This risk will be mitigated by providing the Strategic
Partner the option of receiving a disproportionate amount of profits in the first 5 years of the project, thus
allowing their investment to be paid off quickly (estimated to occur within 4-5 years). As it is less likely
tariff reform will occur in this time, the risk will be reduced significantly. As an additional measure, a
tariff structure that includes a minimum payment that would allow the investment costs to be recuperated if
the CFE tariff changes and the Cogeneration Company is forced to sell to the CFE grid also is being
considered. These and other potential risk mitigation measures are being reviewed by Bank financial and
legal experts who will also provide clearance of the associated contracts before board presentation (see
Section G., Main Grant Conditions).
Non-payment by Electricity Consumers:
The risk of non-payment by electricity consumers is also an important potential barrier to financing. In the
case of the Municipality of Monterrey, which will use the most electricity and will pay the highest tariff,
their rating was found to be AA (Standard and Poors) and AA- (Moodys). The ratings of the other
electricity consumers will be evaluated during the preparation of the bidding documents that will be
finalized before board presentation. A "take or pay" payment structure will be also be used as an added
safeguard. Additionally, several risk mitigation measures are being considered by Bank financial and legal
experts reviewing the contracts. The review of the contracts will be completed for inclusion in the
finalized bidding documents (a condition of Board presentation, see section G. Main Grant Conditions).
- 96 -



Additional
Annex 13
Description of the Mexican Electric Power Sector
Overview
The economic growth of the Mexican economy during the last decade resulted in a 5.2% average annual
growth in electricity demand over the same time period. Total installed capacity in Mexico in 1999 was
35,000 MW and future demand is expected to grow 5.8% per year until 2010. This growth will require
27,000 MW of additional generating capacity at a cost of close to four billion dollars per year. Access to
electricity in the country is high, 95% of the Mexicans have electric service.
Demand of Power in the Monterrey Area
The State of Nuevo Le6n is served by CFE as part of the North-eastern Zone, and includes the
municipalities of Monterrey, Garcia, Santa Catarina, San Nicolas de la Garza, General Escobedo, Apodaca
and Guadalupe. These municipalities combined have a population of approximately 4 million people.
Total demand of the State of Nuevo Le6n in 1999 was 2,285 MW, which was served with local power
plants (1,145 MW) and power imported from the National Transmission System (1,149 MW).
The Municipality of Monterrey, a future partner in the Co-generation Company, has a demand of about
10.4 MW to power about 70,000 streetlights in the City of Monterrey. The average tariff paid to CFE for
this energy is approximately 12.0 cents of US$ per kWh. The demand of Servicios de Agua y Drenaje (the
water utility) for pumping of potable water and sewerage is high, on the order 25 MW. The loads that
could be serviced by the Co-generation Company amount to about 6.0 MW. The average tariff paid to
CFE is 6.7 cents of US$ per kWh (daytime tariffs). SIMEPRODESO will require about 1 MW for the
operation of its Materials Recovery Facility when it is in full operation.
Power Sector Regulations
Article 27 of the Constitution of Mexico provides exclusive rights to the state for electric power generation,
transmission and distribution for public service. Until 1992, the state owned Comisi6n Federal de
Electricidad (CFE) and Compafiia de Luz y Fuerza del Centro (CLFC) were the only players in the power
sector. This situation changed in 1992 when the Ley del Servicio Pdiblico de Energia Electrica (the
Electricity Law) was modified to allow participation of private investors in power generation. Since then,
private parties can: i) generate power for self consumption, i.e., for co-generation or for small industries;
ii) generate power as independent power producers for exclusive sale to CFE; iii) generate power for
emergencies in the case of the failure of the public service system; and iv) import power for self
consumption.
The Comisi6n Reguladora de Energia (CRE), created in 1995, is the entity that provides the required
permits to private investors to install or import electric power. It was agreed at negotiations, that
SIMEPRODESO would apply and receive from CRE a permit for the co-generation of electricity in its
landfill and thereafter maintain the permit thoughout project implementation.
- 97 -



The Future of Mexico's Power Sector
The tremendous investments required to support the growth in the power sector can no longer be financed
by the state owned companies alone and therefore there is growing pressure to restructure and open the
power sector to private investors. It is expected that, in addition to bringing to the power sector the
required capital, restructuring the sector would promote efficiency and competition in the electric power
market, which should benefit the users. The changes proposed by the outgoing administration, which
Congress decided to postpone for future consideration, are focused on the vertical and horizontal
unbundling of the existing companies (CFE and CLFC), and the subsequent formation of several generation
and distribution companies and a national transmission company. A national power market, to which all
qualified players would have access, would be created.
- 98 -



Additional
Annex 14
Background Information
Solid Waste Management II Project (3752-ME)
BANOBRAS
SEDESOL
1. Solid Waste Management II Project (Loan 3752-ME) Background
The project was originally approved by the Board in June 9, 1994. In December 1994, the
Mexican economy suffered a recession, lasting over two years. At the time, high interest rates contributed
to a downturn in economic activity and drastic cuts in the federal budget. Because of these fiscal
difficulties and despite significant efforts to maintain the viability of the project, BANOBRAS (Banco
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Piblicos), the implementing agency, requested the cancellation of
US$193.06 out of the original loan of US$200 million.
Despite the lack of resources, during the first two years of the "crisis", the implementing agencies
carried out a significant share of the activities originally intended to be supported through the institutional
and technical assistance components of the project. The capacity of the implementing agencies to appraise
and supervise solid waste projects and provide technical assistance to the municipalities has been
strengthened. Likewise, the regulatory framework has been improved by the enactment of the federal
standard on disposal sites and the development of model regulations for the operation of municipal solid
waste services.
The main obiectives of the Solid Waste Management I project were to:
*   Implement a pilot program of sustainable solid waste management at selected municipalities;
e   Strengthen the capacity of BANOBRAS & SEDESOL (Secretaria de Desarrollo Social) to appraise
and supervise solid waste projects and provide technical assistance to municipalities and states;
*   Increase technical, administrative and regulatory capacity of agencies at the state and local level in
order to improve sector management and operations; and,
*   Improve the legal and regulatory framework and cost recovery mechanisms of the sector to safeguard
the environment.
The project has achieved many of its objectives:
*   Training on solid waste management was provided to 400 persons, along with technical assistance to
more than 90 municipalities. The whole operation benefited a total of 190 municipalities;
*  Editing, publication and distribution of 19 technical-administrative guides was carried out; and,
*   Elaboration of 34 executive projects for landfills was supported, 28 in medium cities and 6 in small
cities.
2. BANOBRAS' role
BANOBRAS is the government instrument for financing project investments in the sectors of
infrastructure, public service and environment, including solid waste management projects. Its clients are
as follows:
- 99 -



* The Federal Government, its organizations and private companies;
* The Government of the Federal District, State and Municipal Governments, as well as its organizations
and state and municipal counterparts, and;
* The private sector, under special programs promoted by the governments or grant-based projects.
3. SEDESOL's role:
According to the article 32, section XIV and XV of the Organic Law of the Federal Public Administration
and the article 24, section I and II of the SEDESOL's Internal Regulation, SEDESOL has the following
duties:
XIV. To promote and support financial mechanisms for social welfare, urban regional development, as well
as for housing and environmental protection, with the participation of the corresponding Federal Public
Administration entities, the State and Municipal governments, the credit institutions and the various social
groups.
XV. To promote, in coordination with the state and municipal governments, and the private sector
involvement, the construction of equipment and infrastructures for the regional and urban development, the
social welfare and environmental protection and remediation.
SEDESOL's internal regulation
Art. 24 - The following items correspond to the responsibilities of the Division of Infrastructure and
Equipment (Direcci6n General de Infraestructura y Equipamiento) responsibilities:
I. To promote, in coordination with the Division for Urban Development and Housing Financing (Direcci6n
General de Financiamento para el Desarrollo Urbano y la Vivienda), investment programs and investment
projects in infrastructure and equipment (solid waste management) that support the regional and urban
development and the social welfare. This is accomplished with the participation of the state and municipal
governments, and with private and social sector involvement.
Ii. To formulate studies and projects, as well to participate in the promotion of actions, construction,
infrastructure services, and equipment (solid waste management ) that support the regional and urban
development, and social welfare.
The Division of Municipal Solid Waste (Direcci6n de Residuos S6lidos Municipales), under the Division of
Infrastructure and Equipment is in charge of solid waste management within SEDESOL.
SEDESOL, with the help of the lessons learned during the Solid Waste Management II Project, acts as the
national clearinghouse for information on solid waste management.
SEDESOL's strategy to improve the quality of the current solid waste management is:
* To extend the collection and disposal system by means of comprehensive projects;
* To increase investment funds base by reorienting fiscal resources, encouraging the participation of the
private sector in the collection and disposal services of the solid wastes, broadening the credit lines, and
increasing the investment returns through tariffs and quotas;
* To provide incentives for the adoption of alternative technologies that reduce cost and increase the
- 100-



efficiency of collection and disposal;
* To strengthen the legal framework for solid waste management focusing on the creation of
decentralized operators, establishment of recovery quotas and provision of investment guarantees to the
private sector;
* To create and strengthen operator organizations in solid waste management; and;
*   To increase public participation on the solid waste system through education and environmental
awareness.
4. Lessons learned from previous Bank involvement
The Bank's involvement in the sector to date has been through the Solid Waste Management Pilot project
(Loan 2660-ME) and the now closed Solid Waste Management II project. The main lessons leamed were:
* The importance of developing integrated plans for municipal solid waste management to avoid
piecemeal approaches to investments and ensure satisfactory environmental controls;
* The need to have full cost recovery to promote sustainability of investments and efficient service
delivery;
* The elimination of conflicting sources of finance for solid waste management and the provision of
adequate counterpart funding; and,
D Avoidance of complex multi-sectoral, multi-institutional projects.
Many of these lessons were integrated in the Solid Waste Management II Project design, with
particular emphasis on an integrated solution to municipal solid waste management and the use of full cost
recovery and sustainable collection mechanisms.
- 101 -



Additional
Annex 15
Estimation of Landfill Gas Production and Electricity Generation
LFG Production
LFG production was estimated using a model developed by the USEPA referred to as "USEPA E-PLUS".
The model is shown below:
Q, =kRLe-kTX
QT-= flow of methane gas in year T for waste deposited in year X (m3/yr)
X= year waste was added to landfill
T= current year
Lo= methane gas generation potential (m3/ton waste)
k= methane gas generation constant (1/yr)
R.= the total residue deposited in year X
Parameter Estimation
Among the most important parameters in this model are the methane gas generation constant (k) and the
methane gas generation potential (L). L was estimated using typical values from operating US LFG
projects and adjusting for differences in the composition of the SIMEPRODESO waste. k was estimated
by measuring the methane gas production on site and using the USEPA E-PLUS model equation to solve
for k.
The methane gas generation potential (L)
Using flow data from operating U.S. LFG projects, a relationship between apparent values of Lo and
annual precipitation was determined. Based on this relationship and the annual precipitation in Monterrey,
an L of 134 m /Mg was estimated.
This L was then adjusted to account for the higher food content and thus higher moisture content of
Mexican waste relative to US waste (see Annex 16 for waste characteristics). This was done using the
measured food waste content at the SIMEPRODESO landfill (38%) and typical food content and moisture
content values of US waste (25% moisture content and 6.7% food content). It was also assumed that food
waste has a moisture content of 70%. Given this data and assumption, the larger food waste content at the
SIMEPRODESO landfill increases the waste moisture content from 25% to 46.6%. This increased
moisture content reduces the Lo value from 134 m 3/Mg (for the US-based estimate) to 95.4 m3/Mg (for the
SIMEPRODESO waste).
The methane gas generation constant (k)
A pump test was conducted at a representative location in the closed 44 ha cell of the SIMEPRODESO
landfill (see picture on following page) and the data were analyzed using the USEPA Method 2E in order to
estimate k.
- 102-



The approach was as follows:
*  Landfill gas was extracted from a test well at a rate equal to the production of the LFG (i.e. the steady
state flow rate) and the influence of the well extraction was measured by the change in pressure at
monitoring probes installed at various distances from the extraction well. The radius of influence of
the well and thus the area around the well from which gas could be extracted was then estimated from
these measurements.
*  Based on the landfill depth and the radius of influence, the volume of waste influenced (i.e. the volume
contributing gas to the well) was then calculated.
* The corresponding waste mass (R) is then determined by multiplying the volume of waste by the
estimated waste density.
*  As the rate of gas extraction equaled the rate of gas production, the measured steady state flow rate
could be taken as the rate of LFG production. In order to determine the rate of methane production,
this number was multiplied by 0.5 to account for the 50% methane content of LFG. This flow rate was
then related to the waste mass, average age and Lo using the USEPA E-PLUS model equation in order
to solve for k.
Operator Performing the Pump Test at
the SIMEPRODESO Landfill
Based on the data from the SIMEPRODESO landfill, the radius of influence of the well was estimated to
be 38 meters. The pump test also indicated the gas flows were unimpeded by any barriers such as the clay
filling used in landfilling. The LFG generation constant was calculated using the USEPA E-PLUS
equation (above) and the following parameters:
Parameters used in USEPA Method 2E to estimate the LEG generation constant (k)
Parameter                      Value                         Basis
waste depth                   22 meters                SIMEPRODESO data
radius of influence of well         38 meters                  field pump test
steady state flow              1.736 m'/min                field pump test
average waste age                 5 years                SIMEPRODESO data
waste density                 0.71 Mg/mi           typical value for 'in place' waste
methane gas generation potential      95.4 m3/Mg             estimated as described above
(L o)_ _             _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _   _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _
The LFG generation constant (k) was found to be 0.0606/yr. This corresponded with a recommended value
(0.066 /yr) that was developed based on previous studies and adapted to the Monterrey conditions. Since
the variables of the pump test program can be interpreted in different ways, the test results were considered
to be confirmation of the recommended k value (0.066/yr), which was used for the model estimation of the
- 103 -



gas production. The rest of the parameters used in the LFG production model are shown in the following
table.
In ut arameters for model used to estimate gas production at the SIMEPRODESO landfill.
Parameter                                             Value                                       Basis
Methane gas generation constant (k)                  0.066/yr           Precipitation-based value increased to account for highly degradable
food waste. The value was consistent with that found from a 'pump test'
at the site (0.0606/yr). The pump test was able to estimate the methane
production rate by determining the rate of methane extraction (by the
pump) necessary to balance the rate of methane production (by the
portion of the waste that methane was extracted from). (see detailed
description above)
Waste methane gas generation                 95.4 m  CH /Mg waste Estimated based on value of US waste accounting for the differences in
.         4g            moisture content resulting from the higher waste food content in the
potential (Lo)                                                          SIMEPRODESO landfill. (see detailed description above)
Waste cell area                                       44 ha             SIMEPRODESO data.
Waste depth                                         22 meters           SIMEPRODESO data.
Waste density                                      0.71 Mg/m            Typical value for in place' waste.
Waste age (year 2000)                            5 years average        SIMEPRODESO fill history.
Concentration of methane in LFG                        50%              Typical value confirmed by measurement at site (actual measurements
ranged from 50-60%).
Model Results
The model was used to estimate the methane production over the project lifetime (top line in graph below).
The amount of methane captured was determnined assuming a 70% capture efficiency (bottom line in graph
below).
Estimated Methane Production (top line) and Capture (bottom line)
Over the Lifetime of the Project
30
o   25
0
"E -- 10 m1= ,r xD o0 C> 
2,  D   D  >Is 
~~~~~ 104
0 N      'C  0  ' N .        4' C0
Year
The model predicted that, over the lifetime of the project, 313 million m' of methane will be produced by
the landfill. Of that 214 million m' of methane, equivalent to 858,000 tC, will be captured by the LFG
collection system.
- 104 -



Electric Energy Production
Assuming an engine thermal conversion efficiency of 34% and that the engines are running at 85% capacity
(i.e. 15% down time due to maintenance and repairs), the 44 ha closed cell at SIMEPRODESO will
produce enough methane to generate 700 GWh of electrical energy over the lifetime of the project. This
will require 3 x 2 MW + 1 x 1 MW (or equivalent) engines for a total installed capacity of 7 MW and an
operating capacity of 6 MW (after accounting for down time). The yearly electricity production is
summarized in the table below.
Electric Enerv Production from the SIMEPRODESO Landfill Gas
Methane       Methane      Thermal      Electric    _
Prouction      Capture      Enercv       Eneray                                                                                                      _
Annual
Thenneicmn                                                                                                               equiv.
_70             8,460      Conion                       I   ld C   acitv      _                                 neravG   erated                   capacity
kcal I M3      34%         U1   U2             U3        U4       TOTAL         Ul        U2     UA3          U4       TOTAL
860                __f__              _      _f .                                   f .D      fD. P
kcal / kWh     =         =        =                              variable    85%       85%      85'%
mmM3          mmM3          Gcal         MWh         kW    hW    kW    kW                     kW         MWh , MWh   MWh   MWh    MWh_  Kw
aho                                                                                                 .                          _                                      .
2001              0.0     0     00 _________   ______                                                              0                         0         0_____  0___     ___   0
_ 2002              14.3          10.0      84.537          42     2.00                           1.000        7.000   14.892   14.89 2   14.892          7,446  _   26.,061     5.g9a
2003              26.7         18.7     158.177       62535       2. 000     2000    2,000     1.000 I      7.000    14,892    14,892    14,892     7,446       52,122         5.950
2004             25.0          17.5     148.109       58,555     2,000      2 000      2.000   1.000        7.000   14.892    14.892    14892       7,446       52.122        5.950
.2005...           23.4         16.4      138.693                  2.000               2.00      1.000        7.00    14.892   14.89 1  14.8: 72.44               52.122        5.9s0
2006             21.9          15.3     129.810        51320     2.000      2.000      2.000   1.000        7.000   14.090    14892    14892        7.446       51.320        5,858
2007             20.5          14.4     121.401       47996       2.00     2         2000      1.000        7.000   10.766   14892    1489          7446        47.996        5,479
2008              19.2         13.4     113.702       44.952    2.0        2.000       2   . 1  .00       .000        7.722   14         14.2       74          44.952        5.132
2009 _            18.0         1 2.6    1068478       42.09    2.00        2.00-      2.00      1.000       7.000    4.86      14     .       14.89      .4     42.           4.805
2010              16.8         11.8       99.608      39.380      2,00W     2'000    2.000      1.000       7.000    2.150   1 14.89 2 69;    7 446             39.380        4.495
2011              15.8         11.0      93.272       36.877     2.000    2.000    2.000           0        6.000    7.091   14.89;           2         0       36.875        4.209
2012              14.5         10.2      86,047       34.018      20C2.0   2         2.000         0        6.000    4.234    14.89;                            3              33883
2013              13.8          9.7       81.842      32.388      2000     2.0001   2.000          0        6.000     2.572.  14.89      14.892                 3235          38694
2014              12.9          9.0       78.453      30.22    2.000C      200 2     2.--   0               8.000       442    14        1492 114.892   0       30.22      3.450
2015              12.1          8.5      71.597       28.30!    2.000    2.000   -                 0        4.000   13.414    14.8921:     _    ._              28.30       3.231
2016              11.3          7.9      67.096        526,       2,000   __2.00C        0         0        4.0      11634    14,892          03 0      e       26.526         3,02
2017              10.5          7.4      62.714 ......24.7194  .2.020    2.05        _.    __               40    9, 9    .14.8               0         0       2......4.i79   2,830
2018               9.9          6.9       58687      23.20:2           2.2000   -                           4.000     8.310    14.89: I        t        0       23.202         2.649
2019               9.3          6.5       55,015      2150        20         00Z9        0         0        4......AQ0  6    ..5J14.89.       0         0 .......21.75.0 ........A
2020            8.,7    8j       1       51 462       20.346      2..05    2.00          0         0        4.000     5.454    14.89           0        0       20.346         2 323
1  2021            8 6.2        5.7      48,324        19,10      2,000j    2.000,       ol        o        4,000     4,213   14,892          0         0       19,105          181
As is typical of LFG projects on closed landfill cells, the production of biogas will dissipate, necessitating either
expansion to new gas sources (newly filled cells) or the sale of excess capacity. While SIMEPRODESO will expand
to their landfill to new cells, gas collection from these newly filled cells is not within the framework of the proposed
GEF project. Accordingly, the project analysis assumes the unused engines will be sold.
- 105 -



Additional
Annex 16
Description of SIMEPRODESO Landfill
General Description of Landfill Facilities
The SIMEPRODESO landfill is located in north side of Salinas Victoria, Nuevo Leon in the district of
Salinas Victoria The landfill was established on a greenfield site with a total landfill area of 220 hectares.
Since operation began in 1991, the landfill has been accepting mostly non-hazardous domestic and
commercial waste as well as some non-hazardous hospital and industrial waste.
The landfill is fenced off with a security patrol. It has no scavengers and is not accessible. The landfill
facility is well equipped. The infrastructure includes an administration building, a weigh station for
incoming waste, a laboratory, a guard house at the entrance of the facility, a machine and truck
maintenance area, a state of the art materials recovery facility, an incinerator (not in operation) and a
building for sanitation and gasoline supply.
Administration Buildi             Guard House at Entrance
Laboratory                      Maintenance Area
Materials Recovery Facility
106 



Fill History
The 44 ha cell from which the biogas will be collected was filled with 7.7 million tons of waste between
1991 to 1999, at which time it was filled and capped with clay. The landfill continues to accept waste and
is expanding to fill other cells in the 220 ha site.
The SIMEPRODESO landfill showing the filled cell and future site of LFG power plant
Map of SIMEPRODESO Landfill
Closed Cell            -
11I Iri III   II I   I I I I   I I  I 1111 l I  I  111111l l 111 u     ,tI t 1111 1 Il lii li *II  II    liii I II    11111  II 111111  VAliiI  I  F.F.C.C. A 1,/*RE '+O
Fill History for 44 ha Filled Cel to be Used
for the Collection of Biogas
Year             Tons deposited
1991                518,732
1992                732,000
1993                988,818
1994                812,000
1995                824,000
1996                850,000
1997                928,535
1998                912,587
1999                1,134,385
Total               7,698,057
Waste Composition
The composition of the waste at SIMEPRODESO is listed on the table on the following page. Relative to
US landfills, the food waste content is higher and as a result the moisture content is higher. This difference
in the waste food content were accounted for in the estimation of the amount of biogas produced by the cell
(see Annex 15 for details).
- 107 -



Type of Waste       Percent by weight
(degradability)
SD=slowly degradable;
MD=moderately degradable
RD=rapidly degradable
Cardboard              2.4 (MD)
Coated cardboard          3.1 (MD)
Clothing              6.5 (SD)
Rubber                2.2 (SD)
Tin                   2.3
Aluminum                 0.85
China and ceramics           0.74
Wood                 2.1 (MD)
Construction materials         2.9
Newspaper              3.1 (MD)
Toilet paper           3.6 (MD)
Office paper            3.1 (MD)
Plastic film            6.6 (SD)
Rigid plastic           3.4 (SD)
Polystyrene             1.1 (SD)
Food waste             38.4 (RD)
Garden waste            4.1 (RD)
Glass                  4.3
Other                  9.3
Rapidly degradable            42.5
Moderately+rapidly            60.0
degradable
Total degradable             79.8
Moisture content*           46.6%
*Moisture content estimated as described in Annex 15
- 108 -



Additional
Annex 17
- 109-



Additional
Annex 18
-110-



'2                           lift~~~~~~~~10                                              60oo90                                                                           IBRD  2354
~~~~~~~Esso,ods \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEX                                                                                 
N~~OR  A  
NI  A-t   I                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Hervnosillo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d,,N
I rAMAU11~~~~~~~~~~~~~NfpnIc#o
IICAI CAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    tt CJRt
~~~~AIIIIII          P.c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'t  rs~t ip
VI~~~~~~~~~~~                     te Qfcsi
I     Torroo                                                                       -. lntftt*atiOOot ta99ds$rceco~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
IOU-   oo
CHOACAN                3       '                                ,0OA " CA
KILOMETERS 
__________________________                                         *4                              'ThsspsTs                                  uire
Soc               .'                      p""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATML
MILE C--                                                               '                                            '
iNk 'cop Los boon    by t OSlsdd4onk'n 510 aoIott ~~~~~~~~~~                                                  ~       ~HONURA
ft.     $'        '"C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FERAY19



