Report No. PID8127
Project Name                     Mexico-Methane Gas Capture and Use at a (@)
Landfill-Demonstration Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Environment
Project                          MXGE63463
Borrowers                        Government of Mexico
Implementing Agency(s)           SIMEPRODESO, SEDESOL
Environmental Category           B
Date PID Prepared                November 14, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           December, 2000
Projected Board Date             February, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Mindful of the long-term costs of improper solid waste management, the
Government of Mexico (GoM) has initiated (with assistance from the World
Bank) a program designed to address some of the underlying causes of improper
solid waste management. The program supports efforts to: a) strengthen
regulations and institutions at a federal and local level conducive to more
effective practices and incentives; and b) assist in the development of
sustainable solid waste management practices. This program is assisting
specific communities, committed to policy, institutional reform and the
implementation of sustainable practices in its efforts to develop, design and
operate long-term, solid waste management programs. The assistance will also
result in the mapping of a comprehensive recycling plan. To date, the
baseline project has been successful in reaching policy and institutional
agreements with a series of municipalities representing a wide-spectrum of
local conditions. This current add-on project will complement the baseline
project by focusing on incorporation of landfill gas (LFG) capture and use
into solid waste management practices.
2. Objectives
To address these concerns, this add-on project would support the design and
implementation of a system to capture and utilize landfill gas, at landfills
developed under the baseline program. Implementation of these systems would
prevent the escape of methane to the atmosphere. Adding a methane capture
component to the baseline program would lay the basis for future replication
efforts by demonstrating costs, potential, and effective management
arrangements under Mexican conditions while addressing generic institutional
barriers.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The involvement of the Bank/GEF in the proposed project provides an
opportunity to support a critical effort by the GoM to improve solid waste
management, reduce dependence on imported energy, and improve global
environmental quality through the reduction of greenhouse gases. In the



absence of Bank involvement, it is unlikely that the country would have been
able to mobilize adequate resources and technical assistance required to
implement the baseline project. Without GEF involvement, the GoM would not
have been able to develop a methane-capture and use demonstration project.
As previously stated, the project could serve as a paradigm for other small
and medium-sized cities in Mexico, which are all facing serious problems with
the management of solid waste and emissions of methane.
4. Description
A.      Detailed Engineering Design and Construction of a Plant for Methane
Capture and Use.
This component will provide funding for the design and construction of a
landfill gas collection system and a power plant (estimated to be 7 MW) at
a 44 ha closed cell at the SIMEPRODESO landfill (Monterrey, Nuevo Leon).
The facility will include: i) the wells, piping network and blowers that
will collect the methane produced by the landfill and deliver it to the
power plant, ii) a power plant with and a treatment plant to remove
moisture from the LFG before combustion, iii) a flare that burns off
excess methane not used by the power plant and thus allows for maximal
destruction of methane even during plant shutdowns, iv) supporting
infrastructure such as roads, sewerage, water supply, buildings and
lighting, and v) project design, operator training and supervision. The
design, construction and operation of the plant will be implemented
through a private-public partnership (see institutional section of Summary
Analysis). As the project will be a demonstration project, the
development of the facility will be documented by SIMEPRODESO for use in
the Capacity Building and Regional Dissemination Components. This will
include: 1) Design and construction summary report 2) an annual
operational summary report 3) an annual "lessons learned" report that
would cover operational, financial, managerial and institutional issues
important to the project and 3) an annual environmental summary report.
B.      Capacity building.
In order to promote replication of LFG collection and use facilities
elsewhere in Mexico, this component will build the capacity of SEDESOL,
local and state government entities and private contractors to promote and
manage LFG projects. In addition, this component will fund the
preparation of a national replication strategy.
SEDESOL will implement this component and components C and D. To build
SEDESOL's capacity to implement the project and future projects, this
component will fund international training of SEDESOL employees on issues
important to their role as a federal agency and also the construction,
operation and management details important to local and state governments
and private contractors. The project will also allow SEDESOL to build
capacity and promote LFG adoption in state and local governments and
private companies in the solid waste industry. Funding will be provided
for the preparation of dissemination materials, for training workshops,
and for twinning arrangements where an operating facility would provide
managerial and technical assistance to a developing facility. Public
dissemination will also be undertaken through news releases, tours and
demonstrations.
The replication strategy will focus on: a) "retrofitting" existing cells
in sanitary landfills with LFG management systems, landfill gas extraction
-2 -



for new cells within existing landfills, and in new facilities; b)
introducing LFG management issues in the process of converting open dumps
to sanitary landfills, including discussion of methodologies, analysis and
options for scavengers; c) incorporating LFG management in the planning,
design and construction of future landfill sites; and, d) assessing the
prospects of using non-grant financing modalities for future support to
municipalities. The later would include detailing the economics of such
plants on a broader scale and consideration of contingent grants and other
financing mechanisms. In addition, the project will undertake a study on
worldwide economic effectiveness of the plants as part of the replication
strategy, ultimately detailing how future replication could be self-
financing. An analysis of the potential for replication including an
assessment of the estimated need for LFG facilities will be undertaken.
C.      Regulatory reform.
The project will fund the necessary technical background studies to
support the inclusion of landfill gas management within the scope of
existing SWM legislation. The results of this study will be intended for
inclusion in the proposed new legislation for landfill gas management.
SEDESOL will implement this component.
D.      Regional (Latin America) Dissemination.
The project will support efforts aimed at facilitating the dissemination
of design and operational experience gained in Monterrey and other
projects worldwide (such as those supported by the Bank in Indonesia,
Latvia, Uruguay as well as others) for possible use throughout the region.
The following activities will be funded by the project and implemented by
SEDESOL:
i)      Development of information tools (such as a webpage and newsletter);
ii)     Organization of international workshops for owners and operators of
sanitary landfills interested in LFG management and other potentially
interested parties from the private sector, such as independent power
producers in the region (outside of Mexico); and
iii) Twinning arrangements that include internships and site visits for
managers and operators at operating LFG facilities in other countries.
E.      Project Management.
The project will fund the technical and administrative support necessary
to implement the components and to provide monitoring of the project as
a whole. Landfill gas specialists will be employed for the project in
SEDESOL and SIMEPRODESO. The specialist at SIMEPRODESO will act as a
project manager for the first component. The specialist at SEDESOL will
be in charge of the capacity building and Latin American dissemination
components. A portion of the costs of implementing the environmental
management plan will also be funded.    In accordance with the
procurement capacity assessment, this component will pay for a
consultant to organize the booking and train SIMEPRODESO's procurement
team. In accordance with the financial capacity assessment, the
salaries of independent auditors for annual audits of SIMEPRODESO will
also be funded. The costs of production of the required project
monitoring, supervision and auditing reports, the operational summary
report, the environmental summary report and the lessons learned report
will also be funded.
5. Financing
-3-



Total (US$m)
Total Project Cost               13.25
GEF                              6.27
Mexico                           0.4
Private Sector                   6.58
6. Implementation
Recipient and Guarantor: SIMEPRODESO will be the recipient of the grant.
The Government of Mexico will be the Guarantor of the grant, with SEDESOL
acting as the specialized technical agency for the purpose. BANOBRAS will
act as financial agency for this project.
Executing agencies: SEDESOL will retain overall responsibility for the
project and implement the capacity building, legal and regulatory reform and
Latin America dissemination components. To implement these components the
project will provide funds to SEDESOL for the salary for a LFG specialist and
for training of other staff. SIMEPRODESO will be responsible for
coordinating with SEDESOL to provide the necessary information, tours and
other support to implement these components.
The first component, the construction of the LFG demonstration plant, will
involve the formation of a Co-generation Company between SIMEPRODESO, a
private partner ("Strategic Partner"), the Municipality of Monterrey, and
Servicios de Agua Y Drenaje. SIMEPRODESO will be responsible for the overall
administrative implementation of the demonstration project via an agreement
with the Strategic Partner. The project management unit will cover the
following functions: planning, monitoring and evaluation, financial
management, accounting, risk management, procurement and information
technology. The Strategic Partner will be responsible for the overall
technical implementation of the project.
Participation Strategy. Given the demonstration character of the project,
public participation is essential for the dissemination of results and to
facilitate early replication of the experience. The capacity building and
Latin America dissemination components are specifically designed for
participation for the purpose of project replication. These components will
include dissemination and training workshops, twinning arrangements and
public awareness activities such as tours and press releases. The
development of the materials for these components will be done in a
participatory fashion though consultation of the major project stakeholders
and interested public, private and non-profit entities. In addition, USEPA's
Landfill Methane Outreach Program, a voluntary program designed to provide
technical and project facilitation assistance to landfill owners and
government agencies, will assist in the development of the materials for
dissemination and the twinning arrangements.
7. Sustainability
This GEF project is a continuation of a World Bank-financed project. Factors
critical to the sustainability of the project include: i) The proposed
technology (LFG collection from production wells for the purposes of power
generation in internal combustion engines) is well-proven elsewhere; ii) The
current regulation for solid waste management does not cover LFG issues.
However, regulatory reform is in the process of being formulated that would
-4 -



satisfactorily address construction and management issues related to LFG. As
part of the project a framework for more detailed inclusion of LFG issues in
Mexican legislation will facilitate future replication of the project; iii)
The financial analysis carried out in context of the feasibility study shows
that without GEF assistance, the project's financial rate of return is
marginal. However, with GEF involvement, the return is at a level more
attractive. It is anticipated that gains in operational experience and
economies of scale will contribute to further improve the financial rate of
return in subsequent projects; iv) The institutional capacity of SIMEPRODESO
has been tested during the operation of the sanitary landfill (the second
largest in Mexico). A financial capacity assessment of SIMEPRODESO indicated
that they satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements but do
not have in place an adequate project financial management system for PMR-
Based disbursements. An action plan including details of accounting,
auditing arrangements, reporting, flow of funds and management information
system has been formulated with the client to address the financial issues.
A procurement capacity assessment prescribed an action plan to assist
SIMEPRODESO during the project and build their capacity. This plan will be
followed during project implementation. In addition, SIMEPRODESO's
management and operational capacity for the LFG plant will be further
strengthened as part of the project through the involvement of a private
sector partner with experience in LFG management. Given the past management
record and the proposed additional support, the institutional capacity
supports the sustainability of the project. From the perspective of
replication of the demonstration project, the project is also sustainable.
The prefeasibility study found many potential sites for development of
landfill gas projects in Mexico and as evidenced at recent workshops on LFG
in Mexico and SEDESOL's commitment to this issue, there is great interest at
the federal and local level for LFG projects and therefore replication of the
demonstration project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The preparation team has drawn on the experience and lessons learned from
other GEF supported projects in order to improve project design and benefit
from best practice. Peer reviewers have included task managers of on-going
and planned methane capture projects in Latvia and Uruguay. An outside expert
has also provided useful comments.
The following lessons have been applied during project preparation:
Decision-makers at the municipal level should support the project objectives
prior to site selection.
The project has been conceived and is being prepared with full participation
of the municipal authorities and the proposed owner-operator (SIMEPRODESO).
Workshops and training are critical for enabling the replication of project
activities.
A technical training program has been included in project design.
Technical assistance provided to municipalities is essential.
The baseline project has provided the necessary technical assistance and
training in municipal SWM to support an integrated approach which includes
LFG capture and use. The proposed GEF project will provide technical
assistance focused on LFG management.
- 5-



Development of integrated plans is essential for effective management of
municipal solid waste.
The baseline project has provided needed training and technical support to
local and national decision makers in developing integrated municipal SWM
plans. The proposed project will build upon these plans by integrating LFG
management and utilization.
Full cost recovery is necessary to promote sustainability.
The LFG plant will be financed with GEF equity financing (grant) and
financing from a private investor. The financial analysis has determined that
with GEF financing the plant is financially viable and that all costs will be
recovered.
Clear managerial and institutional responsibilities are required.
The general project is under the purview of SEDESOL who has ultimate
responsibility for its implementation, with a particular focus on project
replication and dissemination of technical and educational materials.
Implementation of first component, the construction and operation of the
demonstration project, will be the primary responsibility of SIMEPRODESO.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI) N
10. Environmental Aspects (including any public consultation)
Environmental Assessment Process and Main Conclusions
An environmental assessment for the Monterrey LFG facility has been
finalized. The assessment revealed that, as the plant will reduce emissions
of greenhouse gases as well as volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from the
landfill, the major impacts of the project will be beneficial to the
environment. Some minor negative impacts will also occur as a result of the
project. An environmental management plan was also developed by an
engineering consulting firm with the participation of the executing agency
(SIMEPRODESO) to mitigate these problems. The EMP will be implemented by
SIMEPRODESO and the Strategic Partner with implementation required in the
grant agreements and bidding documents. The effects of the project are
described in more detail below.
Effects of Landfill Gas Plant Construction
Global warming gas emissions: The LFG plant to be constructed in Monterrey
will result in the capture of 214 million cubic meters of methane (a potent
greenhouse gas). In addition, the energy produced by the plant will
substitute for other energy sources that use fossil fuels, thus reducing the
emission of global warming gases from these sources. If successful, the
replication strategy will catalyze the construction of more plants in Mexico.
The regional dissemination component of the project is intended to have a
similar effect in other Latin American countries.
Other pollutant emissions: In addition to the methane, the landfill gas
mixture that will be combusted for power generation contains volatile organic
compounds (VOCs). If VOCs are allowed to be released directly from a
landfill they can be hazardous to humans and contribute to low-level ozone
formation, a precursor to smog. The power plant will burn these VOCs and
thus reduce their emission and LFG combustion will also reduce odors
associated with landfill gas. To maximize these environmental benefits, the
plant will have a flare to combust captured LFG that is not combusted during
- 6 -



production of electricity.
The internal combustion engines used in the power plant will produce small
volumes of NOx (a smog-forming gas) and CO (a toxic gas). The reduction in
emissions of VOCs from the combustion of landfill gas and the reduced
emissions of smog-forming compounds from the fossil fuel energy sources that
the landfill gas energy substitutes for, will more than offset the impacts of
the smog-forming compounds produced by the engines and flare. The engine
emissions will be mitigated through requirements (specified in the bidding
documents) for low emission engines. These emissions will be in compliance
with World Bank guidelines. In addition, the engine emissions will be
monitored for compliance with local environmental laws as described in the
EMP. To prevent increased emissions due to poor engine performance, it will
be required that the engines be operated and maintained in accordance with
the manufacturers specifications.
Explosion risk: The high methane content in landfill gas makes the gas
potentially explosive when mixed with air. As the landfill gas plant will
destroy a large proportion of the methane from the landfill under controlled
conditions, the explosion risk on or near the landfill itself will be
reduced. There will be some increased risk of explosion near the equipment
used for the conveyance, pressurization and delivery of LFG to the engine.
This risk is minimized by locating the compressors outdoors. An alarm system
that detects methane leaks will be installed near the indoor equipment.
Liquid Wastes: The internal combustion engines produce waste oil and coolant
that must be disposed of properly. Both of these wastes will be brought to a
government approved hazardous waste treatment facility already used by
SIMEPRODESO for similar wastes. Water that condenses in the gas collection
system is somewhat similar in content to the landfill leachate and therefore
can contain low concentrations of heavy metals and hydrocarbons. The
condensate will be collected and as is currently done with the leachate,
recirculated into the landfill. Given the dry conditions, the landfill will
be able to absorb this excess water without any danger of migration or
runoff.
Noise: As the proposed site of the plant is not adjacent to neighbors, noise
from the engines is expected to be only an occupational safety problem for
workers at the plant.    To mitigate effects of noise employees will be
required to use proper ear protection and the engine house will be located
away from neighbors and constructed to reduce noise outside the building.
Construction-related effects: During construction there will be waste
produced from the water used at the construction facilities and from the
scrap construction materials. Construction activities will also increase
noise, the suspension of particulates and vehicular emissions at the site.
The bidding documents will specify that proper waste management practices be
used during construction. In addition, construction practices that mitigate
noise and pollution will be required.
Loss of Flora: The construction of the power plant and collection system will
impact no flora as the areas proposed for construction currently are not
vegetated.
Landfill Management Issues
-7-



Leachate control: The landfill gas plant will not increase the likelihood of
groundwater contamination by leachate. The current practice of periodic
pumping and recirculation of the leachate into the landfill has been adequate
and will continue.
Methane migration: The migration of methane from landfills is an important
issue because methane can diffuse into enclosed rooms in nearby houses and
buildings and cause an explosion hazard. The project will reduce this risk
through the collection and combustion of the landfill gas. In addition,
because SIMEPRODESO currently does not monitor for methane migration, the
environmental management plan requires a monitoring system to be put into
place. Similar monitoring systems are effective at landfills in the US with
more extensive neighboring communities than that found at the SIMEPRODESO
landfill.
Occupational Health and Safety Issues
The criteria for selection of the Strategic Partner who will be responsible
for construction, operation and training activities will include an
evaluation of the companies environmental and safety record. Within the
contractual agreements of the Cogeneration Company occupational and safety
practices based on international standards will be specified.
Siting of Plant
The SIMEPRODESO landfill is located in a relatively unpopulated area.
Immediate neighbors include several ranches, a junk yard and a squatter
community. These neighbors will benefit from the reduced emissions and
reduction in explosion risks associated with the project. The closed
landfill cell borders a road and the power plant will be located in an area
of the landfill that borders uninhabited private land. This will mitigate
the potential effects of construction and operation on the local inhabitants.
11. Contact Point:
Walter Vergara
The World Bank
1818 H St, NW
Washington, DC 20433
1-202-458-2705
1-202-676-0199 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Page 1
-8-



