                                           Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICE USE ONLY

                                                                      Report Number: 37925 - ME




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                          (MULT-28268)

                                               ON A

                                             GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.27 MILLION

                                                TO

                BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS

                                               AND

                                UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                             FOR THE

 METHANE GAS CAPTURE AND USE AT A LANDFILL - DEMONSTRATION PROJECT




                                         January 30, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Colombia & Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office




 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
 performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
 World Bank authorization.

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2006)

                         Currency Unit = MXN/US$

                             MXN 1.00 =0.1 US$

                            US$ 1.00 = MXN 10.4

                                 Fiscal Year

                          January 1 ­ December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BANOBRAS   National Bank for Civil Works and Public Services
BENLESA    Bioenergia de Nuevo Leon
CFE        Comisión Federal de Electricidad
CLFC       Compañia de Luz y Fuerza del Centro
CRE        Comisión Reguladora de Energía
DIF        Desarrollo Integral de La Familia
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
ERPA       Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement
ETEISA     Estudios y Técnicas Especializadas en Ingeniería, S.A. de C.V.
FMGb       Financial Management Guidebook
GoM        Government of Mexico
GW         Gigawatt
Ha         Hectare
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
INE        Instituto Nacional de Ecología
IPP        Independent power producers
IRR        Internal rate of return
Kw         Kilowatt
LAC        Latin America and the Caribbean
LFG        Landfill Gas
MOF        Ministry of Finance (Secretaría Hacienda y Credito Público)
MV         Megavolts
MW         Megawatts
MXP        Mexican Pesos
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
NPV        Net present value
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PEMEX      Petroleos Mexicanos
PPP        Public Private Partnership



                                     ii

PY             Project Year
S.A. de C.V.   Sociedad Anónima de Capital Variable
SHCP           Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público de México
SEDESOL        Ministry of Social Development (Secretaría de Desarollo Social)
SEISA          Sistemas de Energía Internacional, S.A. de C.V.
SEMARNAT       Secretaría de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales
SGSC&A         State Government Secretariat Control and Administration
SIMEPRODE      Sistema Metropolitano de Procesamiento de Desechos Sólidos
SME            Sindicato Mexicano de Electricistas
SOE            Statement of expenditures
SUTERM         Sindicato Unico de Trabajadores Electricistas de la República Mexicana
SWM            Solid Waste Management
UMS            United Mexican States
VOC            Volatile organic compound




                     Vice President: Pamela Cox
                  Country Director: Isabel M. Guerrero
                   Sector Manager: Susan G. Goldmark
               Project Team Leader: Walter Vergara




                                        iii

                                                              MEXICO
          Methane Gas Capture and Use at a Landfill - Demonstration Project

                                                            CONTENTS


1. BASIC INFORMATION...................................................................................................................1

2. KEY DATES.......................................................................................................................................1

3. RATINGS SUMMARY .....................................................................................................................1

4. SECTOR AND THEME CODES .....................................................................................................2

5. BANK STAFF.....................................................................................................................................2

6. PROJECT CONTEXT, GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ...............3

7. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES..............................13

8. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES...................................................................................................24

9. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT OUTCOME .................................34

10. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE..........................................35

11. LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................................................................................39

12. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
AGENCIES/PARTNERS.........................................................................................................................40

ANNEX 1. RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS .............................................................................41

ANNEX 2. RESTRUCTURING (IF ANY).............................................................................................45

ANNEX 3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING...............................................................................46

ANNEX 4. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT.............................................................................................47

ANNEX 5. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...................................................................51

ANNEX 6. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION
PROCESSES .............................................................................................................................................55

ANNEX 7. DETAILED RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE...................57

ANNEX 8. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS (IF ANY)................................................................58

ANNEX 9. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS (IF ANY)..........................60

ANNEX 10. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR.......61

ANNEX 11: COMMENTS OF CO-FINANCIERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS ....................65

ANNEX 12. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS..........................................................................66

ANNEX 13. EXPANSION OF MONTERREY PLANT................................................................. 68




                                                                      iv

1.      Basic Information


                                                                             Methane Gas Capture and
Country:                 Mexico                    Project Name:             Use at a Landfill -
                                                                             Demonstration Project
Project ID:              P063463                   L/C/TF Number(s):         MULT-28268
ICR Date:                01/27/2007                ICR Type:                 Core ICR

Lending Instrument:                                Borrower:                 UNITED MEXICAN
                                                                             STATES, BANOBRAS
Original GEF grant
amount                   USD 6.3M                  Disbursed Amount:         USD 6.3M

Environmental Category: B                          GEF Focal Area            C
Borrower/ Implementing Agencies:
BANOBRAS
SIMEPRODE
SEDESOL
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Bioelectrica

2.      Key Dates


      Process               Date                Process           Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:               05/17/2000 Effectiveness:                 01/28/2002          05/31/2002
Appraisal:                    12/11/2000 Restructuring(s):
Approval:                     05/15/2001 Mid-term Review:                                   08/13/2004
                                        Closing:                        06/30/2006          06/30/2006

3.      Ratings Summary


3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                                                  Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                                                                Low
Bank Performance:                                                                          Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                                                      Satisfactory
3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)             Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                   No             Quality at Entry (QEA):         Satisfactory

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                        No             Quality of Supervision (QSA):   Satisfactory

GEO rating before                Highly

Closing/Inactive status          Satisfactory


4.      Sector and Theme Codes


                                                          Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   18                 18
Sub-national government administration                               4                  4
Renewable energy                                                    78                 78
                                                     Original Priority   Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Law reform                                                    Secondary          Secondary
Municipal governance and institution building                 Secondary          Secondary
Other urban development                                         Primary            Primary
Climate change                                                Secondary            Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                   Primary            Primary


5.      Bank Staff


                         Positions                         At ICR         At Approval
Vice President:                                     Pamela Cox         David de Ferranti
Country Director:                                   Isabel M. Guerrero Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                                     Susan G. Goldmark Susan G. Goldmark
Project Team Leader:                                Walter Vergara     Walter Vergara
ICR Team Leader:                                    Walter Vergara     Walter Vergara
                                                    Walter Vergara,
ICR Primary Author:                                 Seraphine Marie
                                                    Haeussling




                                               2

6.       Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

Summary of Outcomes

The Monterrey project is now fully implemented. The power plant has been in operation for more
than three years with very satisfactory performance. The dissemination and training efforts were
very successful. When reviewed in the context of the increasing awareness of the urgency and
magnitude of the climate challenge, the project in Monterrey has to be recognized for its
pioneering design, and results.

In summary, the project has promoted the design, construction and operation of the first ever
methane gas power plant in Mexico, and Latin America, that incorporates local and global
environmental concerns in its scope and operation. The project is currently powering city lights at
night and the Metro system during the day in Monterrey, all of this is being done with landfill gas
that would otherwise have been leaked into the atmosphere, contributing to greenhouse gas
accumulation. The project has provided the much needed momentum in the efforts to further
replicate the concept in the region. In Mexico a new carbon finance operation has been approved
which will replicate the project through its expansion and at other sites.                       The project also
contributed to the development of an innovative Public Private Partnership that addresses
regulatory limitations for investment in the power sector in Mexico.

At present the project is operating at full capacity, has a positive financial performance, as well as
excellent prospects to continue replication of this concept.

6.1      Context at Appraisal

Sector Background (at time of project approval). In 2001 over 82,000 tons/day of solid waste
were generated in Mexico1: of this 49% was disposed under sanitary conditions in landfills, 10.6%
under controlled conditions (not necessarily in sanitary landfills), and 38.6% under uncontrolled
conditions. Only 2.4% of urban solid waste that was disposed on landfills was subject to recycling.
Lack of proper treatment and disposal facilities, institutional capacity (for solid waste management
(SWM)) was weak, and financial support to improve SWM at local and municipal levels was
insufficient. Open dumping was the most common solid waste disposal method in small and
medium sized cities in Mexico. Open dumping contributes to serious health and safety problems to
surrounding communities, including the promotion of vector-borne diseases and leachate
infiltration. Improper disposal causes contamination of aquifers and surface waters and reduces
property values.




1This number corresponds to 319 kg per capita per year and to 31.5 million tons per year. In 2005 the estimated
quantity of generated solid waste amounted to 332 kg per capita per year and 35.4 million tons per year (SEDESOL).



                                                         3

                                    Figure 1: Sanitary landfill in Mexico




Landfill Gas Management. As waste deposited in landfills and dumpsites decomposes, it
produces landfill gas (LFG) which is typically composed of 50% methane (CH4) and 50% carbon
dioxide (CO2) and trace gases. CH4 is a potent greenhouse gas (GHG) which makes up 14% of
global GHG emissions, the second largest contributor to GHG emissions after CO2 (77%)2.
Emissions from the waste sector are 10% (65 Tg)3 of total GHG emissions in Mexico4 and 3.6%
worldwide5. As a GHG, CH4 is 21 times more potent than CO2 on a molecular weight basis. At
the same time LFG constitutes a valuable fuel and can therefore be used for energy generation and
displace energy generated with fossil fuels6. The reduction of CH4 emissions was and continues to
be a critical part of Mexico's strategy to control emissions of GHG.

At the time of project appraisal there were no LFG facilities in Mexico. In fact, only a handful of
LFG utilization plants were in operation in developing nations worldwide. Mexico lacked the
technical and institutional experience needed to identify, design and implement LFG capture and
utilization projects. Regulations targeting LFG management of sanitary landfills had not yet been
issued.

Electricity Supply by Independent Generators. Power supply in Mexico had been a traditional
public sector domain, but as supply had failed to keep up with growing demand (6% per year), the
Federal Electricity Commission (CFE) had opened the door to private sector participation in
financing and operating generating facilities. Regulations promulgated in 2001 allowed private

2World Resources Institute (WRI): Navigating the numbers, 2005.
3An increase of 96% was observed from 1990 to 2002, as a result of the increase in the disposal of solid waste in
sanitary landfills and the promotion given in the last decade to the treatment of industrial and municipal waste waters.
(Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources of Mexico and National Institute for Ecology, Third National
Communication, 2006)
4Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources of Mexico and National Institute for Ecology: Third National
Communication, 2006.
5WRI: Navigating the numbers, 2005.
6LFG has a caloric value of approximately 5 kWh/Nm3. Typical pipeline natural gas has approximately double the
heating value or fuel content of a typical LFG (ESMAP: Handbook for the Preparation of LFG to energy projects in
Latin America and the Caribbean).


                                                           4

generators to supply electricity to the national grid or for self-use (as a co-generation company or
independently). At time of project appraisal there were 80 Independent Power Producers (IPPs)
that together were either generating or scheduled to provide almost 4,000 Megawatts (MW). The
proposed plant was going to provide an additional 7 MW (~0.2%).

Government Strategy. In its broadest form, the Government of Mexico's (GoM) strategy for
halting environmental degradation and remedying past problems was articulated in its National
Development Plan: 1995-2000, and in its National Program to protect the environment. Within
this framework, the United Mexican States (UMS) had initiated reforms to enhance the
participation of state and municipal governments in the provision of basic conditions to improve
SWM through the Official Mexican Norm (NOM-083-ECOL-1996) and was implementing a
strategy to strengthen SWM at multiple levels. The strategy called for: i) strengthening of
regulations and institutions at the federal and local levels conducive to more effective practices
and incentives; ii) extension of services to medium and small size localities and promotion of
private sector participation; iii) harmonization of SWM efforts that aimed at controlling the release
of GHG (emissions of landfill methane); and iv) promotion of recycling.

Baseline Project. Mindful of the long-term costs of improper SWM, the UMS had initiated, with
assistance from the World Bank, a program designed to address some of the underlying causes of
improper SWM ("Baseline Project": Solid Waste Management II/Ln 3752-ME). This loan was
implemented by the ministry of social development (SEDESOL) and was assisting specific
communities that were committed to policy and institutional reform to develop, design and operate
long-term SWM programs.

The specific objectives of the Baseline Project were to: (a) implement a pilot program of
sustainable SWM at selected municipalities; (b) strengthen the capacity of the National Bank for
Civil Works and Public Services (BANOBRAS) and SEDESOL to appraise and supervise solid
waste projects and provide technical assistance to municipalities and states; (c) increase technical,
administrative and regulatory capacity at selected state and local level agencies to improve sector
management and operations; and, (d) improve the legal and regulatory framework and cost
recovery mechanisms of the sector to safeguard the environment. The Baseline Project had been
successful in reaching policy and institutional agreements with various municipalities representing
a wide-spectrum of local conditions. The assistance also resulted in the mapping of a
comprehensive recycling plan.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. As a consequence of the Baseline Project, the UMS wished to
expand its approach to SWM in small- and medium-sized cities by integrating management of
LFG as one of the required elements for sanitary landfills. It also wished to expand technical and
financial assistance to committed municipalities so that they might build their capacity to handle
this new aspect of SWM effectively. In that context the GEF, project was intended to demonstrate
the application of the technology and institutional framework necessary for the operation of
methane "capture and use" plant" in Mexico. Over the longer term, the UMS intended to expand
its program of assistance to additional small- to medium-sized municipalities, and such expansion
programs would integrate LFG management as part of the solid waste strategy, building on the
lessons learned from the demonstration project. The GEF project was designed to assist this




                                                   5

process      by analyzing barriers            and capacity  gaps,   and    by   developing     a   national
dissemination/replication strategy

Higher Level Objectives. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)7 (at the time of project
approval) identified three core themes for World Bank Group Assistance to Mexico: social
sustainability, removing obstacles to sustainable growth, and effective public governance. Within
this broad framework, the Bank Strategy for Infrastructure mentioned support for renewable
energy and municipal development plans as priorities for action. The Solid Waste Sector was
noted as one of the key sectors that needed attention in order to improve service delivery. The
CAS also included, as part of the environmental agenda, promotion of institutional development,
decentralization of environmental management, improved cost recovery of environmental services
and "win-win" investment opportunities where global environmental benefits and national
economic benefits could be generated through an integrated and mainstreamed approach to
development priorities.

Global Operation Strategy/Program Objective Addressed by the Project. The project was
fully consistent and prepared pursuant to guidance from the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Specifically, the GEF resources were utilized to
finance part of the incremental costs associated with reductions in GHG emissions.

The project was consistent with both the GEF guidance (June 1997) for Operational Program
Number 6 (Renewable Energy) and with the GEF Operational Strategy (February 1996) for short-
term projects in the climate change focal area. Under the OP 6.0 the objectives are to (a) remove
the barriers to the use of commercial or near-commercial renewable energy technologies (RETs),
and (b) reduce any additional implementation costs for RETs that result from lack of practical
experience, initial low volume markets, or from the dispersed nature of applications, such that
economically profitable "win-win" transactions and activities increase the deployment of RETs.
The project was in line with the GEF Operational Programs because it was: i) technically,
environmentally and socially sustainable, ii) a national priority and country driven; iii) cost
effective, capturing and substituting for GHG at an anticipated cost of about $4.99 per ton of
carbon8; and iv) a programmatic approach to remove barriers (technical, financial, regulatory,
social, political, and legal) to renewable energy technology that was expected to lay the foundation
for cost-effective replication over the medium and long-term.

Sector Issues to be addressed by the Project. The sector issues related to improving SWM,
including physical investments, capacity-building, social mitigation measures, and regulatory
framework, were part of the Baseline Project. The Baseline Project was a key part of the UMS's
commitment to improving SWM in small- and medium-sized cities. The GEF project continued
this effort by addressing major sector issues in the following manner:




7CAS: Document Number 19289-MX; May 13, 1999 (FY 99 ­ 01).
8The portion of the GEF grant allocated to component A captures methane and reduces carbon emissions by fossil
fuels at a cost of US$ 4.99 per ton of carbon.


                                                      6

                   Sector issues                                       Project response
Absence of sound technical information on how Support in the design and implementation of a
LFG capture and use technologies can be adapted system to capture and utilize LFG at the
to Mexican landfill conditions;                     SIMEPRODE (Metropolitan Systems for Solid
                                                    Waste Treatment) landfill (a public entity) in
                                                    Salinas Victoria;
Need for a model institutional structure for Development of a demonstration facility at
implementing LFG projects;                          SIMEPRODE under an institutional structure with
                                                    private    sector   participation    (PPP)    applicable
                                                    elsewhere in Mexico;
Regulatory limitations for private sector role in Design and implement PPP scheme that allows
power sector investments;                           private sector investment in the sector;
Reduction of methane emissions from open dumps Implementation of a gas utilization project
and landfills;                                      capturing an estimated 214 million m3 of methane
                                                    during plant lifetime;
Lack of municipal, private, state, or federal Organization of workshops, dissemination of
knowledge of and capacity for LFG management at technical documents, and other outreach materials
solid waste disposal sites;                         designed to train these stakeholders;
Incomplete regulatory framework as it pertains to Support      to    SEDESOL        to   include   technical
LFG capture and use;                                specifications and standards for future LFG capture
                                                    and use plants in a draft norm (083);
Absence of a replication strategy for integrating Development of a national replication strategy and
LFG capture in the SWM programs for small- and support of five feasibility studies for further
medium-sized cities;                                projects;
Need to design a participatory approach to deal Preparation of a national replication strategy and
with social impacts of future LFG capture plants in regional dissemination materials;
Mexico and Latin America;
Need to support and consolidate institutional Technical and financial support to SEDESOL to
capacity of SEDESOL.                                carry out workshops on LFG capture and
                                                    utilization, and to publish technical dissemination
                                                    materials.


Value Added of Bank and Global Support in this Project. At project preparation there were no
examples in Mexico for Public Private Partnership (PPP) cooperation in this type of project.
Bank/GEF involvement was key in removing obstacles to the successful demonstration of private
involvement in a still mainly public sector domain. This institutional structure now offers a model
for future LFG projects9.

The involvement of Bank/GEF can also be credited with having initiated the carbon market in
Mexico. The project identified a sector where substantial mitigation of GHG could take place as
waste represents 10 % of Mexico's GHG emissions. As a consequence of the project, the first




9ESMAP Handbook for Preparation of LFG to Energy Projects includes the project as a successful example for LFG
to power projects.


                                                   7

Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement (ERPA) was signed in Mexico for three landfills with a
private company (SEISA10) (see section 8.1 for further details).

In addition, the involvement of the Bank/GEF in the proposed project provided an opportunity to
support a critical effort by the UMS to: (i) improve SWM; (ii) improve global environmental
quality through the reduction of GHG; and (iii) reduce dependence on high-carbon fuel-generated
energy. Bank/GEF shared the lessons learned in SWM, provided technical know how combined
with their experience in other LCR countries, and adapted it to Mexican conditions. GEF's
involvement was critical to catalyzing local willingness to test and demonstrate LFG capture and
use technology and was key to removing associated barriers. In brief, some of the main barriers
addressed were the following:

Financial Barriers. Municipal governments resist investing in this type of project because of lack
of information on financial indicators and economic benefits and because of reluctance to engage
in projects that do not generate immediate results. Municipalities hold elections every three years,
thereby making long-term projects difficult to sustain. The high initial investment cost of this kind
of project and frequent cuts in municipalities' budgets also represent barriers. The financial and
business environment barriers include: high interest rates, short repayment periods, excessive
guarantees and the financial sector's lack of experience.

Institutional Barriers. Three entities are needed to make an LFG project feasible: The landfill
operator; the municipality; and the technology /business sponsors. The landfill operator needs to
accept the construction of the new facilities in its working area, and has the option of optimizing
its operation to assure the long-term production of methane in the new solid disposal areas. By
applying new criteria to its operation, it can increase the capture and production of useful methane.
The municipalities play a double role: they authorize the proposed intervention and are key to the
electricity generation component of the projects. By becoming partners with the other parties,
energy produced could be used for street lighting, which would otherwise be more expensive if
bought from CFE (see section 6.2). Finally, the technology provider and business promoter
convenes the other parties that independently have no incentive to invest in LFG collection.
Getting the three together is a major hurdle.

6.2     Original Global Environmental Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Project Development Objective. The proposed GEF project sought to (i) demonstrate a proven
technology for landfill gas (LFG) capture and use, and (ii) reduce barriers to develop future LFG
projects. The GEF project built upon an existing Government and Bank-supported program to
modernize SWM in small- and medium-sized cities (Loan 3752-ME, Baseline project, closed on
December 31st, 2000 with remaining funds cancelled). The project was intended to result in
immediate reductions in GHG emissions and to serve as a model for the internalization of GHG
control measures in SWM programs.




10Sistemas de Energía Internacional, S.A. de C.V.(SEISA) is with 55% part of Bioelectrica (the private consortium of
the Monterrey plant together with the company Gentor). At the same time SEISA has signed the ERPA for the
development of three more sites with carbon finance including the expansion of Monterrey.


                                                         8

The objectives of the project were to expand the assistance provided to the Recipient under the
Baseline Project for the improvement of SWM by: (a) demonstrating a cost-effective technology
for LFG capture and use in a selected facility; (b) demonstrating an institutional structure for the
implementation of LFG projects, including private sector participation; (c) strengthening the
UMS's regulatory policy and social frameworks for the introduction of LFG capture and use in
Mexico; (d) designing a dissemination strategy to share the lessons learned throughout the Project
implementation with relevant stakeholders in Mexico and Latin America; and (e) designing a
strategy to encourage the replication of the Project in Mexico.

Key Performance Indicators. The LFG collection system and power plant to be installed and
operated at the SIMEPRODE landfill located in Salinas Victoria near the Monterrey metropolitan
area in the State of Nuevo León, the key physical activity of the project, was expected to capture
or substitute for an equivalent of 0.99 million tons of carbon over 20 years which is approximately
what 120,000 cars emit in one year11. The key performance indicator for this component was that
the demonstration LFG facility is shown to be technically, financially and institutionally feasible
within the Mexican context.
The key performance indicators that would monitor the performance of the remaining components
(Capacity Building, Policy and Regulatory Reform and Regional Dissemination) were: i) the
number of potential participants in LFG projects in Mexico and Latin America to which technical,
institutional, and managerial knowledge on LFG were made available; ii) incorporation of LFG
management issues into proposed legislation; iii) increase in number of government programs for
support of LFG facility development; and iv) increase in number of planned LFG projects in
Mexico.

6.3      Revised GEO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The original GEO and performance indicators were not revised.

6.4      Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

As of October 1, 2006, 181 GWh of electricity had been generated, benefiting the population of
seven municipalities in the Monterrey Metropolitan Area. 12 Furthermore, the municipalities
obtained savings in an amount of MXN 0.6 million per year through the reduced electricity price
(see Figure 2). The project also benefits a local population of about 10,000 nearby inhabitants (5
km. radius) through increased monitoring of methane migration (to mitigate any explosion risks).




11Assuming one car travels 10000 miles/year and has fuel efficiency of 20 mi/gallon, so it uses 500 gallons/year
which weight about 2000 kgs or two tons of C8H16; if it combusts fully it will release about 7.2 tons of CO2. Thus 1
million tons is equivalent to the emissions of about 120,000 cars in one year.
12This is equivalent to 730,000 inhabitants benefiting from "clean and cheaper" street lightning.


                                                           9

                                 Figure 2: BENLESA and CFE energy prices
                   Electricity user        BENLESA             CFE         Price difference
                                           (MXN/kwh)                          (%) / saving
                 Municipal street            1.5723           1.7867             12 %
                 lighting
                 Metrorrey                   0.7388           0.8208             10%

                 Gob. Del Estado             0.7435           0.8261             10%

                 Agua y Drenaje              0.7280           0.8088             10%

                 DIF                         0.7260           0.8066             10%

Power generated by the landfill plant is used mainly in Metrorrey (the metro service in the city of
Monterrey) and for Monterrey's public lightning. The methane capture plant operators have
electricity supply agreements with Metrorrey, the water and sewerage state company (Aguas y
Drenaje), the Public Child and Family Assistance Entity (DIF) and the Government of the State of
Nuevo Leon. The contracts specify a 10% discount on the monthly electricity price charged by
CFE as published in the internet. The solid waste of the Monterrey metropolitan area was thus
used to power the massive public transport sector during the day and illuminate the city at night.

At a very local level, the project provided environmental and health benefits to the local
population by reducing odor and controlling emissions of volatile organic compounds that are
found in LFG.

At a global level, the project was a pioneering experience on the capture and oxidation of CH4, a
powerful GHG, for power generation. As of October 1, 2006, the plant has reduced 700,000 tons
of CO2 equivalents of CH4 and generated 180 GWh thereby displacing energy otherwise
generated with fossil fuels. The dual benefits from this approach are of potential benefit to many
urban areas throughout the world. Further, the outstanding technical and financial performance of
the operation provides impetus to capture LFG as an integral element of SWM strategies in
developing nations.13

6.5      Original Components (as approved)

A. Detailed Engineering Design and Construction of a Plant for Methane Capture and Use (Total
Cost: USD 10.8; GEF contribution: USD 4.92 million; Private Sector Strategic Partner
Contribution: USD 5.88 million).

This component's objective was to provide funding for the design and construction of a LFG
collection system and a power plant (estimated to be 7 Megawatts (MW)) at a 44 hectares (ha)
filled cell at the SIMEPRODE landfill. The design, construction and operation of the plant was to
be implemented through a Public Private Partnership with responsibilities shared between the two


13The plant prevents the emissions of 68m3/minute of LFG (approximately 50% is methane and 50% CO2).
68m3/minute of LFG can produce 58 GWh of energy a year and has the capacity of supplying at least 16,000
medium-small houses per year.


                                                   10

major partners, the landfill owner (SIMEPRODE) and a private company experienced in LFG
("Strategic Partner").

As the project was designed to be a technical, financial and institutional model for replication, the
development of the facility would be documented by SIMEPRODE for use in the Capacity
Building and Regional Dissemination Components. These documents were to include: (i) a design
and construction summary report; (ii) a quarterly operational summary report; (iii) an annual
progress report that includes lessons learned during project implementation and recommendations
for future project replication; and (iv) an annual environmental summary report. In addition to this
documentation, a representative from SEDESOL was to be appointed as an observer of the
activities at SIMEPRODE for the purpose of gathering information for the implementation of the
remaining components.

B. Capacity building (Total Cost: USD 0.9 million; GEF contribution: USD 0.6 million;
SEDESOL contribution: USD 0.3 million).

The objective was to build the capacity of SEDESOL, local and state government entities and
private contractors to promote and manage LFG projects. In addition, this component envisioned
funding the preparation of a national replication strategy.

This component and components C and D were to be implemented by SEDESOL. To build
SEDESOL's capacity to assist municipalities in the design and implementation of LFG projects
and directing federal assistance in the sub-sector, this component was to fund international training
of SEDESOL employees. The project was also to allow SEDESOL to build capacity and promote
LFG adoption in state and local governments and private companies in the solid waste industry.
Funding was provided for the preparation of dissemination materials, for training workshops, and
for twinning arrangements where an operating facility would provide managerial and technical
assistance to a developing facility. Public dissemination was to be undertaken through news
releases, tours and demonstrations.

C. Regulatory reform. (Total Cost: USD 0.05; GEF contribution: USD 0.05 million).

The objective of this component was to strengthen the capacity of SEDESOL for the future
development of a modern legal and regulatory framework applicable to LFG management issues,
through the provision of a regulatory reform study. The supported activities included the analysis
of legislative needs of LFG for its inclusion in a research report, and the identification of how
LFG legislative needs can be integrated into proposed legislation, and finally the preparation of a
draft legislation.

D. Regional (Latin America) Dissemination. (Total Cost: USD 0.5; GEF contribution: USD 0.5
million).

The objective of this component was to support efforts aimed at facilitating the dissemination of
design and operational experience gained in Salinas Victoria and other projects worldwide (such
as those supported by the Bank in Indonesia, Latvia, Uruguay as well as others) for possible use
throughout the region.



                                                  11

The following activities were funded by the project and implemented by SEDESOL:

    i)       Preparation of a study on worldwide economic and technical effectiveness of LFG
             plants with a focus on technical, financial and institutional barriers to implementation
             in developing countries and best practice models appropriate to the Latin America
             context. In addition, realization of a consultative workshop including public, private
             and other entities in Latin America that are interested in LFG;
    ii)      Development of information tools (a webpage and newsletter);
    iii)     Organization of international workshops for owners and operators of sanitary landfills
             interested in LFG management and other potentially interested parties from the private
             sector, such as independent power producers in the region; and
    iv)      Twinning arrangements that include internships and site visits for managers at
             operating LFG facilities in other countries.

The impact of this component was going to be monitored by maintaining a list of participants and
monitoring what government programs or LFG projects were initiated by the participants.

E. Project Management.(Total Cost: USD 0.34; GEF contribution: USD 0.2 million; SEDESOL
Contribution: USD 0.04 million; SIMEPRODE contribution: USD 0.1 million).
The objective of this component was the funding of the technical and administrative support
necessary to implement the components and to provide monitoring of the project as a whole. LFG
specialists were to be employed for the project in SEDESOL and SIMEPRODE.

6.6      Revised Components

Under the components B and D three sub-activities related to capacity building were substituted
by five feasibility studies. The replaced activities included 14 trips by managers to twinning
facilities, 7 internships at an operating facility for managers at a developing facility, and 3 of the 6
foreseen capacity building workshops in Monterrey. Instead 5 feasibility studies were carried out
for the cities of León (Guanajuato), Cd. Juárez (Chihuahua), Cuautitlán Izcalli (State of México),
Puerto Vallarta (Jalisco) and a study of composting as an alternative to reduce GHG. The adjusted
scope eliminated travel costs and replaced these by feasibility studies for additional project sites.
The modifications resulted from the need to support Mexican municipalities in their effort to
replicate the Monterrey experience. The successful dissemination efforts by SEDESOL and the
strong replication potential were reflected by these modifications which were approved by the task
manager. The substituted capacity building activities represented a small part of the capacity
building component and were deemed less sustainable and broad in their impact than the
feasibility studies. For example, the landfill in Leon, analyzed in the feasibility study, is expected
to start operation of a LFG plant in 2007.

6.7      Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, and funding allocations)

Late in project implementation the UMS requested through the SCHP the change in currency
(from SDR to US Dollars). This change was done in an expedient manner. However, currency



                                                    12

fluctuations meant a short fall in pesos under component B, which had pending disbursements.
The shortfall was minor and was absorbed by SEDESOL.

7.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1       Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of earlier
operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations identified, and adequacy of
participatory processes, as applicable)

Overall, quality at entry was satisfactory. Many aspects were highly satisfactory and proved
crucial to the success of this pilot project in Mexico and in Latin America.

The most important success factors include:

A thorough project preparation process. The extensive project preparation effort gave the
project a solid technical and institutional base. The pre-feasibility and site selection process
involved the analysis of several barriers and an assessment of the potential for LFG production at
alternative candidate sites. Initially, 33 sites were considered that met the basic requirements (at
least 500,000 inhabitants, minimum precipitation of 200 mm, and annual temperature between 15-
30ºC). For the determination of the optimal site an analysis was conducted at each site on: (i)
technical issues at a regional and municipal level; (ii) economic conditions; and (iii) financial,
social, political and legal considerations. The analysis resulted in a short list of seven
municipalities (10 landfill sites) which were provided with a questionnaire requesting technical,
institutional and social information about the specific project site. The data of the questionnaire
and three different gas generation models helped to estimate the LFG generation in the seven
municipalities. On the basis of a barrier analysis and financial assessment, the sale of the
generated electricity to the municipality was considered as the best alternative. The analysis of
social barriers took into consideration the scavengers14, the distance to settlements, the position of
labor unions, and the opinion of local authorities. Victoria Salinas Landfill operated by
SIMEPRODE was selected as the best site for the demonstration project based on economic,
social, technical and financial criteria15. It was the most attractive project site after weighing the
investment costs, sources of financing, likelihood of private sector involvement and cooperation of
state and municipal authorities. These aspects were confirmed during project implementation.

The implementation arrangements consisting of a Public Private Partnership were fully
adequate to address local regulations for power generation. This dual character partnership
(figures 3 and 4) helped to surmount the solution to complex institutional and regulatory barriers,


14The social assessment conducted in 2000 confirmed that there were no scavengers at the Salinas Victoria Site. The
landfill which started operation in 1991, was developed as a secure sanitary landfill on a Greenfield site and thus
scavengers were never present at the site.
15The SIMEPRODE's landfill is located in the north side of Salinas Victoria, Nuevo Leon in the district of Salinas
Victoria. The landfill was established on a Greenfield site with a total landfill area of 212 hectares. Since operation
began in September 5, 1990, the landfill has been taking mostly non-hazardous domestic and commercial waste as
well as some non-hazardous hospital and industrial waste. This landfill receives 750 trucks daily corresponding to
approximately 4,500 tons of tons per day of municipal solid waste. The 44 ha cell from which the LFG will be
collected was filled with 7.7 million tons of waste between 1991 and 1000. The landfill continues to accept waste and
is expanding to fill other cells in the 212 ha site.


                                                         13

including the difficulties for private participation in power generation. The institutional structure
of the plant consisted in the development of a Co-generation company.16 The responsibilities
between the public landfill operator SIMEPRODE                                17    and the private strategic partner
"Bioelectrica" were clearly defined (figure 4): Bioelectrica designed and constructed the plant, and
is responsible for its operation and maintenance. SIMEPRODE is responsible for the overall
administrative implementation of the demonstration project via an agreement with Bioelectrica.
Metrorrey, the water and sewerage state company (Aguas y Drenaje), the Public Child and Family
Assistance Entity (DIF) and the Government of the State of Nuevo Leon act as energy consumers
and invest a nominal amount each. The alliance between SIMEPRODE and municipalities allowed
the generation of power for self-use.

                                   Figure 3: Cogeneration Company Framework


                                         COGENERATION COMPANY                          COMPANY




                  SIMEPRODE                                                         BIOELECTRICA DE
          (DECENTRALIZED PUBLIC ENTITY)                                                  MONTERREY
         - LANDFILL OWNER                                                            (PRIVATE CONSORTIUM)
         - LANDFILL OPERATOR                                                                 - SEISA 55%
                                                                                           - GENTOR 45%
                                                                                     DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION,
                                                                                  COMMISSIONING, LONG TERM
                                                                                      OPERATIONS & SERVICE
                                                                                         CONTRACT (O&M)



                                                     SPECIFIC PURPOSE
                                                        COMPANY



                                                                      ELECTRICITY USERS-
                                                                              PARTNERS
                                                                            7 MUNICIPALITIES
                                                               Metrorrey (Subway), Nuevo Leon State Government,
                                                                Water and Sewerage State Company and Child and
                                                                        Family Assistance Public Entity




16The Electricity Law allows public or private investors to form a Cogeneration Company that provides electric
services to its members or partners. Since the passing of this Electricity Lay many Cogeneration Companies have been
formed in Mexico. While the law does not allow electricity to be "sold", the Co-generation Company framework
allows electricity to be supplied by partners in the company to the other partners.
17SIMEPRODE is a decentralized public organism of the State of Nuevo Leon, a state company with own property
and legal entity. SIMEPRODE depends on a Board of Directors that is headed by the governor as president of the
board. At the same time the governor designates the General Director which is in turn approved by the Board.


                                                               14

                                     Figure 4: Capital Investment

                                                                           CAPITAL
                                 US $10.8 MILLION             INVESTMENT



          · GEF-WORLD BANK FUNDS                                 · REMAINDER OF THE INVESTMENT

                     47%                                                         53%

               US $5.1 MILLION                                             US $5.7 MILLION




                                        SPECIFIC PURPOSE
                                           COMPANY




                                                        POWER USERS-PARTNERS


                                                     · PREFERRED STOCK (1 STOCK USER-PARTNER)




The government demonstrated a strong commitment to the project. The project received
strong support from the local and federal governments as demonstrated by the inclusion of the
project among the administration's strategic priorities. At the beginning of the project Mexico's
Secretary of Energy directly confirmed to SIMEPRODE the priority afforded to this project based
on the business model for independent generation at a time of electricity shortages. In the context
of Mexico's non binding commitments to the Kyoto protocol, the National Institute for Ecology
(INE) clarified at project entry that the project was part of the program of mitigation actions
announced by the government to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) under the Second National Communication. The project is seen by the Mexican
government as a first in a series of investments to mitigate methane emissions in landfills, an
important component of GHG emissions in the country.




                                                      15

                                      Figure 5: Implementation structure
                                     OTHER RESOURCES FROM THE PARTICIPANTS
                                     OTHER RESOURCES FR                   THE PARTICI ANTS




          · BIOGAS SELLING, LAND                                        · TECHNOLOGY DESIGN,

           LEASING, AND                                                   CONSTRUCTION,
           ENERGY CUSTOMER                                                ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT,
                                                                          PLANT OPERATIONS &
                                                                          MAINTENANCE




                                                SPECIFIC PURPOSE
                                                   COMPANY
             COMISION FEDERAL
               DE ELECTRICIDAD
                                                                POWER USERS-PARTNERS
            · INTERCONECTION, BACKUP
             AND WHEELING SERVICE                              · MUNICIPAL STREET LIGHTING,
                                                                 SUBWAY, AND STATE
                                                                GOVERMENT AGENCIES USER
                                                                CONTRACTS



A few aspects at project entry led to implementation delays:

Long negotiation process with the energy regulatory commission (CRE) / Federal Electricity
Commission (CFE), labor unions and the municipalities. Due to lack of precedents the
negotiation process between the operators of the plant and the Federal Electricity Commission
with regard to the procedures to supply electricity into the network took longer than originally
foreseen and caused a 6 months delay in the provision of energy to the municipalities. This
resulted in an additional cost to the strategic partner.

The selection of the consortium took longer than anticipated. The results of the bidding
process were challenged by the second lowest bidder but the challenge was found to be without
merit. As a consequence the project did not become effective until one year after Board approval.
The performance of the implementing agencies (SIMPRODESO, SEDESOL) helped to make up
for the initial delay as demonstrated by the plant's performance indicators since start up (see figure
12).

Initial overestimation of gas. The initial gas estimation developed under the feasibility study was
based on the USEPA model18 and was not validated by real field measurements. As a consequence,


18 An USEPA LFG production model was used to estimate the amount of LFG to be produced over the project
lifetime. The model has been extensively and successfully used in the U.S. as the basis for designing and financing
LFG projects. The dry conditions and differences in moisture content of the waste in Salinas Victoria were accounted
for in parameter estimation. The model found enough methane would be produced from the filled 44 ha cell to


                                                           16

once the flares and the gas collector were installed, the initial 160 wells did not result in sufficient
gas to generate 7 MW. In order to guarantee an adequate amount of gas and to avoid shutting
down one of the generators, 88 additional wells were installed. This made sure that the plant
operated at maximum capacity and complied with the expected financial returns. The additional
cost of approximately US$0.27 million was absorbed by lower cost for the construction of the
plant. In addition, the quality of the gas was higher than anticipated with a methane content of up
to 54%. Delays were avoided because these decisions were taken on a timely basis.

Integration of lessons learned at project entry:

The design of the project built positively on the experience and lessons learned from other GEF
supported projects in order to improve project design and benefit from best practices. The project
design was especially effective and appropriate in that it took into account the following lessons:

 Lessons learned from other GEF                                      Responses in project
               projects
Decision-makers at the municipal The project was conceived and prepared with full participation of
level should support the project the municipal authorities and the proposed owner-operator
objectives prior to site selection.       (SIMEPRODE).
Workshops and training are critical As part of the capacity building and dissemination component
for enabling the replication of training of SEDESOL and technical staff from municipalities was
project activities.                       carried out. SEDESOL has successfully disseminated the Monterrey
                                          experience, leading to several feasibility studies for replication
                                          projects.
Technical assistance provided to The baseline project provided the necessary technical assistance and
municipalities is essential.              training in municipal SWM to support an integrated approach
                                          which includes LFG capture and use. The GEF project continued
                                          the technical assistance initiated under the Baseline project and
                                          trained 468 technical staff involved in municipal SWM in LFG
                                          projects.
Development of integrated plans is The baseline project has provided needed training and technical
essential for effective management support to local and national decision makers in developing
of municipal solid waste.                 integrated municipal SWM plans. The project built upon these plans
                                          by integrating LFG management and utilization and by
                                          demonstrating a cost effective and environmentally friendly option
                                          to modernize SWM in small- and medium-sized cities.
Full cost recovery is necessary to The LFG plant was financed with GEF equity financing (grant) and


support a 7 MW power plant The model indicated 313 million m3 of methane will be produced over the 20 year
project lifetime. Of the total methane produced in the landfill, it was estimated 214 million m3 of methane (70% of
LFG production) would be captured by the collection system. From this quantity of methane, it was estimated the
project could generate 700 GWh of electrical energy for a total installed capacity of 7 MW. The effect of model
uncertainty on project viability was assessed in the financial sensitivity analysis where the estimated LFG production
was varied +/- 20 %. The model also showed that, as expected, the gas produced by the 44 ha filled cell would decline
over the lifetime of the project as is the case with all LFG projects on filled landfills or filled portions of landfills.
Parameter Estimation: Among the most important parameters in this model are the methane gas generation constant
(k) and the methane gas generation potential (Lo). Lo were estimated using typical values from operating US LFG
projects and adjusting for differences in the composition of the SIMEPRODE waste. k was estimated by measuring
the methane gas production on site and using the USEPA E-PLUS model equation to solve for k.


                                                          17

promote sustainability.            financing from a private investor. The GEF grant was key to
                                   remove barriers that replication projects will no longer face. With
                                   the GEF grant the plant was financially viable and all costs were
                                   recovered. Today the plant continues to operate in a financially
                                   sustainable manner. Current financial estimates demonstrate an IRR
                                   of 17% and a NPV of US$7 million for an operation period of 20
                                   years. Incomes from electricity sale to the municipalities have been
                                   provided continuously and on time. Even though the project faced
                                   higher initial cost due to technical and regulatory barriers, it was
                                   able to recover its cost throughout implementation.
Clear managerial and institutional The responsibilities were clearly defined right from the beginning:
responsibilities are required.     Implementation of the first component, the construction and
                                   operation of the demonstration project, was the primary
                                   responsibility of SIMEPRODE. The other components of the
                                   project were under the purview of SEDESOL. Because of the
                                   interdependency of the components both implementing agencies
                                   required continuous coordination during project implementation,
                                   which was reached on a satisfactory level



7.2     Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at
Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable)

Excellent performance of the power plant in Monterrey. As of October 2006, the plant had
burned approximately 700,000 tons of CO2 equivalents of methane, which represents 70% of the
target value set for 20 years of operation. This is due to the excellent performance of the plant, the
mean power rating achieved and the better than anticipated quality of gas. The business model and
the technology employed have proven more than adequate, meeting all expectations in terms of
the company as well as the plant. The plant has generated 180 GWh, supplied to illuminate the
city's public lighting at night and power the metro system Metrorrey during the day. The better
than expected performance and the relatively higher electricity prices have represented a windfall
for SIMEPRODE. The price for electricity charged by the CFE is among the highest in the region
which contributes to improve financial indicators of the LFG in Mexican power plants. The
operation costs however have increased due to more frequent stops for maintenance than
anticipated caused by the presence of siloxanes (silicate oxides and complex silica compound, see
in same section paragraph: Adaptation of European technology to Mexican conditions).




                                                  18

Figure 6. Panoramic view during construction of                Figure 7. Panoramic with data tower for
methane capture and use plant in Monterrey                     national dispatch center and civil works
under construction (left side)




Institutional arrangements have proven effective and constitute one of the most important
lessons for the replication of the project in Mexico. The model institutional arrangements were
a key reason for success. The special purpose company BENLESA has effectively combined the
experience with landfill management and the actual control of the landfill of SIMEPRODE with
the provision of technology, know how and financing of Bioelectrica from Monterrey. Bioelectrica
financed 53% of the initial capital cost of the plant and was in charge of the civil works, the start
up of the plant, and its operation and maintenance. The PPP was ideally suited for the purposes of
the project and provides a useful lesson and experience for renewable energy in the country. The
involvement of the private sector gave the management the needed continuity insofar as it
operated independently from the municipal administration agenda and political changes. The
cooperation between the landfill owner and the strategic partner was transparent and
complementary. The institutional arrangement is being used for the follow up project, with carbon
financing. Under the carbon finance project three LFG facilities will be developed with an
expected emission reduction of 2.2 million metric tons of CO2e until 2015 (see section 8.1). The
Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement (ERPA) (first in Mexico) for that project was signed on
March 18, 2005.

Payments by municipalities (a concern during project preparation) have been 100% on time.
The timely payments by the municipalities provided the plant operator with the needed security to
cover the operation cost of the plant. This proves that the legal arrangements, including the
participation of the municipalities in BENLESA and the incentive created by providing electricity
at a 10% lower price in contrast to CFE tariffs have been effective. Benefits to the municipalities
include the reduced costs of power supply as well as revenues accrued from their participation
through shares in the special purpose company and the planned reforestation program in the area
of influence of the plant that will ultimately lead to a zero emissions LFG to power project.

Successful dissemination and training program. This program was very successful and is a one
of the key reasons behind the high level of awareness and interest in LFG use in Mexico and in the
region today, ultimately leading to numerous initiatives on the subject. SEDESOL has effectively



                                                  19

implemented the dissemination and training activities with substantial success. Two international
workshops and over ten national events and training seminars were held (copies of materials
produced are in the project files). Capacity building in the field of LFG management has been
substantial. Altogether 468 technical staff employees involved in municipal SWM were trained on
LFG projects. Video and written materials have been produced and distributed inside Mexico and
abroad. As a consequence several municipalities in Mexico have developed feasibility studies and
some are now in the process of starting operation of their LFG plant based on the dissemination
efforts by SEDESOL and on the Monterrey experience.19 The project achieved a high buy in by
the public sector as well as by the private sector and the academic community. The ESMAP
initiative was launched during a workshop in Monterrey in 2004. The resulting "Handbook for the
Preparation of Landfill Gas to Energy Project in Latin America and the Caribbean" includes the
Monterrey project as a successful example which is being followed throughout the region. Besides
providing a model for LFG to power, the project can also be credited with having led to improved
final disposal practices in the region, with reducing environmental risk in landfills such as
uncontrolled fires and with reducing GHG from landfills.

The implementation of the project dealt with various technical issues that included:

Adaptation of European technology to Mexican conditions. Even though the best available
technology was used for the project, the environmental conditions of Mexico made adjustments to
the technology necessary. This caused additional variable operation and maintenance cost to
Bioelectrica as a result of the learning and adaptation procedures. These costs affected the
profitability of the project for Bioelectrica. The adaptation of technology continues to be a
dynamic process and is now being considered in the replication projects economic feasibility
studies. The two main technology adaptation aspects, which may be of use for future activities,
include:

a) High daytime temperatures, forced the addition of heat removal equipment to avoid loss of
performance.

b) The widespread content of siloxanes (silicate oxides and complex silica compounds), resulting
from the disposal of cosmetic and paints, contributed to the accumulation of hard deposits in the
compressor heads, which required a continuous cleaning process to maintain output pressure.

Interruption in interface between plant and regional grid. The link to the grid from the plant
site proved to be unreliable and lead to several plant stoppages. In addition a "backup" cost
charged by CFE to Bioelectrica during plant stoppages increased the already sizable cost to the
unit. As a consequence the modernization of the link to the grid was considered by BENLESA and
CFE through the set up of a substation at the plant site and the installation of a 115 kv dedicated


19(i) León, Guanajuato. With private sector initiative, the first phase for the burning of LFG is about to begin. (ii)
Cuautitlan Izcalli, Estado de México. The new municipal authorities are resuming the project. (iii) Puerto Vallarta,
Jalisco. The bidding process has begun for the use of landfill LFG, with the participation of private sector initiative.
(iv) Cd. Juárez, Chihuahua. The bidding process has begun for the use of landfill LFG, with the participation of
private sector initiative. (v) With regard to compost in Tlalnepantla, Querétaro and Nuevo Láredo. The new municipal
authorities are resuming the project.



                                                           20

line to the grid. The installation of the substation resulted however at this stage more costly to
Bioelectrica than the cost caused by the stoppages. The expansion of Monterrey considers the
installation of the substation. The substation would improve the plant conditions substantially and
reduce uncertainties for the investor.

Figure 8: Connection to the CFE grid                        Figure 9: Extraction of LFG




Uncertainty and slow progress in Mexican legislation with regard to LFG. At project entry
and in the first years of project implementation, the treatment of LFG was barely regulated by
Mexican legislation thus creating uncertainties in the set up and operation of the plant as well as
delays in the procedures related to agreements with the federal electricity regulator. At the same
time, the progress to modify the Law on the Use of Renewable Energies to include LFG as a
formal "renewable energy" has been slow. The key reason for the slow progress of the LFG
legislation is the gridlock experienced in the Mexican Congress during the last few years. The
consideration of LFG as renewable energy source would enable the virtual storage of power
generated from the plant for sale at the most advantageous rate. While the impact on the financial
performance of the Monterrey plant would be significant, it is also a major incentive for the
replication of the experience, elsewhere in Mexico.

Scarce municipal participation in long term projects. Due to the municipal administration
period (three years) and the high turn over of staff with each new administration, continuous
commitment by municipalities is difficult to achieve. This is particularly relevant for the
replication of the Monterrey experience in other municipalities. The learning process by municipal
civil employees is compromised by short administration periods which make greater participation
of federal agencies like SEDESOL necessary to assure continuity in technical capacity. The Public
Private Partnership (PPP) structure in Monterrey, however, provides a good model that
demonstrated strong cooperation with municipalities. Also the project resulted in substantial and
continuous capacity building of municipal employees with regard to LFG projects. The project has
achieved major buy in by municipalities due to the benefits it generates such as reduced electricity
price, a reforestation program and the participation of municipalities in the plant in the form of
shares.




                                                 21

7.3       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The system for monitoring and evaluating project performance was implemented as described in
the PAD and resulted in keeping implementation on track and in identifying and resolving critical
issues affecting the achievement of desired outputs and outcomes. As per the design of the system,
the indicators identified in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1 of the PAD) were reported on
by the Project Implementation Agencies, were discussed by regular supervision missions, and
were the focus of the assessments conducted as part of the Mid-Term Review and the final
evaluations done at the end of the project.

Realistic and tangible (and where possible quantitative) indicators were defined at appraisal for the
project for all its objectives. All the indicators turned out to be both appropriate and useful to the
process for assessing the progress towards achieving the project's objectives.

The monitoring and evaluation component included reporting requirements by the implementing
agencies on a frequent basis to the project team. This entailed the development of a Design and
Construction Summary report, quarterly operational summary reports, workshop participant
list, distribution list for dissemination materials, and dissemination and training reports. The
reports were delivered on time and in a satisfactory manner to the Bank through the financial
intermediary, Banobras. For each sub-activity specific reports were defined and delivered by the
implementing agencies.

The multimedia materials prepared by SEDESOL for dissemination purposes provide a good
overview of the deliverables achieved in their respective components.


7.4       Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as
applicable)

Safeguards. The project is Environmental Category B. An environmental assessment was
conducted in September 2000 and approved by the Bank in December 2000. As a result of the
assessment an "Environmental Management Plan (EMP)" was developed. The EMP was
incorporated as a disbursement condition into the signed contracts of the Cogeneration Company.
Throughout project implementation the environmental standards have been exceeded. Examples
include: engine emissions were much lower than established by Mexican norms, waste oil volume
was below Mexican standards, no methane leakages occurred, and no complaints by neighbors
were received during the whole implementation period. Finally the global environmental benefits
through the reduction of GHG were much higher than anticipated.20 The plant is currently in the
process of receiving the highest Mexican environmental certification for the industry
sector, awarded by the Ministry of Environment. Throughout the project SIMEPRODE issued
environmental management reports evaluating the environmental performance of the plant in
accordance with the reporting requirements defined in the Grant Agreement. The reports were

20The plant was expected to capture or substitute for an equivalent of 0.99 million tons of carbon over 20 years and
has already achieved a reduction of 0.7 million tons of CO2e in its third year of operation.


                                                         22

found to be adequate. With regard to social issues, a social analysis was contracted during project
preparation and reviewed by the Bank and deemed satisfactory. No scavengers were at the project
site in Salinas Victoria and the municipalities and entities involved with solid waste collection and
disposal openly supported the project and collaborated during preparation and implementation. No
social issues occurred during project implementation.

Financial Management. During project implementation the implementing agencies maintained
acceptable accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. The financial intermediary,
BANOBRAS, supervised project implementation and compliance with all legal covenants related
to financial management. All audit reports were submitted by the implementing agencies, and
reviewed by the Bank. Identified issues were discussed and addressed in a proper and timely
manner. The latter includes suitable follow-up, e.g. remedial actions undertaken.

Procurement. The Joint Venture Agreement21 between SIMEPRODE and the strategic partner
Bioelectrica for a value of US$11.50 million         22 was subject to prior review. The strategic partner
was procured through an international competitive bidding process. The goods, works and services
required were procured in according with the applicable procedures of the strategic partner.
SIMEPRODE organized the bid. The bidding process included prequalification followed by
bidding. The bidders had been pre-qualified based on their experience in design, construction and
operation of LFG facilities, their personnel and financing capabilities.

One Procurement Post review was conducted in May 2005 by the Bank procurement specialist.
Two contracts, for a value of approximately US $59,983 equivalent were reviewed. The review of
the sampling centered on the procedures utilized and their compliance with the Bank's
procurement Guidelines. In general, the review found that:
- Documentation related has been well kept and organized
- Based on the documentation reviewed, the selection was found to have been conducted in
compliance with Bank Guidelines

Most of the contracts were done under prior review process. The Methane plant started operation
in September 2005, thus no additional goods and services were required after this date. SEDESOL
contracts were relatively small and under the threshold for expost review.

7.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-
completion operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation & Maintenance
arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation,
if applicable)

The plant continues to operate satisfactorily and current performance indicators of the plant
exceed expectations (see figures 10 and 12). The project assumed an annual CO2e reduction of
approximately 50,000 t CO2e, instead an annual reduction of 180,000 tCO2e was achieved every


21The Joint Venture Agreement refers to the expenditure for goods, works and consultants services procured by the
Strategic Partner contracted to design, build and operate the LFG power plant and provide the training activities
referred to tin Component A of the project.
22Estimate at approval stage; the actual value was US$ 10.8 million. The GEF grant covered US$ 4.93 million of the
total cost of the LFG facility.


                                                        23

year since operation start. The goal set for 20 years of operation regarding the expected reduction
of GHG (0.99 million t CO2e) has already been achieved by 70% within 3 years of plant operation.
A major factor was the high quality of the LFG that had a higher methane content than previously
anticipated.23 The planned expansion of the plant demonstrates the technical and financial capacity
of the operators to expand the production of the plant. However, the expansion of the plant
suffered delays in the previous administration. The new administration of SIMEPRODE and
SEISA have finalized contractual arrangements and expect the expanded plant to be set up by the
end of 2007 (see Annex 11 for further details on expansion of plant). The set up of the
substation considered for plant expansion will smooth out operation and reduce costs.

The equipment of the plant has a lifetime of approximately 20 years and issues due to the
adaptation of the technology to local conditions have mostly been overcome as described above in
paragraph 7.2. Well data provides assurances of continuous supply for the remainder of the LFG.
The figure below shows the increasing trend in the energy production as well as in the availability
of the plant (the plant has been on average on line 91%).

                              Figure 10: Energy Production and Plant Availability24

                                        Resultados de la Operación

              7000                                                                                      100.0

                                                                                                        90.0
              6000
                                                                                                        80.0

              5000                                                                                      70.0


                                                                                                        60.0
              4000
           h
                                                                                                        50.0  %
            Mw
              3000
                                                                                                        40.0


              2000                                                                                      30.0

                                                                                                        20.0
              1000
                                                                                                        10.0

                 0                                                                                      0.0




                           Energía producida     Disponibilidad de la planta    Tendencia    Tendencia


The project continues to have a strong commitment by the local and federal government. The
technical capacity of SEDESOL has been strengthened and regulations on the treatment of LFG
have been formalized, providing greater security to the project over the long term.

8.      Assessment of Outcomes

8.1      Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project's objectives continue to be consistent with the country's current development priorities
and Bank's country and sectoral assistance strategies.



23The initially estimated methane gas content was 45-50%, the actual methane content goes up to 54%.
24The upper line shows the plant availability in percentage, the lower line shows the electricity produced by the plant
in MWh. The x axis represents the time over approximately three years since plant operation start


                                                               24

The latest Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)25 identifies four core themes for Mexico: reduce
poverty and inequality, increase competitiveness, strengthen institutions, and promote
environmental sustainability. Within this broad framework, the Bank Strategy for promoting
environmental sustainability, mentions support to address air pollution, SWM, promote clean
energy, and GHG emissions. Under the second CPS pillar: Increasing Competitiveness (Country
Development Objective: promoting balanced regional development) the project contributes to
efforts to expand coverage, improve quality, and reduce cost of basic services and infrastructure.
The CPS Medium Term Indicators Country Targets seek to increase renewable energy capacity to
1,700 MW, to have at least 10 Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects under
implementation, and to increase levels of installed capacity for handling solid waste to 20%.

The project's achievements are completely in line with the strategy's objectives and indicators. The
project resulted in the demonstration of an option to simultaneously generate clean and cost
effective energy and to address climate change. At the same time the successful implementation of
the project served as a model for replication and has led to the first carbon finance operation in
Mexico. The Mexico Waste Management Carbon Offset project (P088546) seeks to reduce GHG
emissions caused by methane released during land-filling of solid waste in Mexico. The project
will support the development of three LFG facilities. The project is expected to displace an
estimated 2.2 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent up to 2012 and 3 million tons up to
2015. The project will also contribute to improve solid waste management practices through a
remediation program to strengthen the integrity of closed landfills, and will support a "proof of
concept", off grid renewable energy supply at a poor community in Nuevo Leon.

The project continues to be consistent with both the GEF Operational Strategy (February 1996) for
short-term projects in the climate change focal area and with the GEF guidance (June 1997) for the
GEF Operational Program 6: Promoting the adoption of renewable energy by removing barriers
and reducing implementation costs (OP 6). Being a pilot effort the project faced initially several
barriers. It achieved to surmount technical, financial, regulatory and institutional barriers (see
section 8.2) and demonstrates successfully an option for cost effective clean energy.

Mexico has played an important role in the Climate Change Convention and the subsidiary
meetings. It is the first country in Latin America to have submitted the Third National
Communication (November 11, 2006). At the same time Mexico City is the first city worldwide to
have developed a local climate change strategy which includes the waste sector among the priority
sectors for mitigation of GHG. Mexico is also one of the two largest emitters of GHG in the region
(1.5% of global GHG emissions26) and a country that has shown substantial vulnerabilities to the
impacts from Climate Change.

8.2      Achievement of Global Environment Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)




25Country partnership strategy of the World Bank Group with the United Mexican States, March 18,2004 ;Report
No. 28141-ME), covering the period FY 05 ­ 08.
26WRI, Navigating the Numbers, 2005.


                                                     25

The overall project objective was to demonstrate a proven technology for landfill gas (LFG)
capture and use and to reduce barriers to development of future LFG projects. In addition the
project was expected to result in immediate reductions in emissions of GHG and to serve as a
model for the internalization of GHG control measures in SWM programs. These objectives have
been achieved in a highly satisfactory way. This rating is based on the outcomes of the project, the
ratings of the sub-objectives, the indicators of project impact, and the results of the stakeholder
workshop.

Results of Key indicators
                    Key indicator                                                  Result
Landfill gas capture and use facility proven to be Plant operates beyond performance indicators:
technically, institutionally and financially feasible Approximately 180 GWh have been produced to
within the Mexican context.                               date, around 70 million cubic meters of methane
                                                          collected and destroyed (October 2006, see Figure
                                                          12  27 ). Plant is in process of expansion with
                                                          operation of expanded plant scheduled for the end
                                                          of 2007 Management of plant continues to operate
                                                          satisfactorily after project closing date. Current
                                                          financial indicators are adequate.
Number of potential participants in LFG projects in 468 municipal staff has been trained on LFG:
Mexico to whom technical, institutional and Consultation Workshops in Mexico City: 60
managerial knowledge on LFG were made participants
available.                                                LFG workshop in Monterrey: 60
                                                          LFG Congress in Mexico City: 63
                                                          LFG Workshop in Puerto Vallarta: 72
                                                          LFG workshop in Leon: 36
                                                          Latin American LFG workshop in Bogota,
                                                          Colombia: 125
                                                          Latin American LFG workshop in Puerto Vallarta:
                                                          64
Study    on   landfill    gas   management        issues Study completed satisfactorily: The study resulted
completed.                                                in a first draft for the regulation of LFG. Based on
                                                          the results of this study technical SEDESOL staff
                                                          participated in the formulation of the Official
                                                          Mexican      Norm     NOM-083-SEMARNAT-2003.
                                                          Production and dissemination of a manual for
                                                          project promoters (Mexican model) for the
                                                          calculation of LFG potential at Mexican sites,
                                                          based on local information.
Increased Mexican state and federal government The project has resulted in the support to four
programs for support of LFG facility development municipalities to develop feasibility studies for
during the five years following project launch.           LFG facilities, and in the development of a
                                                          composting study:
                                                          i) Leon (Guanajuato)
                                                          ii) Ciudad Juarez (Chihuahua)
                                                          iii) Cuautitlan Izcalli (State of Mexico)


27Figure 12 represents a snapshot of the plant's performance in terms of generated electricity per generator, methane
emissions reduced and translation of reduced methane emission reductions into CO2e. These measurements are being
done continuously.


                                                        26

                                                           iv) Puerto Vallarta (Jalisco)
                                                           v) Composting studies for Queretaro, Tlanepantla,
                                                           Nuevo Laredo.
Increase in the number of planned LFG projects in The replication strategy has resulted in the
Mexico during the five years following project development of three more sites in Mexico,
launch.                                                    supported through carbon finance under the Kyoto
                                                           Protocol. The expansion of Monterrey is one of the
                                                           three   sites    included    in  the   signed  ERPA.
                                                           SIMEPRDOESO            and    SEISA     are  currently
                                                           finalizing arrangements, following delays during
                                                           the previous administration. The plant is expected
                                                           to operate by the end of 2007.

At the beginning of the project LFG facilities, Public Private Partnerships (PPP) in waste
management projects and carbon markets were non existent in Mexico. The project can be
credited with having: (i) successfully developed a LFG to power facility that generates clean and
cost effective energy; (ii) provided the technical know how and experience for this and for future
LFG to power projects; (iii) demonstrated a PPP and thus an innovative and efficient institutional
structure for this type of project; and (iv) initiated the carbon market in Mexico in a sector where
substantial mitigation can take place. This opened the door to the development of future CDM
projects in Mexico.

Figure 11: Motor-Generators                                   Figure 12: Plant Performance (electricity generated,
                                                                                reduction of GHG)




Sub-objective (A): Landfill gas facility successfully collecting energy and selling electricity.
The achievement of this sub-objective was rated satisfactory insofar as the plant operates above
design performance indicators. The plant which is the first LFG facility in Latin America has been
built without delays and started operation in September 200328. Seven generators are installed and


28The LFG system includes: 248 extraction wells with monitoring valves, collection pipes for conduction and control,
three vacuum pumps, filters, two flare stations for gas flaring. The latter operates as needed. The power generation
equipment consists of 7 modular generator sets, automated control equipment, seven set up transformers, switchgear
to feed the grid (CFE) lines. Other installations include: remote terminal unit, measurement equipment, offices,
warehouse and maintenance facilities, training facility.


                                                         27

generating 7.42 MW of which during the night 4.9 MW are sold to the municipalities for street
lighting29. CFE receives 2.3 MW, of which 0.2 MW are used for self consumption (see figure 12).
During the day Metrorrey (see figure 13) receives 5.9 MW satisfying 80% of their demand30, 1
MW is distributed between "Aguas y Drenaje", DIF and the State, and the remaining 0.3 MW are
used for self consumption. The PPP structure of the plant has proven to be successful and
independent of changing administrations. The plant is currently in a process of expansion. In
addition to good performance, efforts have been invested in making sure that the plant looks good.
A board announces the support of the Bank-GEF, a real-time display accounts the methane used,
power generated and equivalent CO2 displaced. Gardens surround the site, including a lagoon, and
a gardened path leads to the entrance of the plant. The information and capacity building center
and the plant count with a high number of national and international visitors.

        Figure 13: Metrorrey                                                  Figure 14: Seven generators




Sub-objective (B): Landfill gas technical, institutional and managerial knowledge and results
of demonstration project disseminated to potential LFG project participants through
technical reports, workshops, training, twinning arrangements and development of a
national strategy. The achievement of this sub-component was rated satisfactory. The rating
reflects the fact that at the start up of the project little knowledge was available in Mexico and in
the region on LFG projects as well as of its potential for Mexico and the region. The activity has
contributed to train SEDESOL staff on technical, institutional and managerial aspects of LFG
projects. Specifically, five high level SEDESOL employees were trained on topics ranging from
the generation of methane in landfills to its composition and several uses.

The activity also resulted in the visit of three SEDESOL employees to landfill facilities in the US
in order to become more familiar with the technology used for LFG capture and use and operation
of LFG facilities. This sub-component was key in developing technical support material about
each stage in the use of LFG including social and legal aspects as well as in elaborating associated
dissemination documents. SEDESOL developed an inter-active CD about the use of LFG and two
videos on: (i) the actual situation of waste management in Mexico and the use of LFG, and (ii) the
use of LFG generated in landfills for final disposal of municipal solid waste in the case of
Monterrey. With the objective to disseminate the elaborated material and specifically the


2930% of power requirements for street lighting of the metropolitan area of Monterrey are provided by the Monterrey
plant.
30With the expansion of the Monterrey plant, 100% of Metrorrey's power requirements will be covered.


                                                        28

Monterrey experience to as many municipalities as possible SEDESOL carried out several fora,
seminaries and workshops and developed a Manual for the Mexican LFG Model. In 2004
SEDESOL organized a national congress in order to disseminate the Monterrey experience. The
congress counted with the participation of public employees, representatives from the private and
the academic sector, and other interested parties. The broad participation in the national congress
was crucial to gaining public acceptance of the LFG Model. The results of the congress were
broadcast live by radio.31 Following the dissemination of the congress results, the National
Politechnical Institute started to include the use of LFG as an option to reduce GHG emissions in
its professional interdisciplinary engineering program.

                                     Figure 15: Energy generation process




With regard to capacity building SEDESOL held three workshops with a total of 156 participants
from 42 municipalities. The activity achieved its objective of building knowledge and developing
technical capacities among public employees with regard to LFG management, including the
planning, evaluation, supervision, design and operation of LFG facilities. The workshops also
addressed the development of a replication strategy. The workshops identified the need to
support the municipalities in the development of feasibility studies for the capture and use of LFG
in their solid waste disposal facilities as a first step in the decision making process on the use of
LFG. The project's capacity building and dissemination components were subsequently
restructured to provide funding for the feasibility studies (see paragraph 6.5 for further detail).

Four feasibility studies and a composting study were completed:.
    i)       Leon (Guanajuato)- with an estimated potential of 127 million m3 of methane and an
             anticipated installation of 2 MW. The expected emission reduction would amount to
             1.3 million tCO2e in 20 years.
    ii)      Ciudad Juarez (Chihuahua) -with an estimated potential for 0.85 MW and a CO2e
             reduction of 0.58 million t in 20 years.

31The radio station "Radio Capital" of the Toluca municipality also broadcasted an interview with the General
Director of the SEDESOL department for equipment and infrastructure in marginalized urban zones, and the General
Director of consultant firm "Estudios y Técnicas Especializadas en Ingenieria, S.A. de C.V." (ETEISA). The
interview pointed out the importance of the Monterrey Project and the negative implications of not improving waste
management practices and addressing related GHG emissions.


                                                       29

    iii)    Cuautitlan Izcalli (State of Mexico)- with an estimated potential of 1 MW and a
            projected reduction of 0.48 million t CO2e in 21 years;
    iv)     Puerto Vallarta (Jalisco) -with an estimated methane production of 54.14 million m3
            corresponding to a reduction of 0.75 million t CO2e (in 21 years) and with an installed
            capacity of 1 MW.
    v)      Composting studies for Queretaro, Tlanepantla, Nuevo Laredo, analyzing their
            technical, political and social feasibility were conducted. The studies indicated that
            composting would be economically feasible if the total generated compost was sold.
            The analysis did not include the savings generated by avoiding the disposal of the
            waste used for composting which would contribute to covering operational costs.

Sub-objective (C): Identification of LFG legislative needs and manner by which these needs
could be integrated into federal legislation. The achievement of this sub-component was rated
satisfactory. The study resulted in a first draft for the regulation of LFG. Based on the results of
this study technical SEDESOL staff participated in the formulation of the Official Mexican Norm
NOM-083-SEMARNAT-2003. This norm established the extraction, capture, conduction and
control of LFG generated in final disposal facilities. At the same time SEDESOL actively
collaborated in national and international fora with representatives from the public and private
sectors in order to advance on the consideration of the LFG generated in final disposal facilities as
a renewable energy source. While LFG to power as a renewable energy has not been fully
integrated into federal legislation, efforts undertaken under component C did result in
modifications to the regulations for solid waste management.

             Figure 16: Flares and lake                            Figure 17: LFG facility




Sub-objective (D): Mexican Experience disseminated regionally. The achievement of this sub-
component was rated satisfactory. The dissemination efforts have been very successful.
SEDESOL has managed to disseminate the Monterrey experience and the potential of LFG use
and capture projects throughout the region SEDESOL developed several activities, such as it
conducted a study of economic and technical effectiveness of LFG plants worldwide and
identified the technical, financial and institutional barriers to implementation in developing
countries as well as a best practice model appropriate to the Latin American context. It also
managed to issue over 20 technical documents (now in project files) and produced several videos.
SEDESOL has held two international conferences, with 189 participants representing 12 Mexican



                                                  30

municipalities and 7 countries (Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia, Argentina, Honduras, Guatemala and
Perú). They also produced a manual for project promoters and disseminated information on the
Mexican model for the calculation of LFG potential at Mexican sites, based on local information.
Listed are some of the documents that were prepared: i) design of capture and use of LFG in
closed disposal facilities; ii) study of scavengers situation; iii) design of a national strategy for the
construction and start up of landfills; iv) evaluation of financial capacities for the construction and
start up of capture and use of LFG projects; v) viability in the use LFG as renewable energy for
municipal services; vi) evaluation of the impact of recycling strategies on LFG projects; and vi)
replication methodology for Mexico. In 2004 SEDESOL set up a website with an interactive
information system on the use of LFG (http://www.biogas.gob.mx). SEDESOL entered into an
agreement with the Latin American Institute for Educative Communication, in 2003, to conduct
teleconferences on topics related to municipal and urban services with special emphasis on solid
waste and opportunities for the capture and use of LFG. In addition, ESMAP's "Handbook for the
Preparation of Landfill Gas to Energy Projects in Latin America and the Caribbean" includes the
Monterrey project as a successful model for LFG to energy projects, which is being followed
region wide.

Sub-objective (E): SEDESOL and SIMEPRODE Project management team in place and
operating successfully. The project management was rated satisfactory. Both implementing
agencies and the private sector partner have operated during the whole implementation period in a
very efficient manner achieving pre-defined performance indicators. Progress reports were
satisfactorily delivered to the Bank in time. They enabled the evaluation of progress and the
identification of critical issues. During project implementation SEDESOL and SIMEPRODE
counted on specialized technical and administrative staff providing full time support to the project.
The management structure of the plant (PPP) serves as a model for future projects. The
construction process, the operation and maintenance of the plant, and the process of acquiring
necessary permits and agreements for the operation of the plant as well as for the supply of the
electricity to the users were conducted in a very satisfactory way by Bioelectrica.


8.3     Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

This project has demonstrated:
    · a proven, cost-effective technology for LFG capture and use that results in reduction of
        GHG and serves as a model for the internalization of GHG control measures in SWM
        programs;
    · an institutional structure for implementation of LFG projects, including private sector
        participation;
    · clean energy generation at affordable, low cost.




                                                  31

                                    Appraisal                        Achieved to date
 IRR                                27.6% (with GEF grant)           17%
 NPV                                US$ 7.2 (with GEF grant)         US$ 7.1 (million)

In terms of financial indicators, at project appraisal the internal rate of return of the project was
estimated at 13.4 % and the NPV at USD 2.2 million without GEF financing. With the GEF grant
the IRR was expected to increase to 27.6% and the NPV to 7.2 million. The financial analysis was
run until 2021. At the end of the GEF project the project shows an IRR of 17% and a NPV of USD
7.1 million. The analysis per actor results in an IRR of 21% and NPV of USD 5.5 million for
SIMEPRODE, and an IRR of 13% and a NPV of USD 1.5 million for Bioelectrica. The annual
revenues show an increasing trend for SIMEPRODE and Bioelectrica. The difference between the
initially estimated financial indicators and the actual ones lies in three unexpected factors (see
paragraph 7.2 for further details):

    · Additional operation and maintenance cost because of siloxanes and initial problems in the
        adaptation of European technology to Mexican conditions
    · Additional back up and transmission costs charged by CFE
    · Problems in the transmission line caused interruptions in the energy supply to the energy
        users

The investment estimated for the expansion of the Monterrey plant is US$6.5 million for 5.3 MW
in comparison to US$10.8 for 7MW for the first Monterrey plant. This demonstrates how the
project has resulted in promoting gains in efficiency and economics of scale.

Economic Analysis. The economic analysis conducted for a period of 20 years is based on the
estimation of the plant infrastructure cost, the operation and maintenance cost, and the
transmission cost. In addition the residual value of the plant at the end of the lifetime of the
analysis is considered. On the benefit side, the analysis considers the electricity generated valued
at the price sold to the energy users specified in figure 12 and the environmental benefits in terms
of reduced GHG. The project also generates health benefits through reduced local pollutants and
reduced explosion risk. However, the analysis does not take the reduction of local pollutants and
their impact into account.

The project generates GHG emission reductions through two sources. In the site the LFG is
collected and burned for combustion, thus converting its methane content into CO2, reducing its
GHG effect. In addition, the generation and supply of electricity to the electrical grid, displaces a
certain amount of fossil fuels used for electricity generation. The Baseline scenario for the
emission reductions associated with the delivery of electric energy to the interconnected national
grid is the electricity delivered to the grid multiplied by an emission coefficient (measured in kg of
CO2e/KWh) calculated in a transparent and conservative manner for the Mexican National Grid as
the average of the "approximate operating margin" and the "build margin", where:

        (i)     The "approximate operating margin" is the weighted average emissions (in kg
                CO2e/KWh) of all generating sources serving the system, excluding hydro,
                geothermal, wind, low-cost biomass, nuclear and solar generation;



                                                   32

        (ii)    The "build margin" is the weighted average emissions (in kg CO2e/KWh) of recent
                capacity additions to the system, which capacity additions are defined as the greater
                (in MWh) of most recent 20% of existing plants or the 5 most recent plants.


The relative weighting of the operating margin emission rate and the build margin emission rate
will depend on the characteristics of the electric sector. The proposed default weighting is an
average of the operating and the build margins, where:



                    BaselineEmissionRate(tCO2 / MWh) =      0.764 + 0.404  = 0.584
                                                                  2

The results of the project's economic assessment over a target period of 20 years are presented in
the following table. The analysis considered two different emission reductions price scenarios
(USD 10 / t CO2e and US$ 15/ t CO2e) .



         Emission reduction price:                                      Emission reduction price:
            US$ 10 / t CO2e                                                 US$ 15 / t CO2e

 ERR                                25%                          ERR                             34%
 NPV                  US$ 11.10 million                          NPV                 US$ 19.34 million
 Cost Benefit                                                    Cost Benefit
 Ratio                              2.65                         Ratio                           3.06


8.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of GEOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

This rating reflects the fact that the project achieved all the outcome indicators as defined in the
PAD. Specifically the project was able to demonstrate a cost-effective technology for LFG capture
and use in the selected facility; to demonstrate an institutional structure for the implementation of
LFG projects, including private sector participation; to strengthen the UMS's regulatory policy and
social frameworks for the introduction of LFG capture and use in Mexico; to design a
dissemination strategy to share the lessons learned throughout Project implementation with
relevant stakeholders in Mexico and Latin America; and to design a strategy to encourage the
replication of the project in Mexico.


8.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

    (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development



                                                 33

Through the operation of this plant, as of October 1, 2006, 181,216 MWh of electricity have been
generated, benefiting the population of seven municipalities in the Monterrey Metropolitan Area
with clean and cheaper energy. In addition nearby inhabitants (approximately 10,000) have
benefited from the project through reduced landfill emissions.

    (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term
        capacity and institutional development)

The implementation of the first LFG facility in Latin America has demonstrated a feasible
institutional structure involving the private sector in a mainly public sector domain. The project
has contributed to the process of incorporating the treatment of LFG as a cost-effective and clean
option in waste management approaches. One of the major barriers identified during project
preparation was the participation of the municipalities in this and future projects. This barrier is
based on short administration periods and reluctance to invest in this kind of project because of
high initial investment cost without immediate results and because of lack of information e.g. on
economic benefits and financial indicators. However, municipalities in the Monterrey metropolitan
area have been fully on board during the whole implementation process. The reduced electricity
price was key in the negotiation process and continues to represent a strong incentive as well as
additional resources for the municipalities. At the same time the capacity building and
dissemination components of the project have resulted in the training of 468 technical staff
country wide involved in municipal waste management on LFG. Several municipalities are now in
the process of developing replication projects (four feasibility studies have been supported under
this project; the follow up project involves three more sites under carbon finance). The project has
also strengthened SEDESOL's capacity with regard to LFG initiatives.

    (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None


8.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for
        Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Participants in the closing workshop were represented by both the implementing agencies,
Banobras (the financial intermediary), the Bank, and representatives from four municipalities and
from the Ministry of Environment. The whole day session highlighted the achievements of the
project and demonstrated the progress in replicating the Monterrey experience.

9.      Assessment of Risk to Global Environment Outcome

Rating: Low

The risk that the development outcomes of the project will not be maintained is very low. The
plant is operating very satisfactorily and in a financially and institutionally sustainable way. The
project can be credited with having built public and private sector capacity to promote and manage



                                                 34

LFG projects in Mexico thus strengthening the sustainability of this project and promoting the
development of future projects. In addition, the project has removed most of the barriers to the
implementation of LFG projects in Mexico.

On the contractual side, the agreements with CFE are long-term and valid as long as the plant is
operating. The contracts with the municipalities and with the other energy consumers are for a
duration of five years. The contracts specify that unless one of the parties wishes to terminate the
agreement, they are automatically extended. Considering the economic benefits for the
municipalities through the reduced price of electricity, the risk of the discontinuity in purchasing
the services is very low. The cost of street lighting represents one of the highest expenses carried
by the municipalities. The cost savings provides municipalities with additional resources for other
expenditures.

Plans are already underway for the expansion of the Monterrey plant. Together with SEISA,
Monterrey II has been developed as a carbon finance operation (see paragraph 8.1 for further
details). The risk incurred in the original project related to the deficient transmission line is
expected to be solved by setting up a substation for the expansion of the Monterrey plant. All the
risks identified at appraisal stage as substantial have been overcome during project implementation,
such as: (i) identification of adequate non-GEF financing mechanisms for future replication; (ii)
effectiveness of dissemination and training programs in reducing barriers to replication in Mexico
and LAC; and (iii) payment by electricity consumers. The risk of not identifying adequate non-
GEF financing mechanisms for future replication has been mitigated by supporting future projects
through carbon emission reduction revenues. The first ERPA in Mexico has been signed for three
sites and the related projects will be implemented following the Monterrey example in 2007.
Regarding the payment by electricity consumers, no delays in the payments by the municipalities
have been reported to date.

The capacity building, dissemination and replication components developed by SEDESOL are
further strengthening the sustainability of this and of future projects. Under the replication
activities five feasibility studies have been developed and the potential for composting has been
identified for Mexico. The Aguascalientes plant has already started operation this year (2006 - gas
flaring; 2007 - cogeneration facility) based on the Monterrey experience and benefiting from
emission reduction revenues. The GEF project can be credited with having developed the capacity
for developing and implementing LFG projects in Mexico and with having removed the barriers
for its implementation.

10.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory




                                                   35

The Bank performance at project entry was satisfactory. The project was well identified,
responsive to the request and needs of the country and consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), government priorities and the UNFCCC. The delay in the project's
effectiveness was smoothed out by the performance of the implementing agencies and the Bank.
The technical assistance and appraisal process provided a thorough assessment that resulted in a
smooth project implementation. The project site was adequately selected. The performance
indicators were realistic and useful for assessing the progress towards achieving the project
objectives. The support provided to the implementing agencies was adequate and issues and
potentials were identified and addressed on time.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision is rated as satisfactory. The Bank team visited the project approximately twice a
year. In addition to the review of progress reports provided by the clients and to continuous
interaction with the clients, the visits further helped the team to address issues proactively and to
support the achievements of project objectives. At the same time the Bank team was flexible and
proactive, accelerating the replication efforts by revising the project technical assistance to support
several feasibility studies and by developing the first carbon finance operation based on the
Monterrey model.

( c )  Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance rating of the Bank is satisfactory.          This is based on the quality of
preparation and supervision, and the experience and proactivity of the Bank team. The clients also
rated the performance of the Bank as satisfactory. The technical and financial knowledge of the
team was deemed very useful for project implementation. The twice a year supervision missions
by the Bank were just right to stay abreast of implementation progress to guarantee an overall
project supervision beyond desk reviews of issued progress reports and continuous interaction
with the client. The Bank support was considered beneficial for the capacity building and
dissemination activities. The involvement of the Bank reassured the clients that the funds would
be managed in a transparent and efficient way. The clients however expressed some concerns that
the bureaucracy of the Bank would increase transaction cost because of lengthy and complex
procedures inside the Bank.

10.2    Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory




                                                  36

The overall government performance is rated satisfactory. The project set a precedent in dealing
with LFG power projects. The ground breaking nature of the project explains much of the delay
between approval and effectiveness, during which complex arrangements were required to secure
the agreements between different agencies involved in project implementation. To justify this
rating it is essential that we emphasis the role of the many public actors involved:

Municipalities: Municipalities were key in the business model, they issued letters of intention
which ensured the revenues generated by the electricity sale to the municipalities could be
considered at the time the rate of return was calculated.

State of Nuevo León: As Grant recipient and gas provider, it played a key role in decreasing the
project's risk. It also facilitated negotiations with federal authorities.

CRE/CFE: Government entities that issued permits and contracts. Despite willingness to support
the project, the bureaucracy made it slow and complicated.

Legislation: The lack of legislation on this subject caused delays, confusion, lack of support, and
discontent by stockholders when costs increased.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

 Implementing
    Agency                                              Performance

                 The performance of SIMEPRODE was rated satisfactory insofar as it complied with the
                 responsibilities assigned during appraisal. The responsibilities consisted in supervising the
                 construction of the plant, operating the plant and realizing the technical and financial
                 evaluation of the project. In addition SIMEPRODE carried out the following activities:
                      · Competing with different cities around the country to obtain the GEF grant to
                          carry out the project.
                      · Carrying out the bidding process to select the strategic partner.
                      · Processing documentation and permits with CRE, CFE, and SUTERM.

SIMEPRODE             · Processing environmental documentation and permits.
                      · Monitoring and surveillance of LFG production.

                 By project completion SIMEPRODE has achieved:
                      · Construction of the plant in accordance with pre-defined schedule, design and
                          budget;
                      · Exceeding performance indicators in terms of plant operation and environmental
                          impacts;
                      · Expansion of Monterrey plant.

                 The performance of SEDESOL was rated satisfactory. The rating reflects the achievement

SEDESOL          of most of the pre-defined performance indicators. In addition SEDESOL issued the
                 progress reports in a timely and satisfactory manner. In terms of specific outcomes
                 SEDESOL can be credited with the production of:



                                                      37

                     · Study of LFG projects worldwide
                     · Method for the development of a LFG project in Mexico
                     · Design of a system to capture and use LFG
                     · Mexican LFG model
                     · Preparation and dissemination of extensive dissemination material
                     · Four capacity building workshops with 220 participants from 55 municipalities
                     · Two international conferences
                     · Set up of Website for project
                     · Four feasibility studies for LFG projects in Mexico and one composting study
                     · Legal study for LFG inclusion into federal legislation

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of the overall borrower performance was satisfactory.
This rating reflects the fact that the project was able to demonstrate a cost-effective technology for
LFG capture and use in a selected facility; to demonstrate an institutional structure for the
implementation of LFG projects, including private sector participation; to strengthen the UMS's
regulatory policy and social frameworks for the introduction of LFG capture and use in Mexico; to
design a dissemination strategy to share the lessons learned throughout project implementation
with relevant stakeholders in Mexico and Latin America; and to design a strategy to encourage the
replication of the project in Mexico. The implementing agencies are credited with these
achievements.

Further, the Monterrey plant has outperformed most technical standards. It has delivered emission
reductions at a rate twice the original estimate; it has been on line 91% of the time and has
successfully adapted the technology to local environmental conditions. The dissemination and
training program was closely linked to the operation of the plant and has delivered on all of its
objectives. The current carbon finance facility for LFG use units under SEISA can be deemed a
direct result of the success of the Monterrey experience.

BANOBRAS was the financial intermediary. BANOBRAS appointed a core group of staff with
the required expertise to assist in the intermediation process.           During the preparation and
supervision stages, BANOBRAS provided the necessary inputs. BANOBRAS also participated in
most field visits during supervision and was instrumental in providing information on the status of
accounts, contracting processes, including bidding, and procurement information on a timely basis.
Audits were done on a timely basis. The project did benefit from the participation of BANOBRAS.

The performance of the strategic partner was highly satisfactory. The private sector partner was
selected through an international competitive bidding process (using Bank Procurement
guidelines) and has provided 53% of the financing of the plant (USD 5.9 million of a total
investment of USD 10.8 million). The construction process, the operation and maintenance of the
plant, and the process of acquiring necessary permits and agreements for the operation of the plant
as well as for the supply of the electricity to the users were conducted in a very satisfactory way
by Bioenergia.




                                                    38

11.     Lessons Learned

Adaptation of foreign technology to local conditions needs to be taken into account in the
initial economic evaluation of a project. The acquisition of foreign technology entails adaptation
to local conditions but also additional maintenance cost during operation of the plant. In the case
of Monterrey this has led to considerable additional cost for the operator and to delays.

Due to current LFG legislation, additional time is needed to process the corresponding
permits and/or contracts. Though the project has removed several regulatory barriers and
Mexico implemented its regulation of LFG there are still uncertainties and gaps within Mexican
Law with regards to the consideration of LFG as renewable energy source. This may lead to
lengthy procedures in obtaining the necessary permits and in establishing contracts with energy
consumers which need to be taken into account while planning LFG projects.

Initial gas estimation. Future projects should seek more certainty on the amount of available gas
in order to avoid additional cost once the plant is set up. Field measurements and conservative
mathematical model to estimate the gas amount will help in that regard.

Continuous dissemination and capacity building process. The administration periods of
municipal authorities in charge of SWM are relatively short (three years). This makes the learning
process on LFG management at times difficult. For that reason a continuous dissemination and
capacity building program is essential to sustain municipal buy in. In this regard incentives such as
discounts on electricity prices, and the potential for improved local environmental and social
conditions through LFG projects, have proven to be helpful. Project financed feasibility studies
have been important factors in the municipalities' decision to engage in LFG projects.

Involvement of the private sector. The involvement of the private sector has been very effective
and proven feasible in a mainly public sector domain. In the context of changing governments, the
private sector involvement helped ensure that the plant management would be consistent and
uninterrupted.

High energy prices benefit LFG to power projects in Mexico. The energy price charged by the
CFE is relatively high in the regional context (twice as high compared to Colombia). This had a
considerable impact on the project's financial indicators. However, in countries with lower energy
prices the LFG to power option might not be financially feasible. The flaring of the LFG provides
an option that generates emission reductions and helps at the same time improve final disposal
practices. Future energy price scenarios should be taken into account while assessing the
feasibility of LFG to power projects.

Financing tools for LFG projects. In future many uncertainties while planning and setting up a
LFG facility can be overcome with the perspective of a long-term and reliable revenue generated
from emission reductions. The availability of emission reductions revenues provides an investor
with more certainty on his investment and also bears the possibility of addressing social and
environmental programs with part of the revenues. The option of carbon finance as a financing
tool needs to be further disseminated.




                                                 39

12.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
See Annex 10.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           40

                                 Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis


Global Environment Objectives


Project Development Objective:

The proposed GEF project sought to demonstrate a proven technology for landfill gas (LFG) capture and
use and reduce barriers to development of future LFG projects. The GEF project built upon an existing
Government and Bank-supported program to modernize solid waste management in small- and medium-
sized cities. The project was intended to result in immediate reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases
(GHG) and to serve as a model for the internalization of GHG control measures in solid waste management
programs.

The objectives of the Project were to expand the assistance provided to the Recipient under the Baseline
Project for the improvement of solid waste management by: (a) demonstrating a cost-effective technology
for LFG capture and use in a selected facility; (b) demonstrating an institutional structure for the
implementation of LFG projects, including private sector participation; (c) strengthening the UMS's
regulatory policy and social frameworks for the introduction of LFG capture and use in Mexico; (d)
designing a dissemination strategy to share the lessons learned throughout Project implementation with
relevant stakeholders in Mexico and Latin America; and (e) designing a strategy to encourage the
replication of the Project in Mexico.

Key performance indicators:

The LFG collection system and power plant to be installed and operated at the SIMEPRODE landfill
located in Salinas Victoria near the Monterrey metropolitan area in the State of Nuevo León, the key
physical activity of the project, was expected to capture or substitute for an equivalent of 0.99 million tons
of carbon over 20 years. The key performance indicator for this component was that the demonstration
LFG facility was shown to be technically, financially and institutionally feasible within the Mexican
context. The key performance indicators that monitor the performance of the remaining components
(Capacity Building, Policy and Regulatory Reform and Regional Dissemination) were: i) the number of
potential participants in LFG projects in Mexico and Latin America to whom technical, institutional, and
managerial knowledge on LFG were made available; ii) incorporation of LFG management issues into
proposed legislation; iii) increase in number of government programs for support of LFG facility.


Revised Global Environment Objectives
The original GEO and performance indicators were not revised.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)


                                                                      Formally   Actual Value Achieved at
Indicator      Baseline       Original    Target     Values    (from Revised
               Value          approval documents)                     Target     Completion      or   Target

                                                                      Values     Years

Indicator 1 :  Landfill gas capture and use facility proven to be technically, institutionally and financially
               feasible in the Mexican context.
Value          Landfill gas At least 155,000 MWh of electricity                  Plant    operates    beyond
(quantitative is not being produced, at least 54 million cubic                   performance       indicators:
or             captured,      meters    of methane    collected   and            Approximately       180,000


                                                     41

Qualitative) landfill    gas destroyed, at least 95 % of energy sold              MWh have been produced
              facility   not to members of Cogeneration company.                  to date, around 70 million
              constructed                                                         cubic meters of methane
                                                                                  collected and destroyed,
                                                                                  95% of energy sold to
                                                                                  members.
Date
achieved      05/30/2002     06/30/2006                                           10/20/2006

Comments
(incl.
achievement) operation.
           % The   plant reached 70% of the emission reductions foreseen for 20 years in 3 years of


Indicator 2 : Number of potential participants in LFG projects in Mexico to whom technical, institutional
             and managerial knowledge on LFG were made available.
                                                                                  To date 468 technical staff
                                                                                  involved with municipal
Value                        LFG technical, institutional, managerial             waste management have
(quantitative 0              knowledge     and   results   of  project            been       trained,      five
or            Participants. disseminated to potential LFG project                 feasibility  studies    have
Qualitative)                 participants.                                        been supported, Carbon
                                                                                  finance           operations
                                                                                  developed for three landfill
                                                                                  sites.
Date
achieved      05/30/2002     06/30/2006                                           10/20/2006

Comments
(incl.     % 100%
achievement)

Indicator 3 : Identification of LFG legislative needs and the manner by which these can be integrated into
             federal legislation.

Value                                                                             Legal    study    completed.
(quantitative No      study          of legislative study integrated in           Based        on         study
or            realized    in Results
                             draft proposed legislation.                          formulation of the Official
Qualitative)  that regard.                                                        Mexican Norm NOM-083-
                                                                                  SEMARNAT-2003.
Date
achieved      05/30/2002     12/30/2005                                           10/20/2006

Comments      80% of the objective has been achieved as the supported study has identified the LFG
(incl.
achievement) has
           % legislative  needs and their integration in federal legislation. While LFG as renewable energy
                  not been fully integrated into federal legislation, efforts undertaken under component C
             did result in modifications to the regulations for solid waste management.
Indicator 4 : Mexican experience disseminated regionally.
                                                                                  Two             international
                                                                                  conferences held. ESMAP
                                                                                  handbook includes project
                                      Region-wide       dissemination             as     model,       followed
                                                                                  regionwide.
Value                                 through             conferences,
(quantitative                         workshops, website.                         Five    feasibility  studies
or            No dissemination.                                                   developed under project,
Qualitative)                          At least six follow up projects
                                      identified and initiated based              one plant about to start
                                      on Monterrey experience.                    operation      next     year,
                                                                                  Carbon finance operation
                                                                                  developed for three landfill
                                                                                  sites. Project disseminated
                                                                                  in Mexico and in Latin


                                                      42

                                                                                America.
Date
achieved      05/30/2002            06/30/2006                                  10/20/2006

Comments
(incl.     % 100%
achievement)

Indicator 5 : SEDESOL and SIMEPRODE Project Management Team in Place and Operating
              Successfully.
                                                                                Project was successfully
                                                                                executed     and    achieved
Value                                                                           performance        indicators
(quantitative No    Project Project successfully executed meeting               very satisfactorily.
or            Management. all indicators by year 5.                             The            implementing
Qualitative)                                                                    agencies    executed    their
                                                                                components as defined and
                                                                                in time.
Date
achieved      05/30/2002    06/30/2006                                          10/20/2006

Comments
(incl.     % 100
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                                                 Formally

  Indicator   Baseline Value   Original Target Values (from       Revised      Actual Value Achieved at
                                    approval documents)           Target     Completion or Target Years
                                                                  Values

Indicator 1 : LFG collection system, LFG treatment plant, Power plant, electrical substation and
              interconnection line in place and operating, and associated training provided.
Value
(quantitative No plant in      Plant has successful record of                Plant operation exceeds
or            place            operation.                                    performance indicators. Plant
Qualitative)                                                                 in process of expansion.

Date achieved 05/30/2002       06/30/2006                                    10/20/2006
Comments
(incl. %      100%
achievement)
              SEDESOL staff trained on LFG; Study tour for SEDESOL staff completed; technical
Indicator 2 : materials disseminated to government and private entities; Public dissemination of project;
              LFG training courses held; National replication strategy developed.
                               SEDESOL staff trained; best                   As a consequence of the
Value                          practice manual developed;                    project 468 technical staff
(quantitative No training and public dissemination conducted                 trained, (replication efforts)
or            dissemination    nationally through workshops,                 five feasibility studies
Qualitative)  plan             conferences, media; national
                               replication strategy developed;               developed and ERPA for
                                                                             three sites signed.

Date achieved 05/30/2002       06/30/2006                                    10/20/2006
Comments      100%
(incl. %      The objectives of this component were fully achieved on the training and dissemination
achievement) components even though some activities were replaced by feasibility studies. The



                                                    43

              replication study went beyond its objectives by preparing the ground to the actual
              replication of the Monterrey experience through the financing of feasibility studies.
Indicator 3 : Legal study completed;
                                                                            Consideration of LFG use as
Value                                                                       renewable energy source on
(quantitative No legal         Results of study integrated in               stand by; Resubmission to
or            assessment       proposed federal legislation.                new administration.
Qualitative)                                                                Regulation on establishment
                                                                            of LFG facilities advanced.
Date achieved 05/30/2002       12/30/2006                                   10/20/2006
Comments
(incl. %      80%
achievement)
              Study on LFG projects worldwide conducted; International LFG workshop carried out;
Indicator 4 : dissemination materials: Production of manual for project promoters dissemination of
              Mexican LFG model;
                                                                            Study completed; project
Value                                                                       successfully disseminated
(quantitative                                                               through various media in
or            No study         Study completed                              Mexico and Latin America;
Qualitative)                                                                Project serves as model for
                                                                            this type of project.
Date achieved 05/30/2002       06/30/2006                                   10/20/2006

Comments      100%
(incl. %      Beside the study on LFG projects worldwide, the component resulted in two international
achievement)  conferences and in producing a manual for project promoters and in developing the
              Mexican LFG model. The project is integrated as model in the ESMAP handbook.

Indicator 5 : 2 feasibility studies for LFG projects in Mexico developed and 2 more are planned in the
              framework of the project (replication);

Value                                                                       Five feasibility studies
(quantitative No studies of    Four feasibility studies have                developed (including a
or            additional       been commissioned.                           composting composting
Qualitative)  plants                                                        study) and providing good
                                                                            basis for replication
Date achieved 05/30/2002       06/30/2006                                   10/20/2006
Comments
(incl. %      100%
achievement)




                                                     44

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)




             45

                              Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

           (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                   Appraisal
                  Components                     Estimate (USD      Actual/Latest Percentage of

                                                      M)         Estimate (USD M)  Appraisal

DETAILED ENGINEERING DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION OF A PLANT FOR                                4.92               4.92     100.00
METHANE CAPTURE AND USE
CAPACITY BUILDING                                          0.60               0.60     100.00
REGULATORY REFORM                                          0.05               0.05     100.00
REGIONAL (LAC) DISSEMINATION                               0.50               0.50     100.00
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                         0.20               0.20     100.00
                              Total Baseline Cost          6.27               6.27
Physical Contingencies                                     0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.00

                              Total Project Costs          6.27

Front-end fee PPF                                          0.00               0.00        0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                         0.00               0.00        0.00


                        Total Financing Required           6.27               6.27




b) Financing

                                                   Appraisal
         Source of Funds              Type of                       Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                    Cofinancing  Estimate (USD   Estimate (USD M)  Appraisal
                                                      M)
 Borrower                                                  0.40               0.52      > 100%
 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY                                                   6.27               6.27        100%

 FOREIGN PRIVATE
COMMERCIAL SOURCES                                         6.58                5.8         88%
(UNIDENTIFIED)

(c) Disbursement Profile




                                                 46

                                     Annex 4. Outputs by Component

          Component and
              Objectives                                   Achieved output and rating

    Detailed Engineering Design The achievement of this sub-objective was rated satisfactory
    and Construction of a Plant insofar as the plant operates above design performance indicators.
    for Methane Capture and The plant which is the first LFG facility in Latin America has
    Use:                                been built without delays and started operation in September
    Landfill      gas       facility 200332. Seven generators are installed and generating 7.42 MW of
    successfully collecting LFG, which during the night 4.9 MW are sold to the municipalities for
    producing energy and selling street lighting33. CFE receives 2.3 MW, of which 0.2 MW are
    electricity.                        used for self consumption (see figure 12). During the day
                                        Metrorrey (see figure 13) receives 5.9 MW satisfying 80% of their
                                        demand34, 1 MW is distributed between "Aguas y Drenaje", DIF
                                        and the State, and the remaining 0.3 MW are used for self
                                        consumption. The PPP structure of the plant has proven to be
                                        successful and independent of changing administrations. The plant
                                        is currently in a process of expansion. In addition to good
                                        performance, efforts have been invested in making sure that the
                                        plant looks good. A board announces the support of the Bank-
                                        GEF, a real-time display accounts the methane used, power
                                        generated and equivalent CO2 displaced. Gardens surround the
                                        site, including a lagoon, and a gardened path leads to the entrance
                                        of the plant. The information and capacity building center and the
                                        plant count with a high number of national and international
                                        visitors.
    Capacity building. Landfill The achievement of this sub-component was rated satisfactory.
    gas   technical,   institutional The rating reflects the fact that at the start up of the project little
    and managerial knowledge knowledge was available in Mexico and in the region on LFG
    and results of demonstration projects as well as of its potential for Mexico and the region. The
    project     disseminated      to activity has contributed to train SEDESOL staff on technical,
    potential     LFG        project institutional and managerial aspects of LFG projects. Specifically,
    participants through technical five high level SEDESOL employees were trained on topics
    reports, workshops, training, ranging from the generation of methane in landfills to its
    twinning arrangements and composition and several uses.
    development of a national The activity also resulted in the visit of three SEDESOL
    strategy.                           employees to landfill facilities in the US in order to become more
                                        familiar with the technology used for LFG capture and use and
                                        operation of LFG facilities. This sub-component was key in
                                        developing technical support material about each stage in the use
                                        of LFG including social and legal aspects as well as in elaborating


32The LFG system includes: 248 extraction wells with monitoring valves, collection pipes for conduction and control,
three vacuum pumps, filters, two flare stations for gas flaring. The latter operates as needed. The power generation
equipment consists of 7 modular generator sets, automated control equipment, seven set up transformers, switchgear
to feed the grid (CFE) lines. Other installations include: remote terminal unit, measurement equipment, offices,
warehouse and maintenance facilities, training facility.
3330% of power requirements for street lighting of the metropolitan area of Monterrey are provided by the Monterrey
plant.
34With the expansion of the Monterrey plant, 100% of Metrorrey's power requirements will be covered.


                                                         47

                                      associated dissemination documents. SEDESOL developed an
                                      inter-active CD about the use of LFG and two videos on: (i) the
                                      actual situation of waste management in Mexico and the use of
                                      LFG, and (ii) the use of LFG generated in landfills for final
                                      disposal of municipal solid waste in the case of Monterrey. With
                                      the objective to disseminate the elaborated material and
                                      specifically the Monterrey experience to as many municipalities as
                                      possible SEDESOL carried out several fora, seminaries and
                                      workshops and developed a Manual for the Mexican LFG Model.
                                      In 2004 SEDESOL organized a national congress in order to
                                      disseminate the Monterrey experience. The congress counted with
                                      the participation of public employees, representatives from the
                                      private and the academic sector, and other interested parties. The
                                      broad participation in the national congress was crucial to gaining
                                      public acceptance of the LFG Model. The results of the congress
                                      were broadcast live by radio.35 Following the dissemination of the
                                      congress results, the National Politechnical Institute started to
                                      include the use of LFG as an option to reduce GHG emissions in
                                      its professional interdisciplinary engineering program.
                                      With regard to capacity building SEDESOL held three
                                      workshops with a total of 156 participants from 42 municipalities.
                                      The activity achieved its objective of building knowledge and
                                      developing technical capacities among public employees with
                                      regard to LFG management, including the planning, evaluation,
                                      supervision, design and operation of LFG facilities. The
                                      workshops also addressed the development of a replication
                                      strategy. The workshops identified the need to support the
                                      municipalities in the development of feasibility studies for the
                                      capture and use of LFG in their solid waste disposal facilities as a
                                      first step in the decision making process on the use of LFG. The
                                      project's capacity building and dissemination components were
                                      subsequently restructured to provide funding for the feasibility
                                      studies (see paragraph 6.5 for further detail).

                                      Four feasibility studies and a composting study were completed:.
                                           iv)     Leon (Guanajuato)- with an estimated potential of 127
                                                   million m3 of methane and an anticipated installation
                                                   of 2 MW. The expected emission reduction would
                                                   amount to 1.3 million tCO2e in 20 years.
                                           v)      Ciudad Juarez (Chihuahua) -with an estimated
                                                   potential for 0.85 MW and a CO2e reduction of 0.58
                                                   million t in 20 years.
                                           vi)     Cuautitlan Izcalli (State of Mexico)- with an
                                                   estimated potential of 1 MW and a projected
                                                   reduction of 0.48 million t CO2e in 21 years;


35The radio station "Radio Capital" of the Toluca municipality also broadcasted an interview with the General
Director of the SEDESOL department for equipment and infrastructure in marginalized urban zones, and the General
Director of consultant firm "Estudios y Técnicas Especializadas en Ingenieria, S.A. de C.V." (ETEISA). The
interview pointed out the importance of the Monterrey Project and the negative implications of not improving waste
management practices and addressing related GHG emissions.


                                                       48

                                  iv)      Puerto Vallarta (Jalisco) -with an estimated methane
                                           production of 54.14 million m3 corresponding to a
                                           reduction of 0.75 million t CO2e (in 21 years) and
                                           with an installed capacity of 1 MW.
                                  v)       Composting studies for Queretaro, Tlanepantla,
                                           Nuevo Laredo, analyzing their technical, political and
                                           social feasibility were conducted. The studies
                                           indicated that composting would be economically
                                           feasible if the total generated compost was sold. The
                                           analysis did not include the savings generated by
                                           avoiding the disposal of the waste used for
                                           composting which would contribute to covering
                                           operational costs.

Regulatory            reform. The achievement of this sub-component was rated satisfactory.
Identification    of     LFG The study resulted in a first draft for the regulation of LFG. Based
legislative needs and manner on the results of this study technical SEDESOL staff participated
by which these needs can be in the formulation of the Official Mexican Norm NOM-083-
integrated    into    federal SEMARNAT-2003. This norm established the extraction, capture,
legislation.                  conduction and control of LFG generated in final disposal
                              facilities. At the same time SEDESOL actively collaborated in
                              national and international fora with representatives from the
                              public and private sectors in order to advance on the consideration
                              of the LFG generated in final disposal facilities as a renewable
                              energy source. While LFG to power as a renewable energy has not
                              been fully integrated into federal legislation, efforts undertaken
                              under component C did result in modifications to the regulations
                              for solid waste management.
Regional (Latin America) The achievement of this sub-component was rated satisfactory.
Dissemination.       Mexican The dissemination efforts have been very successful. SEDESOL
experience       disseminated has managed to disseminate the Monterrey experience and the
regionally (LAC)              potential of LFG use and capture projects throughout the region
                              SEDESOL developed several activities, such as it conducted a
                              study of economic and technical effectiveness of LFG plants
                              worldwide and identified the technical, financial and institutional
                              barriers to implementation in developing countries as well as a
                              best practice model appropriate to the Latin American context. It
                              also managed to issue over 20 technical documents (now in
                              project files) and produced several videos. SEDESOL has held
                              two international conferences, with 189 participants representing
                              12 Mexican municipalities and 7 countries (Colombia, Ecuador,
                              Bolivia, Argentina, Honduras, Guatemala and Perú). They also
                              produced a manual for project promoters and disseminated
                              information on the Mexican model for the calculation of LFG
                              potential at Mexican sites, based on local information. Listed are
                              some of the documents that were prepared: i) design of capture
                              and use of LFG in closed disposal facilities; ii) study of
                              scavengers situation; iii) design of a national strategy for the
                              construction and start up of landfills; iv) evaluation of financial
                              capacities for the construction and start up of capture and use of
                              LFG projects; v) viability in the use LFG as renewable energy for


                                              49

                          municipal services; vi) evaluation of the impact of recycling
                          strategies on LFG projects; and vi) replication methodology for
                          Mexico. In 2004 SEDESOL set up a website with an interactive
                          information         system       on     the     use      of      LFG
                          (http://www.biogas.gob.mx).        SEDESOL       entered   into    an
                          agreement with the Latin American Institute for Educative
                          Communication, in 2003, to conduct teleconferences on topics
                          related to municipal and urban services with special emphasis on
                          solid waste and opportunities for the capture and use of LFG. In
                          addition, ESMAP's "Handbook for the Preparation of Landfill
                          Gas to Energy Projects in Latin America and the Caribbean"
                          includes the Monterrey project as a successful model for LFG to
                          energy projects, which is being followed region wide.
Project      Management. The      project   management      was    rated  satisfactory.    Both
SEDESOL and SIMEPRODE implementing agencies and the private sector partner have
Project Management Team in operated during the whole implementation period in a very
Place     and   Operating efficient manner achieving pre-defined performance indicators.
Successfully               Progress reports were satisfactorily delivered to the Bank in time.
                           They enabled the evaluation of progress and the identification of
                           critical issues. During project implementation SEDESOL and
                           SIMEPRODE counted on specialized technical and administrative
                           staff providing full time support to the project. The management
                           structure of the plant (PPP) serves as a model for future projects.
                           The construction process, the operation and maintenance of the
                           plant, and the process of acquiring necessary permits and
                           agreements for the operation of the plant as well as for the supply
                           of the electricity to the users were conducted in a very satisfactory
                           way by Bioelectrica.




                                            50

      Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

A detailed financial analysis was performed at the beginning and at the end of the project. The
results are shown below:
Investment costs: At appraisal the costs of design and construction of the LFG capture and use
facility were determined through a detailed technical design of the collection system and power
plant to be constructed at the SIMEPRODE landfill. The costs were confirmed through quotes by
suppliers. The following table demonstrates the cost estimates at appraisal with actual costs.
Exchange rate changes need to be taken into consideration:

                                                          Appraisal            Actual
                                     Item                Cost (pesos)       Real (pesos)
                                                            Budget             Budget
                      Gas collection system               18,020,000         22,225,276
                      Treatment plant                      500,000
                      Engine house                         400,000            3,894,120
                      Engines                             49,815,000
                                                           9963000           75,284,324
                      Electrical substation (34.5                             2,088,000
                      kV)                                  7,670,000

                      Interconnection line                 4,000,000          5,481,000
                      Training                             350,000
                      Subtotal                            90,718,000        108,972,720
                      Contingencies (10% physical;
                      7% price)                           15,422,060          3,779,280
                      Total Investment                   106,140,060        112,752,000

                       Total Investment (USD)*            (US $11.5           US $10.8
                                                           million)            million

*The total investment costs are provided based on the exchange rate valid at the time of the financial evaluation.

Differences between the originally estimated and the actual cost items include:

   · The training of the operators was carried out as part of the capacity building under
        component 2 of the GEF Project, and thus not considered under component 1.
   · The LFG treatment plant was found to be not necessary anymore.
   · An engine house as such was not built. The actual item includes civil works for the set up
        of the generators, the office, workshop and capacity center.
   · The substation resulted more economic than previously estimated.




                                                       51

The current and projected project cash flow including the financial indicators per actor is as
follows (in USD):

                                   Estimated Project Cash Flows
                              Bioenergía de Nuevo León, S.A. de C.V.
                                         Simeprode

                            YEAR   (investment includesBemsa*Global*
                                       GEF grant for
                                     component 1) *
                                  0       ($5.08)      ($5.72) ($10.80)
                                  1        $0.09        $0.09   $0.18
                                  2        $1.01        $0.93   $1.94
                                  3        $1.49        $0.48   $1.97
                                  4        $1.19        $0.84   $2.03
                                  5        $1.22        $0.86   $2.09
                                  6        $1.26        $0.89   $2.15
                                  7        $1.30        $0.91   $2.21
                                  8        $1.34        $0.94   $2.28
                                  9        $1.38        $0.97   $2.35
                                 10        $1.42        $1.00   $2.42
                                 11        $1.46        $1.03   $2.49
                                 12        $1.51        $1.06   $2.57
                                 13        $1.55        $1.09   $2.64
                                 14        $1.60        $1.12   $2.72
                                 15        $1.64        $1.16   $2.80
                                 16        $1.69        $1.19   $2.89
                                 17        $1.74        $1.23   $2.97
                                 18        $1.80        $1.27   $3.06
                                 19        $1.85        $1.30   $3.16
                                 20        $1.91        $1.34   $3.25
                           IRR             21%          13%     17%
                           NPV*
                           10%             $5.54        $1.53   $7.07


:




                                                52

In the first 3 years of implementation the SIMEPRODESO and Bioelectrica have obtained the
following results on average:

Cash Flow by actor for the first years
of implementation in USD:
                                     Bioelectrica
                                   de Monterrey           Average results in Benlesa (2003-2006)
   Year           Simeprode           (BEMSA)                              in USD
                                                      Investment per MW                $1,348,000

       2003            $90,916            $89,155     Average sale price per kwh        $0.0813
                                                      Sale cost per kwh                 $0.0654
                                                      CFE cost per kwh:                 $0.0085
       2004         $1,010,289          $929,830      O&M cost per kwh:                 $0.0217
                                                      LFG cost per kwh:                 $0.0225
       2005         $1,488,528          $478,887      Cost for technological support
                                                      per kwh:                          $0.0127

                                                      Administration cost per kwh       $0.0124
   2006*              $477,144          $286,673
* as of June 2006
                                                      Profit before financial cost and
                                                      taxes:                            $0.0035




Economic analysis:
The economic analysis conducted for a period of 20 years is based on the estimation of the plant
infrastructure cost, the operation and maintenance cost, and the transmission cost. In addition the
residual value at the end of the lifetime of the analysis is considered. On the benefit side, the
analysis considers the electricity generated valued at the price sold to the energy users specified in
figure 12 and the environmental benefits in terms of reduced GHG. The project also generates
health benefits through reduced local pollutants and reduced explosion risk. However, the analysis
doesn't take the reduction of local pollutants and their impact into account.

The project generates GHG emission reductions through two sources:
In the site the landfill gas is collected and burned for combustion, thus converting its methane
content into CO2, reducing its GHG effect.

In addition, the generation and supply of electricity to the electrical grid, displaces a certain
amount of fossil fuels used for electricity generation.

The Baseline scenario for the emission reductions associated with the delivery of electric energy to
the interconnected national grid is the electricity delivered to grid multiplied by an emission
coefficient (measured in kg of CO2e/KWh) calculated in a transparent and conservative manner
for the Mexican National Grid as the average of the "approximate operating margin" and the
"build margin", where:

           (iii)  The "approximate operating margin" is the weighted average emissions (in kg
                  CO2e/KWh) of all generating sources serving the system, excluding hydro,
                  geothermal, wind, low-cost biomass, nuclear and solar generation;


                                                   53

        (iv)     The "build margin" is the weighted average emissions (in kg CO2e/KWh) of recent
                 capacity additions to the system, which capacity additions are defined as the greater
                 (in MWh) of most recent 20% of existing plants or the 5 most recent plants.


The relative weighting of the operating margin emission rate and the build margin emission rate
will depend on the characteristics of the electric sector. The proposed default weighting is an
average of the operating and the build margins, where:

BaselineEmissionRate(tCO2 / MWh) =             0.764 + 0.404     = 0.584
                                                     2

The results of the project's economic assessment over a target period of 20 years are presented in
the following table. The analysis considered two different emission reductions price scenarios
(USD 10 / t CO2e and US$ 15/ t CO2e)

                                   Total     Net
                                 revenues  revenues                                           Total    Net revenues
                Initial    Total (15 US$/t (15 US$/t                 Initial               revenues (10 (10 US$/t
    Year      investment   cost   CO2e)     CO2e)         Year     investment   Total cost US$/t CO2e)   CO2e)
        2002         -10.8                     -10.8          2002        -10.8                               -10.8
        2003                1.02      4.06      3.04          2003                      1.0         3.3         2.3
        2004                4.02      8.06      4.05          2004                      4.0         6.8         2.8
        2005                4.38      8.25      3.87          2005                      4.4         7.0         2.6
        2006                4.48      8.29      3.80          2006                      4.5         7.3         2.8
        2007                4.40      8.36      3.96          2007                      4.4         7.3         2.9
        2008                4.43      8.36      3.94          2008                      4.4         7.3         2.9
        2009                4.68      8.61      3.93          2009                      4.7         7.6         2.9
        2010                4.99      8.89      3.90          2010                      5.0         7.8         2.8
        2011                4.34      8.20      3.85          2011                      4.3         7.1         2.8
        2012                4.60      8.44      3.84          2012                      4.6         7.4         2.8
        2013                4.91      8.72      3.80          2013                      4.9         7.7         2.7
        2014                4.10      7.84      3.74          2014                      4.1         6.8         2.7
        2015                4.38      8.09      3.72          2015                      4.4         7.0         2.7
        2016                4.62      8.34      3.72          2016                      4.6         7.3         2.7
        2017                4.92      8.61      3.69          2017                      4.9         7.6         2.6
        2018                3.89      7.49      3.60          2018                      3.9         6.4         2.5
        2019                4.15      7.73      3.57          2019                      4.2         6.7         2.5
        2020                4.42      7.99      3.57          2020                      4.4         6.9         2.5
        2021                4.73      8.28      3.54          2021                      4.7         7.2         2.5
        2022                4.82      9.21      4.39          2022                      4.8         7.6         2.8
TOTAL (NPV)                21.83     66.89     45.06 TOTAL (NPV)                      21.83      57.83        23.01

ERR                                             34% ERR                                                        25%
NPV                                          $19.34  NPV                                                     $11.1

Cost Benefit                                         Cost Benefit
Ratio                                            3.1 Ratio                                                      2.6




                                                         54

         Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

         Names                        Title                    Unit         Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Cecilia Maria Balchun      Finance Analyst             LOAG1                Disbursement

John Morton                Environmental Spec.         EASEN                Environmental
                                                                            assessment
Victor Manuel Ordonez      Sr Financial Management
Conde                      Spec.                       LCSFM                Financial Management

Lea Braslavsky             Procurement Spec.                                Procurement
Walter Vergara             Lead Chemical Engineer      LCSEN                Task manager
Supervision/ICR
Jose M. Martinez           Procurement Spec.           LCSPT                Procurement Post review
Victor Manuel Ordonez      Sr Financial Management
Conde                      Spec.                       LCSFM                Financial Management

Rosa G. Valencia De
Estrada                    Consultant                  LCSPT                Procurement

Efraim Jimenez             Lead Procurement Spec.    LCSPT                  Procurement
Seraphine Marie
Haeussling                 E T Consultant              LCSEN                Supervision, ICR

Walter Vergara             Lead Chemical Engineer      LCSEN                Project manager

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.      Date ISR                                                Actual Disbursements (USD
         Archived                IP                 GEO                     M)
1   06/19/2001            Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             0.00
2   06/28/2001            Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             0.00
3   11/28/2001            Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             0.00
4   04/12/2002            Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             0.00
5   08/29/2002            Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             1.87
6   12/16/2002            Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             3.35
7   05/21/2003            Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             5.34
8   07/16/2003            Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             5.34
9   12/01/2003            Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             5.48
10 06/04/2004             Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             5.90
11 11/30/2004             Satisfactory        Satisfactory                             5.90

12 04/26/2005              Highly
                        Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory                      6.19

13 11/30/2005              Highly             Highly
                        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                               6.19

14 05/24/2006              Highly
                        Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory                      6.27




                                                  55

((c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget
                                                                   Only)
                     Stage of Project Cycle
                                                       USD Thousands (including travel
                                                            and consultant costs)

Lending

                             FY99                                                 12.38
                             FY00                                                391.23
                             FY01                                                 98.27
                                                Total:                           501.88

Supervision/ICR

                             FY99                                                  0.00
                             FY00                                                  0.00
                             FY01                                                  0.00
                             FY02                                                 37.99
                             FY03                                                 49.16
                             FY04                                                 46.53
                             FY05                                                 52.87
                             FY06                                                 37.99
                             FY07                                                 49.16
                                                Total:                           235.71




                                             56

                Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance



          Bank                      Ratings          Borrower               Ratings
Ensuring Quality at Entry: Satisfactory       Government:          Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory       Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:     Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:               Satisfactory       Performance:         Satisfactory




                                             57

                           Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

A structured interview with key beneficiaries was conducted after project completion in October.
The beneficiaries were asked the following questions:

   · Are you familiar with the Bioenergia company and its activities?
   · What is your perception of the benefits provided by Benlesa?
   · Do you think Benlesa should be replicated in other sites?

The beneficiaries of the survey included the director of CECODAP (Control Center for street
lighting), three directors of street lightning, and the director of public maintenance.

The specific results are provided below:

Municipality of San Pedro Garza García, N.L.

1. Do you know what Bioenergía de Nuevo León, S.A. de C.V. is and what it does?
Yes, the sale of electricity from the decomposition of organic waste that produces methane gas.
What he doesn't know is whether we use a furnace or gas turbines to operate the generator.

2. What is your perception of the benefits that Benlesa provides you?
The price. He knows how much the savings are, and also that it's worthwhile for him to deal
directly with us (Benlesa) because it's a better deal than with CFE.

3. Do you think Benlesa should be replicated in other parts of Mexico?
Of course, it should be replicated everywhere, because there's trash everywhere, besides the way it
can be used.

Municipality of Escobedo, N.L.

1. Do you know what Bioenergía de Nuevo León, S.A. de C.V. is and what it does?
Yes, it uses the methane gas generated in SIMEPRODE as a fuel to operate the turbines and
thereby generate electricity, which in turn is conveyed through CFE which provides them with 700
kW electricity.

2. What is your perception of the benefits that Benlesa provides you?
Actually, very good for the price, even the service is good.

3. Do you think Benlesa should be replicated in other parts of Mexico?
Definitely yes, for the price and service. With more providers we can select the best option.

Municipality of Monterrey , N.L.

1. Do you know what Bioenergía de Nuevo León, S.A. de C.V. is and what it does?
Yes, a company that sells electricity to the urban areas of the state of Nuevo León, at a cheaper
cost than that of CFE, by generating from waste.




                                                    58

2. What is your perception of the benefits that Benlesa provides you?
The cost per kWh is 10% cheaper than CFE. They currently give us only 700 kW but we'd like
them to sell us more electricity, 50% at least of the 7 MW we require.

3. Do you think Benlesa should be replicated in other parts of Mexico?
Of course, because it's a program of savings for municipalities. I don't know exactly what the
process is for generating from waste­that's your business--but there's no question about the
savings. It's very easy to understand.

Municipality of Santa Catarina, N.L.

1. Do you know what Bioenergía de Nuevo León, S.A. de C.V. is and what it does?
Yes, it generates electricity from waste and obtains methane gas.

2. What is your perception of the benefits that Benlesa provides you?
The greatest benefit is the savings, between 10 and 12% for us directly. Besides, I've heard about
the ecological benefit but I don't know much about it.

3. Do you think Benlesa should be replicated in other parts of Mexico?
I think so, because for us it's a real savings that comes from electricity.

Municipality of Guadalupe, N.L.

1. Do you know what Bioenergía de Nuevo León, S.A. de C.V. is and what it does?
Yes, it takes electricity from SIMEPRODE's methane gas and conveys it to CFE, and we sell it
cheaper to them.

2. What is your perception of the benefits that Benlesa provides you?
That Benlesa charges less than CFE.

3. Do you think Benlesa should be replicated in other parts of Mexico?
Yes, but we would supply more energy to them.




                                                    59

                  Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)


Summary of Comments from the Workshop on the Closing of the Methane Gas Project
Grant TF-028268-ME

The workshop was held in Mexico City on October 17, 2006.

Twenty-five public servants from ten municipalities and federal agencies, such as SEMARNAT
and BANOBRAS, attended. SIMEPRODE and World Bank staff participated as well.

The Monterrey experience was presented, not only as a starting point for the start-up of operations
at plants that process the methane gas generated in final disposal sites of urban solid waste, but
also for the growth and development of Monterrey II.

The workshop also presented the participation of Mexican municipalities that are carrying out
projects for the use of LFG, besides the Grant project, such as Aguascalientes which is developing
its own project under the scheme of Carbon Revenues, and León which is presently carrying out
the bidding process for the use of methane gas from its sanitary landfill.

The attendance of municipalities with a strong potential for replicating the project to capture and
use methane gas from their sanitary landfills, made it possible to demonstrate various project
financing options using World Bank resources and those of the Mexican Government.

Attendees agreed on the importance of continuing to hold this type of workshops which
disseminate national and international efforts to develop projects for the use of methane gas
generated in final disposal sites of urban solid waste, thus allowing other Mexican municipalities
to implement such projects.

World Bank - ESMAP LFG to Energy Initiative for the Latin American region - Launching
workshop

The World Bank, with ESMAP support, is undertaking a project to promote LFG-to-Energy
projects in the LAC region. In this framework, a launching Workshop was carried out in the city
of Monterrey, Mexico, during 23 and 24 October 2003. The main objectives of the workshop
were:
    · Dissemination of LFG-to-energy projects
    · Presentation of the handbook for the preparation of LFG-to-energy projects in the LAC
       region
    · Collection and inclusion of pertinent comments from participants to the workshop in
       the handbook

The following link provides information on the background of the initiative, its objectives and
components and includes all the technical documents
http://www.bancomundial.org.ar/lfg/gas_about_004.htm.


                                                 60

            Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of executing agencies' ICR

Bank's Performance
The Bank performance was rated by both implementing agencies as highly satisfactory. In
summary, the following aspects were highlighted:
·   The Bank has professional staff with adequate technical and financial staff for the project.
·   It fulfilled the agreed commitments regarding economic contributions and technical-financial
advisory services.
·   Bank staff monitored the project, visiting installations twice a year to learn about project
progress and to carry out a general supervision of the project.

Executor's Performance
·   Supervision of engineering, operation, and technical and financial evaluation of the project.
·   Dissemination of technology at local, national, and international levels.

Summary of SIMEPRODE's Actions
   · Competing with different cities around the country to obtain non-reimbursable World Bank
       funds through the GEF to carry out the project.
   · Carrying out the bidding process to select the strategic partner.
   · Processing documentation and permits with CRE, CFE, and SUTERM.
   · Processing environmental documentation and permits.
   · Monitoring and surveillance of LFG production.

Factors that Affected Performance
   · The use of motor generators that worked properly in their country of origin (Austria) but,
       when operated in a state (Nuevo León) under totally different environmental conditions
       (mainly high temperatures), the operation of the machines had to be modified.
   · The constant maintenance of units, affected by various factors, including the presence of
       xiloxanes in the gas.

Sustainability
With respect to contracts, those dealing with CFE are open-ended contracts during the plant's
operation. Contracts for the supply of energy to municipalities and for other energy receptors
(Metro, DIF, Water and Drainage, State Government) are for a period of five years and may be
extended without the need for written notification. Thus, as long as the plant maintains economic
benefits, it is unlikely that any user will consider the contracts terminated.
The plant contracts with SIMEPRODE are for 20 years (Provision of Gas, Technical Assistance,
and Corporate Services). The lease contract between BENLESA and SIMEPRODE is for 5 years
and is extendable.

Lessons Learned
   · The electricity generation equipment purchased in another country must be adjusted and
       tested in accordance with local conditions.



                                                   61

    · Until Mexico's legislation is adjusted, it will be necessary to schedule in greater detail the
       time to process the corresponding permits and/or contracts.

Performance Indicators
    · Efficiency of motor generators.
    · Amount of electricity generated.
    · Variation in LFG composition (CH4, CO2, and O2).

Products Obtained by Component:

1. Engineering, Design, and Construction of the Methane Use and Capture Plant:

·     The plant was constructed on time, in the correct form, and within budget.
·     The plant has exceeded performance expectations.
·     The company is in the process of expansion.

2. Development of Institutional Capacity:

·     Institutional arrangements between the public partner and private partners were carried out
satisfactorily.
·     Contracts for Joint Venture, Social Statutes, Provision of LFG, Land Leasing, Engineering,
Design and Construction of the Plant, Operation and Maintenance, as well for Assistance and
Corporate Services, were approved and signed by all parties involved.
·     SEDESOL prepared a document that describes the project in all its stages as well as the
elements involved in it.

3. Regulatory Reform:

·     It was not possible to carry out the regulatory reform with regard to LFG as renewable
energy.
·     Procedures and document processing to develop new projects are in place but are lengthy
and very complicated.

4. Regional Dissemination:

·     SEDESOL carried out a series of dissemination workshops and events in Mexico and abroad.
·     The project has been promoted in all media.
·     SEDESOL created a project web page.
·     SEDESOL created CDs showing Monterrey's experience.
·     The plant has received a large number of visitors.

5. Project Management:

·     Specialists were trained in the subject of LFG at the plant and at SEDESOL.
·     100 percent of the Environmental Administration Plan was met.
·     A structure was created for project management and administration.



                                                  62

·    A training room was built inside the plant.

Environmental and Social Performance
   · Through the operation of this plant, as of October 1, 181,216 MWh of electricity have been
       generated, benefiting the population of seven municipalities in the Monterrey Metropolitan
       Area. Furthermore, with the savings obtained through the payment of this service (around
       $600,000 pesos per year) each municipality can carry out social infrastructure works.
   · During the month of July 2006 electricity began to be delivered to the Metrorrey
       Collective Transportation System and to several other government agencies.
       Internationally, Metro was the first to be fueled by clean energy from trash.
As of October 1, 2006, the emission of 39,867 MT of methane into the atmosphere, equivalent to
719,990 MT of CO2, has been avoided.

Summary of Banobras' ICR:
Background            This grant, in the amount of US$6.27 million, was granted by the
                      Global Environment Facility (GEF) through the World Bank on
                      October 29, 2001 to the Mexican Government, to be executed by the
                      Secretariat of Social Development (SEDESOL) and the Metropolitan
                      Solid Waste Processing System (SIMEPRODE), for the purpose of
                      financing the Demonstration Project on the Capture and Use of
                      Methane Gas from Sanitary Landfills located in Salinas Victoria in the
                      metropolitan zone of the City of Monterrey, Nuevo León.

Disbursements         The resources were fully used and the performance of the operating
                      mechanism was highly satisfactory.

                      Comments and lessons learned: The execution of the project and the
                      operating mechanism for disbursements were especially efficient for
                      this grant.

                      The factors that, in our opinion, influenced this efficiency include:
                          · SEDESOL's experience in the execution of programs with
                              external resources;
                          · The good coordination undertaken by the executors to reach
                              agreements and take the corresponding steps in a timely
                              manner;
                          · The good design of the projects that were financed and the
                              executors' sense of ownership of these projects; and
                          · The good preparation of the program approved by the World
                              Bank with regard to the characteristics of the projects
                              supported and the characteristics of the executors.
Financial             In our opinion, the project's financial management by the executors
Management            and the support provided by the financial agent were satisfactory.

                      However, coordination with the World Bank, at the time when it was
                      decided to change the currency denomination of the special rights grant
                      to dollars, should have been better in order to avoid problems in terms
                      of programming expenditures and budgets for executing agencies.




                                                  63

               This change in denomination generated an overdraft of US$382,327 in
               the category of goods under the responsibility of SIMEPRODE, which
               caused the balance to be disbursed on behalf of SEDESOL to decrease
               by US$195,792, and its internal expenditures had to be readjusted with
               areas of the budget.

               Comments and lessons learned: In our opinion, the World Bank
               could have given more timely notice to the financial agent and the
               executors regarding the change in the grant's currency denomination
               and the implications this would have.

               In particular, it is important to consider that this type of modifications
               can have significant budgetary implications that affect the executors'
               other areas of work.

Conclusions    The execution of the grant is considered to be very satisfactory because
               project objectives were achieved broadly, thanks to the outstanding
               participation of SEDESOL and SIMEPRODE executors, the efficient
               coordination of SHCP, and the good project preparation by the World
               Bank's technical team.

               For BANOBRAS this operation was of special interest due to the
               synergies between the sectors of the projects financed and this Bank's
               mandate. Of particular interest was the use of the Clean Development
               Mechanism because of its great potential for application in this and
               other sectors that BANOBRAS serves on a daily basis throughout the
               country.

               It is of strategic interest for BANOBRAS to continue its cooperation
               with the World Bank and SEDESOL on these matters.

               It is worthwhile to note that, in our opinion, the project's success is due
               in great part to the good cooperation that SEDESOL and SIMEPRODE
               established in their respective spheres of influence, to achieve the
               collaboration of federal, state, and municipal agencies and institutions,
               and of these and the private sector and academia.

               We also consider this project to be a successful case that should be
               used as a case study to determine the key factors that played a role in
               the efficiency of execution, and seek to replicate them in other projects.




                                            64

Annex 11: Comments of co-financiers and other stakeholders




                           65

                       Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

· Project Appraisal Document for Mexico: Methane Gas Capture and Use At A Landfill ­
  Demonstration Project. Report No. 22112-ME
· Grant Agreement for Mexico: Methane Gas Capture and Use At A Landfill ­
  Demonstration Project.
· ESMAP: Handbook for preparing LFG-to-Energy Projects in Latin America and the
  Caribbean ­ September 2003.
· Project Appraisal Document for Mexico: Waste Management and Carbon Offset Project.
  Report No: 30430-MX.
· Proyecto para captura y uso de gas metano en varios rellenos. SEISA, Febrero 2004
· Proyecto piloto para la captura      y uso de gas metano. Actividades de diseminacion.
  SEDESOL. Febrero, 2004
· Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management Plans for the Solid
  Waste Management Project, SCS Engineers. November 2004.
· Financial and sensitivity analysis for the three project sites. SEISA, December 2004.
· Social Impact Assessment, December 2004.
· Business Model for Association with Landfill Operators (PPT file). SEISA, January 2005.
· Feasibility study for Monterrey facility by ETEISA.
· Mexican LFG model, SEDESOL.
· Proyecto Piloto Para El Aprovechamiento del Biogas de Los Sitios de Disposicion Final de
  Residuos Sólidos Municipales, Estudio de Factibilidad de Aprovechamiento del Biogas
  Generado en el Relleno Sanitario del Area Metropolitana de Monterrey, N. L. Estudios Y
  Technicas Especializadas en Ingeniera S. A. de C. V.(ETEISA)
· Projecto Piloto Para El Aprovechamiento del Biogas Generado en Sitios de Disposicion
 Final de Residuos Sólidos. January, 1999 (Estudio de Prefactibilidad), ETEISA.
· Proyecto Pilot Para El Aprovechamiento del Biogas de Sitios de Disposicion Final de
  Residuos Sólidos Municipales, presentacion del Estudio de Prefactibilidad, ETEISA.
· Proyecto Piloto Para El Aprovechamiento del Biogas Generado en Sitios de Disposicion
 Final de Residuos Sólidos. October, 1999, ETEISA.
· Estudio Preliminar de Impacto Ambiental Para Proyecto: Conversion de Biogas a Energia
  Eléctrica, SIMEPRODESO, September 2000.
· Proyecto Piloto Para El Aprovechamiento de Biogas De los Sitios de Disposicion Final De
  Residuos Sólidos Municipales, Analisis Social, ETEISA, September, 2000.
· Conditions of Selling Price of Electric Energy from Private's and Cooperative Small Scale
  Power Generation, Minister of Mines and Energy, The Republic of Indonesia.
· Advancing Sugar Cogeneration Development in Uttar Pradesh, India, Policy Review and
  Power Purchase Agreements, George E. St. John, P.E.
· Sugarmill Power Sale Contracts, International Cane Energy Network, Winrock
  International.
· Standardised Agreement for Purchase of Electrical Energy Between The Ceylon Electricity
  Board and (Renewable Source Small Power Producer).
· Electricity Energy Supply Contract and Proposal for Arrangement of Financing. Bio-Gen
  Project, Honduras.




                                            66

· Draft Power Purchase Agreement From PT PLN (Persero).
· Project Description for Proposed Bamboo Fired Biomass Power Plant Project in Sula
  Valley, Honduras.
· World Resources Institute: Navigating the Numbers, 2005.
· SEMARNAT/INE: Second National Communication. December 2003.
· SEMARNAT/INE: Third National Communication, 2006.
· ESMAP Handbook for Preparation of LFG to Energy Projects includes the project as a
  successful example for LFG to power projects.
· Mexico - Country partnership strategy progress report; Report No. 37934-MX, FOR THE
  PERIOD FY05-08, January 8, 2006.
· Mexico ­ Country assistance strategy, Report No. 23849-ME, April 23, 2002.




                                         67

                                                  Annex 13. Expansion of Monterrey Plant

Basic concepts:

POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENTS
Current contracts will be modified offering more energy to users.

GAS SUPPLY AGREEMENT
Current contract will be adjusted including new extraction areas to assure the gas supply to the
expansion in Benlesa.

INTERCONECTION, WHEELING AND BACKUP CONTRACTS
Current contracts with CFE will be modified.

ENGINEERING, CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CORPORATE
SERVICES AGREEMENTS
Current agreements will include expansion.

Estimated potential:

                                                Estimated Electricity & Landfill Gas Generation
                                                  Monterrey II (Celdas 99,00,01,02,03,04 y 05)

                7,000




                6,000




                5,000




                4,000
   kWe

      teda                                    5.3 MW
          mti   3,000
             Es

                                                      4.2 MW


                2,000
                                                                 3.2 MW



                1,000                                                          2.1 MW




                  -
                     1995 1998 2001 2004 2007 2010  2013  2016   2019  2022  2025   2028 2031 2034 2037 2040 2043 2046 2049 2052

                                                                          Year


                                                                      kWe       (m3/hr)



Economics:
Proposal: Design, financing, construction and operation for expansion of LFG to power
installation using gas from cells 99, 00, 01, 02, 03, 04 and 05 at Simeprode's landfill (equivalent
to 6.1 mill. metric ton. of waste).




                                                                                  68

Financing: The project will be financed with equity from the shareholders using the current share
participation (53%-47%).

Project Cost: The initial investment estimation is around US$6.5 million for 5.3 MW plant
capacity.

Project Lifetime: 20 years.

The next steps involve:

  -    Use the current permits and contracts of Bioenergía de Nuevo León, S.A. de C.V.
  -    Expand the ongoing facility to produce more energy on a lower cost basis.
  -    Project estimations predict that the solid waste placed between 1999 to 2006 will produce
enough gas to install a 5.3 MW power plant, decreasing to 2.1 MW by 2027.

Benefits:

Destruction of at least 180,000 metric tons of CO2 per year.
5 MW of renewable energy contribution.
US$1.1 million will be invested for electrification of rural areas.
Reforestation using native species.
Rural jobs generation.
US$ 6.5 million investment in electricity sector
12% discount cost for street lightning energy supply.
Prevents consumption of 4,000 metric tons of heavy oil to produce energy




                                                 69

