Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9554CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 16, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of August 15, 1991)
Currency Unit        - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00                 Y5.22
Y 1.00                  US$0.19
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mnter (m)           - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)     -  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       -  15 mu
1 ton  (t)           -  1,000 kg
2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)         2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC                - Agricultural Bank of China
BA                 - Bureau of Agriculture
BAP               - Bureau of Aquatic Products
BFM                - Bureau .of Fisheries Management
BOF               - Bureau of Finance
CAAS              - Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
DCA               - Development Credit Agreement
DFM                - Division of Fisheries Management
EA                - Environmental Assessment
EPB               - Environmental Protection Bureau
FDC               - Fruit Development Company
FMP               - Fishery Management Plan
GVAO              - Gross Value of Agricultural Output
ICB               - International Competitive Bidding
IDRI              - Industrial Crops Research Institute
LCB               - Local Competitive Bidding
LG                - Leading Group
MOF                - Ministry of Finance
NEPA               - National Environmental Protection Agency
PCBC              - People's Construction Bank of China
PCR               - Project Completion Report
PMO               - Project Management Office
PO                - Project Office
RCC                - Rural Credit Cooperatives
SOE               - Statement of Expenditure
SCSFRI            - South China Seas Fishery Research Institute
SEZ               - Special Economic Zone
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CIHINA
GQUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL-DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:       Guangdong Province
Amount:            SDR 121.7 million (US$162 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-Lending Terms: From the Government to Guangdong Province: terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, with repayment over 15 years, including five
years of grace, with interest at 6% per annum. On-lending rates
to final beneficiaries would be no less than Agricultural Bank of
China charges for subloans for similar purposes with similar
maturities. Guangdong Province would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Obiectives and
DescriRtion:       The project would increase fish production in the 100-250 m depths
of the South China Sea, thus relieving pressure on near-coastal
resources; develop coastal mud flats and low-lying land for
aquac-Iture; increase production of fruits on sloping land; bring
new land into agricultural production and improve river flow
conditions in the Pearl River delta; and provide modern
agroindustrial facilities for handling and processing. It would
include: provision of 86 fishing vessels; construction of about
4,000 ha of ponds and 11,000 cares for aquaculture; improvement of
10,700 ha and establishment of 3,300 ha of orchards on
uncultivated hilly lands; land reclamation works for improvement
and expansion of 6,500 ha of sugarcane; establishment of
agroprocessing facilities to utilize locally available raw
materials; and a poverty alleviation package comprising studies,
infrastructure and development loans for households and village
groups in a recognized poverty area.
Benefits:          At full development, incremental benefits totalling US$102 million
would be generated from production of 87,600 t of fruit, 75,350 t
of aquatic products, 550,000 t of sugarcane and 47,800 t of
intercropped vegetables, and agroindustrial output (US$13
million). The project has an overall economic rate of return of
28a. About 72,000 households would directly benefit from project
activities, and about 645,000 people in the limestone mountain
area would benefit either directly or indirectly, through improved
infrastructure.
Risks:             The project faces no unusual technical or organizational risks.
Project management would be strengthened under the project and the
main components have a long history of cultivations and operation,
and farmers and fishermen already have experience and basic
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
knowledge. Risks are being minimized by phasing of investments,
provision of tech.nical assistance, and, in the marine fisheries
component, by implementation of resource surveys and development
of a fisheries management plan.
Estimated Costs           Local       Foreign      Total
- . . . (US$ million)  - - -
Marine Fisheries             5.6        44.7        50.3
Aquaculture                 49.0         12.2       61.2
Agriculture                 77.0         32.0      109.0
Agroindustry                16.0        15.3        31.3
Poverty Alleviation         19.2         0.3        19.5
Base Cost                  166.8       104.5       271.3
Physical Contingencies       9.5          5.3       14.8
Price Contingencies        11.2          6,5        12.7
Total Project Cost         i87.5       116.3       303.8
/a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
Financing Plan;           Local       Foreign      Total
- - - - (US$ million) - - - -
Provincial, Municipal and
County Governments       12.0         0.0         12.0
Enterprises and Farmers   53.2          0.0         53.2
Domestic Banks              76.6        0.0         76.6
IDA                        45.7       116.3        162.0
Total                      187.5      116.3        303.8
Note:  Figures may not add exactly due to rounding.
Estimated IDA Disbursements
1992   1993  1994  1995   1996   1997   1998  1999
-  -- -__-   --   -
Annual                      15.0   20.0  30.0   35.0   35.0   20.0    5.0   2.0
Cumulative                  15.0   35.0  65.0  100.0  135.0  155.0  160.0 162.0
Economic Rate of Return:   28%



- iii -
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table  of Contents
Page No.
I.      BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A.   Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.   The Agricultural  Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .1
C.   The  Fisheries  Subsector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
D.   The  Fruit  Subsector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
E.   Sectoral  Objectives  and Bank  Lending  . . . . . . . . . .3
F.   Guangdong  Province  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
G.   Project  Formulation  and Rationale    . . . . . . . . . . .7
II.     THE  PROJECT AREAS    . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .                             7 . .7
A.   Location  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
B.   Climate    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
C.   The  Pearl  River  Delta   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
D.   Topography  and  Soils  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
E.   Present Agricultural  Development  . . . . . . . . . . . .10
F.   Present  Fisheries  Development   . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
G.   The  Poverty Area  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
H.   Institutional  Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
I.   Transportation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
III.   THE  PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
A.   Project Objectives  and Relation  to Sector   . . . . . . .14
B.   Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
C.   Detailed  Features    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
D.   Status  of  Project  Preparation   . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
E.   Implementation  Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
F.   Cost  Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
G.   Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
H.   Procurement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .27
I.   Disbursements    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
J.   Accounts  and Audits    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
K.   Environmental  Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
This report is based on FAO/CP preparation reports (April 1989 and May 1990) and the findings of a
preappraisal mission in June 1990 comprising: N. Hill, H. Kim (IDA) and H. Blaxall, C. CampLell, L.C. Chen,
C.L. Cheong, C. Cronberg, J. Talbot and G. Breekveldt (Consultants)i a technical review mission in October
1990 comprising N. Hill, B. Kim (IDA), G. Breekveldt, C. Cronberg, C. Jones and L.L. Low (Consultants)t and
an appraisal mission in January 1991 comprising: N. Hill, H. Kim, J. Stemp (IDA) and L.C. Chen, C.L. Cheong,
C. Cronberg and C. Jones (Consultants). Peer reviewers comprised S. Loayza (AGRPS), G. van Santen (EMTAG),
Y. Choi (ASTAG), H. Eisa (AGRPS), and B. Albinson (ASTAO).  The Task Manager is N. Hill, the AS3AG DivisLon
Chief is J. Goldberg, and the Department Director is Sh&hid Javed Burki.



- iv -
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
A.  Project Organization . . . . . . .  . .  . .  . . . . . .31
B.  Leading Groups and Project Offices . . . . . . . . . . .31
C.  Implementation and Management of Production. . . . . . .32
D.  Financial Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
E.  Execution of Project Works . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36
F.  Project Launch Workshop  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .36
G.  Monitoring, Evaluation and F.-.porting . . . . . . . . . .36
V.   PRODUCTION   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .37
A.   Fisheries   .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .38
B.  Agriculture    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .39
C.    Agroindustry   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .40
VI.  MARKETS AND PRICES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
A.  Market Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
B.  Marketing Channels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
C.   Prices    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .44
VII.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .45
A.   Benefits    .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .   .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .45
B.  Employment   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .45
C.  Financial and Economic Analyses  . . . . . . . . . . . .46
D.  Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . .47
TEXT TABLES
2.1  Project Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
3.1  Design Characteristics of Fishing Vessels  . . . . . . 15
3.2  Distribution of Aquaculture Subprojects  . . . . . . . 18
3.3  Distribution of Agriculture Subprojects  . . . . . . . 21
3.4  Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
3.5  Procurement Profile  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
5.1  Annual Primary Production at Full Development  . . . . 37
ANNEXES
1.    Basic Data
Provincial and Project Area Statistics - Agriculture . . . .50
Provincial and Project Area Statistics - Marine Fisheries  .51
Fruit Production in Guangdong Province and Project Areas . .52
Aquatic Products Production (1979-1989).  . . . . . . . . . .53
List of Project Locations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54
2.    Marine Resources and Management
Main Species and Catches from Marine Fisheries . . . . . . .56
Number of Fishing Vessels and Production (1979-1989) . . . .57
Vessel Retirement Plan . . . . . . i . . . . . .  . . . . . 58
Appraisal of Potential Yields for Fishery Resources  . . . .59
Electronic Communication, Navigation and Fishing Aids  . . .62
Proposed Fisheries Management Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . .65



3.   Description of Agroindustries  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68
4     Project Cost Summary and Expenditure Schedule  . . . . . . .71
5.    Procurement
Procurement Arrangements by Component  . . . . . . . . . . .74
Summary  of  Contracts   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .76
Procurement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .77
6.    Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
7.   Responsibility for Proiect Design and Implementation . . . .80
8.    Farm Models and Operating Costs
Farm   Models  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .84
Operating costs of Vessels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
Operation Assumptions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87
Distribution of Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .88
9.    Financial and Economic Analysis
Summary of Financial and Economic Analysis . . . . . . . . .89
Selected Conversion Factors  . .     .     . . . . . . . . . 90
Farm Gate Prices of Selected Projet  Outputs and Inputs    .91
Historical Farm Gate Prices of Project Inputs and
Outputs in Guangdong  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Average Prices of Major Imports and Exports . . . . . . . . 93
10.   Monitoring and Supervision
Key Monitoring Indicators   ....  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .   . 94
Supervision  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  95
11.   Selected Docume=nts and Data Available in the Proiect File. .97
FIGURES
Figure 1 - Details of Modaomen Zhuhai Reclamation Project . 98
Figure 2 - Details of Jiaomen (Panyu) Reclamation Project . 99
CHARTS
Chart 1 - Marine Fisheries  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  100
Chart 2 - Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
MAP
IBRD -  22925  - South China Sea Fishing Area
IBRD -  22926  - Project Components



CHIN
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOEMENT PROJECT
I.  BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1         The Government of China has requested International Development
Association assistance in financing an agricultural development project in
Guangdong Province. The main objectives of the project are to exploit marine
resources in the South China Sea, utilize coastal lands, and accelerate and
diversify agricultural development in hilly inland areas and on reclaimed land in
the Pearl River delta. The proposed project has components for marine fisheries,
aquaculture, agriculture, agroindustry and poverty alleviation. IDA and the
Government identified the project in 1988. The Guangdong Provincial Government
prepared the project, with assistance of Food and Agriculture
Organization/Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) missions in March 1989 and February
1990. An IDA preappraisal mission visited the project areas in June 1990 and
appraisal took place in January 1991.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.2         Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and
fisheries, provides sustenance to over 1.1 billion people; it is an important
source of income for some 190 million farm families and accounts for about 30% of
the country's GDP. Only about 137 million ha of China's land area of 960 million
ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive with heavy inputs of labor,
chemical and organic fertilizers, small machinery and water. Nearly half of the
cropped area is irrigated. Food grains occupy about 70% of the crop land and
account for about one-third of total agricultural output. This inten3ive system
of production has allowed China to meet the basic food requirements of its
population, about 22% of the world's total, and to produce an increasingly
sophisticated mix o' cash and commercial crops, from less than 11% of the world's
arable land.
1.3         China's decade-long rural reform program has revitalized the
agricultural sector through improved work incentives, decentralized decision-
making, better exploitation of comparative advantages, decontrolled agricultural
markets and prices, and technological modernization. The program has resulted in
impressive growth of income and production and a remarkable diversification in
family diets. The gross value of agricultural output (GVAO) increased by 83% in
real terms during the period of 1978-1988, at an average annual rate of 5%,
substantially more than that of the previous 25 years of 3%. While significant
growth has been achieved, the Government's central concern in recent years has
been stagnating grain production, which had peaked at 407 million t in 1984.
Production thereafter ranged between 391-402 million t for four years, reaching a
new peak in 1989 with 408 million t. Extremely good weather in 1990 resulted in
another all time high of 435 million t.
1.4         Recent government strategies to icierease grain production include
diverse measures such as increasing state investment in agriculture, mainLy in
irrigation expansion and rehabilitation, and introducing partial reforms :in grain
procurement, distribution, price and subsidies. Local governments in particular
have placed high priority on investments in uplands, natural pasture, and water



- 2 -
surfaces for expanding produreion and productivity of non-staple food and
commercial crops to meet growing demand for these commodities and increase local
entity profits and farmer incomos.
C. The Fisheries Subsector
1.5         China is the world's largest ploducer of freshwater fish and the
third largest fishing nation after the *.S.S.R. and Japan. The sector, including
culture and capture production from marine and freshwater sources, accounted for
5.3% of GVAO in 1989. Total aquatic production (inxvluding fish, shrimp,
shellfish and seaweed produced in Chinese waters and harvested by Chinese vessels
in other waters through joint ventures with other countries) increased from 5.3
million t in 1983 to 11.5 million t in 1989, an increase of 117%. The structure
of production was freshwater culture (36%), freshwater capture (6%), riarine
capture (44%) and marine culture (14%). Production data show a defi.ite trend:
increasing proportions of total production ca. be attributed to both freshwater
and marine culture and decreasing proportions to capture fisheries. The country
has become the world's largest producer of cultured shrimp, producing 32% of
world output. Between 1980 and 1989, shrimp production has grown by an average
rate of 79% per year (from 2,600 t to 190,000 t) after a breakthrough in hatchery
technology in the early 1980s and subsequent rapid expansion of cultivated area.
The product has become an important foreign exchange earner and in 1988, China
became the largest exporter of shrimp to the United States and Japan. A snecific
objective of government in the 1980s was to expand annual fisheries production to
11 million t by the year 2000; when the likelihood of achieving this level by
1990 became apparent, the target was revised upwards to 18 million t.
1.6         At the national level, the Ministry of Agriculture has two bureaus
concerned with fisheries--the Bureau of Aquatic Products (BAP) and the Bureau of
Fisheries Management (BFM). Whereas the activities of the former are targeted
toward increasing fisheries production, the latter concentrates on conservation
of the resources. The BFM and its thrce regional branches (Yellow Sea and Bohai,
East China Sea, and South China Sea) are responsible for supervision of the
execution of fishery regulations; management of fishery resources, fishing boats,
ports, and telecommunications, and protection of the fishery environment. In the
provinices, corresponding offices of fisheries management have been established
within the BAP.
1.7         Prior to 1980, the marine fisheries subsector in the country expanded
rapidly without planning and enforcement of regulatory measures. Fishermen were
urged to catch as much fish as possible without regard to population and size of
various species. The Government introduced fishing vessels haphazardly and
uncontrolled fishing activity was encouraged in order to increase production.
However, due to lack of advanced technology and the inability to raise funds, the
initial investments were directed to the construction of small and medium-sized
boats which resulted in the introduction of a large number to the coastal and
near-offshore areas along the entire coastline.
1.8         The Government decided in the mid-1980s to take measures to protect
the resources and rationalize fishing effort. The Fishery Law, which was puL.
into effect in June 1986, controls the growth of the coastal fishing fleet and
trawler operations through a licensing system and establishment of fishing zones.
The law strengthened the management scheme by establishing provincial and county
level responsibility for allocating and enforcing the Central Government's limits
on vessels, nets, fishing gear and production, in addition to adopting measures



- 3 -
to multiply fishery resources. Overall management policy includes encouraging
research and resource assessment, strict enforcement of the licensing system,
inspection of fishing vessels before they e.re put into operation, collection of
fishery resource and protection fees, protection of spawning and breeding areas,
protection of fry, limits on production, etc. Open and closed seasons are
adopted for shrimp trawling, and fishing is prohibited in spawning and nursery
grounds. The fishing areas are divided into coastal zones (depth <40 m),
offshore area (40 to 80 m depth) and deep-sea zone (80 to 200 m depth).
D. The Fruit Subsector
1,9         Fruit production area and output have shown annual increases of
approximately 11%, with land devoted to fruits now occupying 5.4 million ha--24%
of the total land used for industrial crops'. Productiov has increased from 6.6
million t in 1978 to 18.3 million t in 1989. This rapid expansion is due to the
major economic reforms which improved produce,: incentives through the production
responsibility system, decontrol of fruit marketing and prices, and encouragement
of regional specialization based on agro-ecological conditions. The policies
have aimed to both improve small farmers' incomes and living standards and to
provide consumers with a more varied and higher quality diet. Market prices for
fruit rose in the 1980s at an annual average rate of 10%, considerably faster
than the inflation rate, indicating that growing demand was not being met at
prevailing prices. Major fruit producing areas are in Shandong, Sichuan,
Guangdong and Liaoning provinces. About 25% of the area planted to fruit is
occupied by apples, 25% by citrus, 14% by bananas, and the remaining 36% by
pears, plums, longan, litchi, grapes and others. Chinese litchi production of
160,000 t accounts for 80% of world production, but only 1% of domestic fruit
production. The major producing areas are in Guangdong (77,000 t) and Guangxi
(22,000 t). Litchi is in high demand but production is small due to the limited
ecological zone where it can be grown. Total pomelo area in China is about
16,000 ha of which 8,000 ha is located in Guangdong. The other major pomelo
producing provinces are Guangxi and Sichuan. In 1989, China's total pomelo
production was about 26,000 t, of which 14,000 t was from Guangdong. When the
existing orchards reach full development, the production of pomelo is expected to
reach about 200,000 t.
E. gectoral Objectives and Bank Lending
1.10        The Government's long-term objectives for the agricultural sector are
to increase food production to meet the requirements created by population and
income growth, and raise incomes and employment opportunities in rural areas.
Given China's shortage of arable land (0.1 ha per capita), development planners
have focussed on the need to increase the productivity of presently cropped areas
and to develop efficiently the few remaining areas of unutilized land. Per
capita and total value added in the crop subsector are to be raised primarily by
increasing the yield and quality of food, feed, orchard, and industrial crops and
also by increasing the volum if agroprocessing. Although investment in
agriculture declined marked'ly during the initial reforms of 1Q80-85, it has
since rebounded at all levels due to firm national and provincial commitment to
increasing production.
' PIndustriaL* crops include fruit from orchards, cotton, oil-bearing crops, fibers, sugar cane, sugar
beet, tobacco, silk and tea.



1.11        For fisheries development, the Government's objectives are to
increase production for domest4.c consumption, provide additional income sources
for fishermen and fish farme ., and gain foreign exchaage earnings from the
export of hi'h value species. For aquaculture, the development strategy Aocusses
on utilizing land unsuitable for crop cultivation and the additional water
surfaces of reservoirs and shallow-sea areas. For capture fisheries, the
strategy emphasizes the protection of coastal resources in the shallow sea areas
and encouraging production in the depths >100 m.
1.12        For fruit development, the Government's objectives are to inerease
production for domestic consumpcion and exports, and provide additional income
for the rural population. The fruits produced under the project would be
primarily consumed in the domestic market, but certain crops would have
substantial export markets. Citrus is expected to be exported fresh to Hong
Kong, Southeast Asia, Canada and Europe. Longan and litchi are expected to be
exported in processed forms to southeast Asia and Europe. The fruit development
strategy emphasizes establishment of new orchards with high-yielding varieties
and disease-free seedlings on land unsuitable for grain cultivation. Citrus is
now being plantec predominantly on low hills with slopes normally in the range of
10 - 300 and would be more profitable than grazing livestock--the only other
alternative use for these sloping lands.
1.13        The Bank's strategy for lending to China's agricultural sector has
supported government efforts to expand and diversify agricultural production
through more efficient use of land, water, capital and labor resources and
through the improvement of support services such as credit, research and
agricultural education. Bank group lending to date has comprised 28 operations
amounting to US$3.3 million and has covered a wide spectrum of geographi_ areas
and subsectors, with overall focus on land development, irrigation and drainage
(seven projects); upgrading agricultural support services, such as research,
education, credit, and seed improvement (seven projects), strengthening
specialized product subsectors, including rubber, forestry, fruit and fisheries
(eight projects); and more recently, area development (six projects). In recent
years, the Bank group has supported a series of provincial projects in which an
area development approach has been applied. In these projects, the
responsibility for preparation and implementation of the projects and repayment
of project funds rests with provincial and lower level governments, thus
supporting the increasing delegation of development planning and implementation.
A major objective of several recent Bank projects has been to assist in the
Government's ongoing reform process. The .ural Sector Adjusrmct Loan (Credit
1932-CHA/Credit 2182-CHA), which was approved in 1988, contributed to the
articulation of the overall reform process. Several projects approved since
1989, namely National Afforestation (Credit 2145-CHA), Mid-Yangtze Agricultural
Development (Credit 2172-CHA), Fourth Rural Credit (Loan 3265-CHA/Credit 2182-
CHA), Henan Agricultural Development (Credit 2240-CHA) and Tarim Basin (Credit
2294-CHA), contain significant sub-sectoral reform elements.
1.14        Implementation of most ongoing Bank Group financed projects in the
agriculture sector is on schedule. Disbursements for agricultural projects
usually outpace those in other sectors. Notable features of all the projects are
the high standard of project management, the enthusiastic participation of
farmers and the effective collaboration of government authorities at all levels.
The North China Plain Agriculture Project (Cr. 1261-CHA) demonstrated these
feaf.ires and also achieved economic benefits (an ERR of 56%) that far exceeded
those anticipated at appraisal. The second agricultural project in China, the



Heilongjiang Land Reclamatioa Project (Cr.1347-CHA), in only five years,
succeeded in reclaiming 200,000 ha of bogs in an extremely difficult agriculturril
region (near the Siberian border) for efficient production of wheat, corn and
soybeans, while introducing modern large-scale mechanized land preparation and
harvesting to China's northeast region. The main lessons cited in the PCR were
the importance of a full-time management 3ystem for project implementation,
careful preparation of bidding documents for heavy equipment and large farm
machinery, with rigotous inspection and testing of equipment on receipt, and
during its working life, regular maintenance witht adequate supplies of spare
parts, service and repair facilities, trained operators and maintenance
tec'.nicians. The ICB procurement of a large fleet of farm and construction
equipment proved to be efficient in terms of price competitiveness and good
quality, and the use of this equipment has proven to be highlv productive for -he
large-scale land reclamation and cultivation under the constraints of a limitea
growing period and harsh weather conditions. The PCR for the first of the rural
credit project series with the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), the Rural Credit:
I Project (Cr.1462-CHA), indicates that the project was clearly successful in
production, employment, and beneficiary impact terms, as well as in starting the
commercialization process in ABC.  Lessons learned include the paramount
requirement for a competent and full-time project management organization (as in
Heilongjiang); continuous Bank monitoring of effects of currency realignments on
financial intermediary projects; flexibility in lending program allocations,
technical (including environmental) assistance and guidelines for financial
intermediaries; and coordinated and improved market information dissemination to
assist provincial or local level producers to predict shorta . or gluts of major
inputs and outputs.  The PCR also called for more emnhasis on lending for post-
harvest and marketing facilities, rather trLan focusing exclusively on productior
activities.
1.15        The Bank has been involved in the agricultural development of
Guangdong Province through the Rubber Development Project (Cr. 1417/SF 005-CHA)
and through acting as executing agency for Guangdong Integrated Fresh Water Fish
Farming Project financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD Cr. 195-CHA).  The Rubber Development Project has been r.ompleted with some
50,000 ha of rubber and 14,000 ha of windbreaks planted on State Farms in
Guangdong and Hainan.   While planting activities were carried out successfully,
the establishment and operation of the associated timber compiexes, in
retrospect, was an overly ambitious undertaking; placing former agricultural
managers in large-scale, technically sophisticated industrial complexes has
resulted in prolonged start-up periods, low qurlity output and reduced profits.
Thus, the present project has emphasized the role of management and the selection
of technology appropriate to the availability of technical and managerial skills.
IFAD's project, a relatively simple fish pond development project, is being
carried out successfully; still, modifications in pond design have been
introduced in the proposed project to expand the potential for development of
aquaculture.
F. Guangdong Province
1.16        Guangdong entered a period of rapid economic growth after the
economic reforms commenced in 1978, with light industry providing the thrast.
The establishment of three of China's four Special Economic Zones (SEZs) in the
province (Shenzhen, Zhuhai and Shantou) and its proximity to the financial and
trading center of Hong Kong has facilitated major foreign capital inflows and
helped Guangdong displace Shanghai as China's leading exporter. The province has



- 6 -
a population of about 60.3 million (1989), of whom 46 million (77% of total) are
engaged in agriculture and fisheries. It is divided administratively into 19
municipalities and the city of Guangzhou, the provincial capital. In 1989, the
provincial income was estimated at Y89.5 billion and average per capita income at
just under Y1,500. Meanwhile, the provincial GVAO was Y54.9 billion with per
capita rural incomes of Y955. Guangdong can be considered as the leading edge of
what has been China's successful coastal development policy.
1.17        Rapid economic development has also been a characteristic of the
rural sector, with rural incomes now averaging about 58% above the national
average. However, the benefits of economic development have not been evenly
spread through the province. In particular, farmers in the mountainous areas in
the northeast continue to be poor and annual incomes for an estimated 10% of the
rural population still remain around Y300, substantially below the provincial and
national averages.
1.18        The total land area is about 212,000 km2, of which 33% is moun-
tainous, 25% is hilly, 19% tableland and 23% is plain. The province's 2.53
million ha of farmland is intensively cropped--total cropped area in 1989 was
5.55 million ha. About 70% of the cropped land is planted with grains, mainly
rice. Major cash crops grown include sugarcane, fruit, peanuts, hemp, tobacco,
tea, rubber, coffee and sisal. Particularly important are sugarcane, which
accounts for 5% of the province's total sown area (28% of the nation's total
sugarcane areas) and fruit, which accounts for another 12%. The province has
yet to fully utilize its available land resources; it is estimated that 670,000
ha of unutilized lands are yet to be developed, including 150,000 ha of hilly
land with slopes of less than 25% (potentially suitable for growing tree crops).
1.19        In 1989, the province produced a total of 18 million t of grain, of
which 16 million t was rice. Sugarcane production in 1989 was about 17 million
t, accounting for about 35% of China's production. Guangdong ranks first in the
nation in fruit production with 2.8 million t (17% of national fruit production),
of which, 1.1 million t of citrus and 1.1 million t of bananas account for 43%
and 56%, respectively, of China's total production. For other fruits, 14,000 t
of pomelo, 27,000 t of longan and 77,000 t of litchi were produced which accounts
for less than 0.5%, 1% and 3% of the Province's total fruit production. The
total area planted to fruit in 1989 was about 639,000 ha. The major longan,
pomelo and litchi producing areas are Guangdong, Guangxi and Sichuan provinces
and Guangdong's production accounts for about a half of the nation's total
output.
1.20        Total fisheries output in 1989 was 1.9 million t, of which 53% came
from marine capture (making the province the highest producer in the nation), 38%
from fresh water culture, 6% from marine culture and the remaining 3% from fresh
water capture. The province, facing the Northern Continental Shelf of the South
China Sea, has a coastline (including that of the Xisha, Zhongsha, Tongsha and
Nansha Islands) of about 5,066 km; the continental shelf area along the coast is
around 374,000 km2. Outside the shelf is the continental slope which extends to
form the South China Sea Basin. In most of these areas, the sea bottom is flat
and sandy, particularly suitable for trawling--and the waters are rich in
nutrients supporting growth of fish, shellfish and marine algae. Of the 1,200
fish species living in the Northern Continental Shelf and around the coral reef
islands, about 120 are economically important.   With the introduction of
economic reforms, the number of powered fishing vessels has increased rapidly
since 1978; there are now more than 47,000 motorized vessels, but about 75% are



- 7 -
equipped with less than 20 hp and are limited in range to nearby coastal waters
at depths less than 100 m.
1.21        Guangdong's Eighth Five Year Plan (1991-95) reiterates continuation
of reforms and opening to the outside world with emphasis on price reform, market
development and industrial restructuring. The province aims to continue to
position itself as a forerunner of export-oriented economy with little or no
control on prices and the market mechanism. In addition to development of the
Pearl River Delta area, additional efforts would be made to develop interior
regions, particularly the mountainous areas where relative poverty is still
prevalent.
G. Proiect Formulation and Rationale
1.22        As part of the Government's efforts toward decenttralization, this
project has been planned and would be implemented by the provincial, municipal
and county governments. The proposed project is comprised of components which
address several constraints to productivity in each subsector: replacement of
outdated, limited range fishing vessels to increase volume of catches, while
shifting fishing effort from the overexploited shallow coastal waters to the
relatively underexploited deeper offshore areas; land reclamation with the multi-
purposes of expanding agricultural area, improving navigation and increasing
drainage capacity; fruit tree expansion and rehabilitation, taking advantage of
the province's sub-tropical climate, to increase production, meanwhile utilizing
hilly land with limited alternative use; introducing erosion control measures to
reduce siltation in the delta's network of estuaries, and generating additional
incomes for farmers in mountainous areas where per capita income has been below
the provincial average. IDA's contribution, in addition to overall project design
and finance, has been to establish the adequacy of offshore marine resources and
to make recommendations for improvement of fishing vessel design and fishing
gear, fishery resource management, environmental impact, seadike safety and
international marketing strategies.
II. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. Location
2.1         The proposed project would be carried out in 13 municipalities,
extending from the Leizhou Peninsula in the southern extremity of the province to
Shantou near the Fujian border. Project locations are shown on IBRD Map 22926
and activities in the participating municipalities are summarized in Table 2.1.
2.2         Eight coastal cities, sprerd over a distance of 1,500 km, have been
selected to participate in the marine fisheries component on the basis of the
following criteria: proximity to good fishing grounds and markets, progressive
attitude of fishermen's communities, and availability of service facilities and
other essential infrastructure. These eight cities are the operating bases for
85% of the province's current register of motorized fishing vessels and accounted
for 78% of total marine capture.   Five of the same coastal cities and an
additional inland city would be sites for the aquaculture component. The
selected areas have generally satisfactory physical and biological conditions for
raising marine, brackish and freshwater species, a long tradition in aquaculture
production, and underemployed labor forces. The agricultural component would be
located in three municipalities and Guangzhou City. All areas selected have



suitable climate, easy access to markets, and a tradition of cultivation of the
respective crops--litchi, longan, pomelo or sugarcane. Most of the agroindustry
components would be based in Shenzhen, a SEZ near Hong Kong which has become a
major production and trading center for domestic and export goods, and in
Guangzhou, near the production area. Qingyuan municipality has been identified
as the focus of a poverty alleviation component because five of its counties,
located in the limestone mountain area, have been designated as official poverty
areas.
Table 2.1 Project Activities
Municipality            Project Activities
Coastal cities
Huizhou           Marine fisheries, cage culture
Jiangmen          Marine fisheries, brackish water ponds
Maoming           Marine fisheries, litchi, longan
Shantou           Marine fisheries, cage culture, freshwater ponds
Shanwei           Marine fisheries, shrimp, oysters
Shenzhen          Agroindustry
Yangjiang         Marine fisheries
Zhanjiang         Marine fisheries
Zhuhai            Marine fisheries, cage culture, brackish water ponds, sugar cane
w/land reclamation, agroindustry
Inland cities
Guangzhou         Sugar cane w/land reclamation, litchi, agroindustrv
Meizhou           Pomelo, longan
Gingyuan          Poverty alleviation
Zhaoqing          Freshwater fishponds
B.  Climate
2.3         The project areas are located between 20 and 250 N. latitude.  The
climate is tropical in coastal areas in the south becoming subtropical further
inland to the north. Occasional cold waves are experienced in January or
February with some mild frost. However, the average frost free period exceeds
300 days and many southern areas are completely frost free. Average daily
temperatures range from about 160C in January to 330C in July. The province is
subject to two monsoons,the southwest monsoon from April to October and the
northeast monsoon from November to March. Annual rainfall averages between 1500-
1800 mm, with most of it occurring between April and September. Typhoons occur
fairly regularly in the province and wind speeds can reach up to 37 m/sec.
Typhoons can cause extensive damage, especially in coastal areas, with the storms
generally weakening as they move inland. A more important risk for the inland
areas is the occurrence of late or uneven rains and drought.
C. The Pearl River Delta
2.4         Three rivers, the Xijiang, Beijiang and Dongjiang, drain the uplands
of central Guangdong and converge to build up the alluvial plains of the Pearl
River Delta. The delta is essentially a filled-in bay, which was itself the
result of subsidence of recent occurrence. Isolated hills of ancient rocks,
formerly islands in the bay, rise sharply out of the alluvium. At Sanshui, the
Xijiang unites with the Beijiang and sends off a branch to the east to form the
main channel of the delta, the Pearl River, while Xijiang itself swings toward
the south to discharge into the sea at Modaomen. The lower course of the Pearl



-9 -
River also runs southward entering the sea in a broad estuary. Between these two
main channels lies the main deltaic plain, about 100 km long and 40 km wide,
intersected by numerous interlaced waterways. The Dongjiang, which drains most
of eastern Guangdong, forms a subordinate but large delta of its own on the
eastern side of the Pearl River estuary. The delta is rich in surface water
resources on account of the copious rainfall of the region (about 1,800 mm
annually) and the large volume of annual runoff from the 430,000 km2 of drainage
basin of the Xijiang, which rises on the high tablelands of Yunnan and Guizhou
and traverses the length of Guangxi before reaching Guangdong. The annual runoff
volume to the sea via the eight principal outlets at the delta amounts to 326
billion m3--these outlets are, from east to west, Humen, Jiaomen, Hongqimen,
Hengmen, Modaomen, Jitimen, Hutiaomen, and Yanan. Discharges are high during the
period April through September when the sea water is pushed out and the salinity
near the coast is low (0 to 6 parts per thousand). At ebb tide, fresh water,
discharged from upstream, is diverted from the numerous waterways for irrigation
and domestic purposes.
2.5         Sedimentation, largely contributed by the Xijiang, has been a
continuous process. Of the 83 million t of annual sediment load discharged into
the sea by the Pearl River system, the Xijiang accounts for about 87%. The
build-up of tidal lands at the estuaries is rapid. At Modaomen, the delta is
extending at the rate of 120-150 m per year. The soils of the tidal flats are
potentially fertile though a trifle saline; once protected from flooding and
provided with drainage, they are immediately suitable for a variety of crops,
notably sugar cane and rice, as well as for aquaculture. Sedimentation and
extension of the foreland of the delta has caused blockages at the river outlets,
siltation of river channels, obstruction to navigation, impedance to drainage of
low-lying areas, and higher flood levels. Like other coastal areas of Guangdong,
the delta is annually hit by typhoons which are most active from July through
September. Storm surge, the piling-up of sea water that occurs during a typhoon,
produces a hazardous condition. Damage to crops and property by sea floods
caused by storm surges is a major concern in the development of the delta area,
and thus IDA has carefully considered the safety of the seadikes in the proposed
project areas.
2.6         Among the early reclamation activities was the construction in 1835
of an embankment between the outlets of Jiaomen and Hongqimen in coastal Panyu
County. From 1835 to 1949, about 9,300 ha of tidal lands were reclaimed in
Panyu. Reclamation also took place elsewhere in the delta and the coastal areas
and continues today. Since the early 1980s, larger scale reclamation works have
been undertaken, and recent activities include the reclamation of large tracts of
tidal lands totalling 24,900 ha at the outlets of Jiaomen (13,300 ha), Modaomen
(7,100 ha) and Yamen (3,400 ha), and two coastal locations (1,100 ha) in Zhuhai
municipality. The reclamation at Jiaomen and Modaomen, two important estuaries
of the Pearl River system, is being undertaken with technical guidance of the
Pearl River Water Resources Commission, which has assisted in the planning and
engineering design of the reclamation works. A major concern of the planning
work has been and continues to be the location and alignment of the embankments
enclosing the reclaimed tidal lands with a view to maintaining the outlets as
efficient hydraulic channels.
D. Topography and Soils
2.7         Fruit crops under the proposed project would be located in hilly and
mcountainous terrain where they would be grown mainly on the lower hills on slopes



- 10 -
up to about 30°. In the fruit growing areas, most of these sloping lands have
reddish-brown lateritic soil with an average soil depth of about 80 cm.   These
soils are generally acidic with pHs ranging from 4.5 to 6.5; they are low in
organic matter, nitrogen and available phosphorous and low to medium in available
notassium content. The soils in the mountainous limestone area in Qingyuan are
red and purple clay loams rich in calcium with an average organic matter content
of 2.5% and pH 7 to 8. Soils of the tidal flats in the land reclamation areas of
Jiaomen and Modaomen are predominantly silty clays and clay loams. These soils
are moderately alkaline (pH 7.5 -8) and low in nitrogen, but contain about 3%
organic matter. They are also moderately saline (0.2 -0.7%), with Modaomen soils
being rather more saline and less fertile than those of Panyu. However, with
protection from flooding and adequate drainage, both areas are suitable for a
variety of crops, notably sugar cane and rice.
E. Present Agricultural Development.
2.8         Fruit Orchards - There are about 23,000 ha of litchi, 7,000 ha of
longan and 9,000 ha of pomelo in the project area, where there is a long
tradition of fruit growing. These orchards are managed by small farmers with
individual fruit tree holdings of 0.14-1.0 ha. At present only 20-30% of the
planted area is bearing fruit, the major part having only been established since
1985, as part of a province-wide expansion in fruit growing. Older established
orchards were planted near the homestead on near level or gently sloping land,
while recent plantings have moved progressively up to slopes of 300. Contour
terracing is recommended on these steeper slopes, but in many cases farmers have
not begun to do this work until well after planting. Fruit Development Companies
(FDCs) are established in all three municipalities at county and township level
where they have established nurseries which supply adequate quantities of good
quality grafted seedlings (the average planting density is 450/ha). However,
many recently planted orchards are growing poorly because of inadequate inputs
and poor standards of management. As a consequence, young seedlings develop very
slowly and trees in production often only bear fruit in alternate years. Farmers
apply organic manure and chemical fertilizers, but much of the latter is low
grade local product. Furthermore, recommended fertilizer rates are based on past
practice, and research on the economics of fertilizer use is lacking. Present
yield levels are only 3.5 to 4t/ha for longan and litchi and about 9 t/ha for
pomelo. In other areas of fruit crop research, considerable advances have been
made in production technology including promising work in biological pest control
and integrated pest management. However, this technology is not being promoted
at the farm level because of inadequate extension and training.
2.9         Sugar cane - Reclaimed land in the Panyu and Modaomen project areas
is contracted to farm households for sugar cane production at an average of 1
ha/family. Cane is planted in January and harvested in December. Ratooning is
not normally practiced, and a new crop is planted every year. This somewhat
unusual practice is favored because it enables consistently high yields and
minimizes soilborne pests and diseases. The high labor demand for planting is
not a problem because of an influx of farm labor coming from Sichuan and adjacent
northern provinces to seek work during the winter. In the reclaimed areas to be
completed under the project, sufficient funds have not been evailable to
adequately provide the dikes, drains and other infrastructure and to complete
land filling and levelling. Some of these partially reclaimed areas are not
cropped, but where sugar cane is grown it is subject to typhoon damage, and poor
drainage makes it difficult to reduce soil salinity with resultant low yields.
In adjacent reclaimed areas which have been fully developed, sugar cane yields



- 11 -
are among the highest in China averaging 120 t/ha of cane with an average sugar
content of 12%. In addition to growing cane, intercropping with vegetables is
becoming increasingly popular. A wide variety of crops are grown including head
cabbage, chili peppers, tomatoes, beans, and various cucurbits. Seed is sown in
nurseries under plastic sheeting in November/December and transplanted in
January/February. Harvesting takes place in April/May.
2.10        Research - The major research centers for fruit and sugar cane are
the Fruit Research Institute of the Guangdong Provincial Academy of Agricultural
Sciences and the Sugar Division of the Industrial Crops Research Institute (ICRI)
in Guangzhou, both of which are affiliates of the national Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences (CAAS). These major institutes are engaged in breeding
programs, varietal screening and advances in production technology, including
integrated pest management where considerable progress is being made in the
biological control of fruit and sugar cane pests. The provincial Fruit Research
Institute conducts field trials on litchi and longan in cooperation with the FDCs
in the project area. Research on pomelo is carried out at the Meizhou
Agricultural Research Institute. Other institutions working in fruit research
include the Guangzhou City Fruit Research Institute and the horticulture division
of the South China Agricultural University.   The sugar division of ICRI operates
research sub-stations in Panyu County and Zhuhai City (Modaomen). Most of these
research centers have limited operational budgets which is a serious constraint
particularly for evaluation work under field conditions and for the dissemination
of new technology.
2.11        Extension - The Provincial Bureau of Agriculture has delegated
responsibility for extension serving fruit and sugar cane farmers in the project
area to the FDCs and the reclamation corporations operating in these areas.
These agencies have their own technical extension staff at municipal, county and
township level and employ part-time farmer-technicians at the village level.
Present extension efforts are hindered by a lack of facilities, insufficient
training and a shortage of equipment and transport.
F. Present Fisheries Development
2.12        Management - The Bureau of Aquatic Product's Division of Fishery
Management (DFM) was established in 1979 for the enforcement of fishery
regulations. In 11 years, this division has expanded from a staff of about 12,
using rented fishing boats for their operations, to the present staff of more
than 600 full-time and another 400 part-time employees, with 40 patrol boats and
60 speed boats. In addition to enforcement of fishery regulations, issuance of
fishing permits, and boat licensing and inspection, this agency is also in charge
of resource monitoring and protection. It keeps track of catch statistics,
conducts artificial stocking of economic species, and monitors status of various
fishery resources. It contracts a number of fishing boats to gather data for
analysis of the dynamics of populations and communities of fishery resources.
2.13        Closely related to provincial fishery activities, the South China
Seas Fishery Research Institute (SCSFRI), under the administrative jurisdiction
of the MOA and administered by the Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences, has its
headquarters in Guangzhou and branches throughout Guangdong and Hainan provinces.
The institute is funded 75% by the central government and 25% through their own
contract work. The institute has eight research departments in Guangzhou and six
experimental stations throughout the coastal areas. In addition to marine
resources, studies are carried out on processing, feeds and nutrition, fishing



- 12 -
technology, and environmental protection. The institute has three research
vessels, the largest of which is the Nan Feng 704, a 2,400 hp, 845 t stern
trawler (to depths of 1300 m); however, the vessel is not equipped with
hydroacoustic technology to accurately assess mid-water and pelagic resources.
2.14        Fishing Vessels - Vessels operating in the offshore and deep sea are
trawlers and purse seiners. Most trawlers are made of wood imported from South
Asian countries. They carry out both single boat stern trawling and pair
trawling. Specifications gewi-rally range from a overall length of 20-32 m, with
beams from 4.8-6.2 m, and main engines of 200-850 hp. They carry ice to stay at
sea from seven to ten days with a crew of 10-12 men. They usually make three or
four hauls every day ranging from 0.5-1 t per haul; with 20-30 trips per year,
each vessel's annual catch ranges from 150 t to 600 t depending on size and
horsepower. Purse seiners do not operate power blocks; the vessels vary from 20-
39 m in length and carry crews of 15-28 men. Their trips range from two to four
days. A large number of these boats are old and operate at about 40% of their
capacity due to major hull and engine deficiencies.
2.15        In general, the vessels have a closed upper deck, with forward or aft
wheel houses and accommodations, insulated fish holds integrated in the hull
design, fuel and water tanks, and hydraulic winches forward of the deck house.
Older boats generally do not have shelving in the fish holds, and as a result the
bottom layer of fish is damaged by the weight of ice and fish. Offshore and deep
sea vessels are equipped with radio transmitters and navigational equipment,
including steering compasses, direction finders, satellite navigation, radar and
fish finders (vertical and horizontal scanners). Some have twin engines with
twin propellers, while others have single engines with fixed propulsion nozzles
and a single propeller. Trawlers usually carry three sets of trawl gear and
seiners, two seine nets. Construction of both wooden and steel vessels is of a
reasonably good standard and conforms to good ship building practices. All
vessels are designed and constructed under the supervision of the Registrar of
Shipping of the PRC or their provincial affiliates (in Guangdong, the Ship Survey
Authority).
2.16        Boat building is a long established tradition.  The hull shape dates
back centuries and construction of wooden vessels is based on frames of naturally
curved timber, while the planks, keel, stern, etc. are of imported hard wood.
Adequate boat building capacity (110 boat-building and repair yards) is available
in the province, but the construction rate is largely influenced by occasional
shortages of materials. Steel hull vessels up to 10,000 gross tonnage are
constructed in the province. Boat yards are basically well laid out, but due to
past recession and poor maintenance, some have become rundown.
2.17        Fisheries Facilities - Along the coast of the province there are 180
fish landing sites, of which 20 are classified as major fishing ports with
adequate protection and service facilities. Around 1 million full and part-time
fishermen operate from these bases. Cold storage capacity for both marine and
freshwater fisheries is estimated at 32,000 t and freezing capacity is some 1,600
t/day, capable of handling over 350,000 t per year. Ice production is estimated
at 4,300 t/day; however, many of these facilities are old and the design and
technology are outdated, leading to ^ostly operation and poor product quality.
Ice supply is inadequate and often larger boats carry less ice than actually
needed to keep fish in good condition.



- 13 -
2.18        Resources - Chinese fisheries experts believe that fisheries
resources in waters less than 100 m deep have been overexploited, but that the
zone deeper than 100 m has been underutilized. At IDA's request, the provincial
government contracted with SCSFRI to carry out a survey of the continental shelf
and slope between 110 and 120°E; on the basis of this survey, SCSFRI estimated
that the total biomass for the near-bottim component of fisheries resources in
the survey area was 162,000 t with an annual potential yield of about 130,000 t.
Review of the data and the analysis by an IDA consultant led IDA to conclude that
the total potential yield accessible to the project vessels is around 66,000 t.
This estimate, while considerably lower than originally perceived, is still high
enough to satisfy the needs of the project. (A summary of the consultant's
report is in Annex 2 and the complete document is in the Project File).
G. Poverty Area
2.19        Qingyuan municipality, located in the north of the province, covers
an area of 19,000 sq km and has a total population of 3.3 million. The
municipality was established in 1988, with administrative jurisdiction over two
districts and six counties (two of which are "minority"2 counties).  While
Qingyuan city proper is only about 70 km from Guangzhou, the farther reaches of
the counties extend about 250 km from the city.   More than half the province's
ethnic minorities live in Qingyuan, mainly in the higher elevations of the
limestone mountains. Some 33 villages in the limestone mountain area fall under
the State Council definition of poverty - annual per capita incomes less than
Y200. The total population of these villages is about 645,000 and about one-
quarter of them face overwhelming difficulties in securing adequate supplies of
food and drinking water. Cultivable land is scarce (0.06 ha/capita) and yields
are low. The provincial government annually supplies over 6,000 t of grain
(mostly corn) to the poverty villages and offers Yl,000 per family if they are
willing to relocate. The provincial government has sought IDA assistance in
addressing the alleviation of poverty in this isolated pocket of Guangdong
province.
H. Institutional Credit
2.20        Institutional credit for agriculture is offered mainly by the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) and the People's Construction Bank of China
(PCBC), particularly for agroindustries. ABC operates in Guangdong through its
provincial branch in Guangzhou, supported by a w'de network of more than 3000
offices in municipalities, counties and townships. The county and township
offices are the basic operational units of the bank through which deposits and
loans are handled. Total staff are estimated at 29,000, including 24,000
professionals. Rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) in Guangdong have an extensive
network of offices and part-time substations in the rural areas, where other
major financial institutions have found it unattractive to set up business.
Although RCCs are nominally independent economic entities, collectively owned and
managed by their local members, they continue to be managed virtually as an
extension of the ABC bureaucracy. RCCs have a total of more than 4,000 offices
and 38,000 staff. PCBC also has an extensive network of branches throughout the
province and a total staff of about 13,000.
1Lianshan Zhuang and Yao Nationality Autonomous County and LLzinan Yao Minority National Autonomous
County, with a combined population of about 238,000, of which half are minority nationalities.



14 -
I. Transportation
2.21        The Bank Group has been closely involved in the transport sector of
Guangdong and has identified constraints to economic growth of the province in
its Guangdong Province Comprehensive Transport Study (Report No. 7708-CHA). The
study focused on delineating the nature of the future transport system which
would best serve the province's economic requirements and on identifying some of
the measures needed to achieve such a system. Given that the fastest growing
segments of the economy are light industries, which are typically prepared to pay
premium prices for the speed and flexibility of road transport, highways would be
expected to play an increasingly large role in the future. A transport project
is being prepared for possible Bank financing. The fruit development areas
(Meizhou and Maoming) are both linked to Guangzhou by rail and the 3eijing-
Guangzhou railroad has beer recently upgraded to an annual capacity of 30 million
t in each direction. Numerous collective and privately-owned transpirt
enterprises provide road freight shipping services suited to the needs of light
industry.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Relation to Sector
3.1         The objectives of the project are to (1) increase fish production
beyond the 100 m depth of the Northern Continental Shelf of the South China Sea,
meanwhile relieving pressure on near-coastal resources, (2) develop land
unsuitable for agriculture, coastal mud flats and shallow water areas for
aquaculture, (3) increase production of fruits on sloping land, (4) bring new
land into agricultural production and improve river flow conditions in the Pearl
River delta, (5) provide modern agroindustrial facilities for handling and
processing, and (6) formulate and implement a poverty alleviation package
focussed on the limestone mountain areas of the province.
B. Project Description
3.2         The proposed project has the following components:
Marine caRture fisheries - provision of 86 fishing vessels (66 steel
trawlers, 14 refrigerated steel trawlers, and 6 wooden purse seiners) and
support facilities, including five cold stores/ice plants and one wharf;
Aquaculture - construction of 2,538 ha of brackish water fish ponds, 734 ha
of freshwater fish ponds, 330 ha of shrimp ponds, 440 ha of oyster
cultivation area, 11,000 net cages for marine and freshwater fish culture
and support facilities, including three feed mills, and two hatcheries;
AgrJAicuLtre - improvement of 10,700 ha of recently planted litchi, longan,
and pomelo orchards and establishment of 3,282 ha of new litchi and longan
orchards on uncultivated sloping land; land reclamation works, including
seadikes, land levelling, drainage and related infrastructure for the
improvement/expansion of 6,446 ha of sugar cane;
aercndus2try - establishment/expansion of facilities to produce frozen
fruits and vegetables (2), canned fish, yoghurt drink, fruit juice, candied
fruit and jam, dried fruit and fruit pulp, instant noodlAs, health foods,
feed additives, and rosin derivatives; and



- 15 -
Limestone mountain Poverty component - support for planning studies and
research, upgrading of rural infrastructure (access roads and village water
supplies), and provision of development loans to households, groups of
households and municipal and lower level enterprises for agriculture and
industries.
3.3         The project would also provide vehicles and equipment, overseas
training and study tours, domestic training, technical services, and working
capital for production and processing activities.
C. Detailed Features
Marine Fisheries
3.4         The new vessels, with improved design and equipment (Table 3.1),
would allow fishing further off-shore in relatively unexploited waters, improved
fish handling and preservation on board, increased operating efficiency and
extended fishing time. The predominance of steel vessels in the project reflects
the government's efforts to change from the traditional wood3n vessels in the
face of limited supplies of quality ship building timber, the limited life span
of wooden vessels, and the greater seaworthiness and safety of steel vessels,
especially in adverse conditions. The project would help to relieve pressure on
coastal fisheries by replacing a number of old vessels which are currently
limited in their range and capacity. The province plans to retire over the next
five years (by non-renewal of licenses) some 600 vessels which are beyond their
economic life and whose range is limited to near coastal waters. The Bureau of
Aquatic Products (BAP) would endeavor to employ the displaced crews on the new
boats and in other related fisheries activities (Annex 2). Assurances were
obtained that. under arrangements satisfactory to IDA. Guangdong would implement
the vessel retirement Rlan and provide employment for the displaced crews.
Table 3.1 Design Characteristics of Fishing Vessels
Steel      Wooden Purse       Steel
travlera      soiners    Refrig. travlers
(66)         (6)              (14)
Length                  33.8 m       28.5 m             44.8 m
Beam                     6.8 X       5.8 m               7.6 m
Depth                    3.7im       2.85 m              40im
Displacement            353 t        179 t               500 t
Engines                  620 hp      412 hp            1,000 hp
Ice/fish hold capacity  160 m3        83 m3              210 m3
Fuel tank                50t          15t                 73 t
Freshwater tank          24 t         20 t                52 t
Crew                      14          22                  16
Average trip length      1 days       5 days            20 days
3.5         The steel hull trawler is designed with a single deck and would
engage in pair trawling. Propellers would be fitted with nozzles to provide
extra thrust during trawling. Fuel and fresh water tanks would be integrally
constructed with the hull, allowing greater hold space than would be possible in
a wooden vessel of the same size. Two sets of diesel engines (40 kw, 80 hp)
would be provided as generators. A hydraulic net winch (5 t capacity) and
hydraulic steering gear would be in.italled. Three different types of nets would
be included with each vessel, and two sets of booster compressors (16.28 kw)
would be provided to lower the temperature of the fish hold to -2°C and prolong
ice storage. Navigation and fishing equipment would include radar (black and



. 16 -
white), single side band radio (SSB), Loran position finder, VHF radio, magnetic
compass, global positioning system (GPS) and fish finder. A glossary of
definitions for navigation and fishing equipment is given in Anne&_J.
3.6         The steel hull refrigerated trawler is designed to a higher technical
level, capable of a longer time at sea and with more advanced refrigeration
equipment. Design capacity for oil and freshwater supplies would be 30 days.
The vessel would be a single deck stern trawler with two auxiliary diesel engines
(189 hp, 90 kw), using a balanced rudder steering gear system with emergency
back-up. It would be equipped with a hydraulic net winch. Refrigeration
equipment would include two sets of plate freezers (each with a capacity of 1.2
t/4-5 hrs) for quick freezing. Freezing temperature in fish hold would reach in
t;ie range of -20 to -250C.   Navigation equipment would include, in addition to
that shown for the steel trawler, an additional SSB as a backup, and a GPS.
3.7         The wooden purse seiners would be similar to the traditional vessels
operated in Guangdong's coastal fisheries, but the project boats would be
suitable for fishing in the range of 40-%O m depths. The main engine would be
412 hp with turbo-charger and a 48 hp auxiliary engine would be provided.
Refrigeration facilities would include an evaporator and compressnr. Each boat
would be provided with two light boats and equipped with navigation equipment
similar to the pair trc:ler (except that either a fish finder or sonar would be
provided). Power blocks would be an option on purse seiners to decrease net
hauling times and increase the number of sets per day.
3.8         All vessels would be equipped with fire-fighting and life-saving
equipment as required by national safety regulations. None are provided with
processing (gutting, filleting) facilities, but the steel refrigerated trawlers
would be a first step in this direction; on these boats, fish would be sorted and
packed in trays for on-board freezing.
3.9         Resource Monitoring Program and Fisheries Management Plan - The
Guangdong BAP would strengthen the existing monitoring program by expanding the
present logbook systems for monitoring of catch and introducing annual resource
surveys, to be carried out by the South China Seas Fishery Research Institute
(SCSFRI), between 60-500 m. After equipping its main research vessel, the Nan
Feng 704, with hydroacoustic gear (financed through the Association's Technical
Cooperation Credit or other means), the SCSFRI would be capable of more
scientific assessment of both demersal (near sea bottom) and pelagic (near
surface) stocks. Based on the data obtained through the atanual surveys, resource
assessments and logbook program, the Guangdong Bureau of Aquatic Products (GBAP)
would develop a fisheries management plan (FMP). An initial step in the
preparation of the FMP would be a stock assessment and fishery evaluation report,
which summarizes the best biological, social and economic information concerning
the past, present, and potential condition of the stock and fishery being
managed. Based on the stock assessment, a measurable definition of overfishing
can be determined and management measures necessary to prevent overfishing can be
enacted (Annex 2). The project would include funds for technical assistance for
this purpose. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that (a) an annual
survey would be carried out using hydroacoustic gear. and the survey results
would be used to prepare a fisheries resource assessment by December 31. 1992 and
in updating such resource assessment annually-thereafter: (b) on the basis of the
survey. resource assessment. and log book monitoring Rrogram. a FMP.-including a
measurable definition of overfishing. would be prepared and furnished to IDA by
June 30. 1993 for_review and comment and implemented thereafter. taking acuntcg



- 17 -
of IDA's comtments: and (c) phasing of procurement. after the_first procurement of
46 vesse1s, would be contingent on IDA's pripr aenroval. on the basis of the
resource assessments and the oroven ft:nancial viability of previously procured
vessels already in operation.
3.10        The project also includes provision of a landing quay at the Shantou
fishing harbor. The quay would comprise a 100 m long and 10 m wide two-way
approach road bridge leading out to water depths of about 3m and a jetty head of
80 m by 15 m.  The structure would be of reinforced concrete construction, the
deck being composed of pre-cast con'!rete elements which would be supported on
pre-cast concrete piles. The project also provides for vehicles and buildings
for the municipal BAPs and working capital to cover operating costs for one month
for each fishing vessel and for three months operation for ice plant/cold stores.
Municipal level rev,olving funds would be established for first year working
capital provided by the project; these funds would be recirculated for subsequent
lots of vessels.
3.11        To improve on-shore fish handling and increase freezing and storage
efficiency, three new cold stores would be constructed and two existing plants
would be impr'ved by the addition of quick-freezing capacity. The new facilities
would have block ice plant capacity ranging from 10 to 30 t/day, ice storage
capacity from 70 to 250 t, quick freezing capacity from 4 to 10 t/day and 120 to
200 t storage capacity. All buildings would use metal-faced polystyrene or
polyurethane panels for insulation. Design features are for air blast freezers,
to reduce the temperature of chilled fish to about -30°C, and cold storage,
consisting of insulated rooms at -25°C with ancillary refrigeration equipment,
including a hot gas defrosc system and air curtains. Additional equipment would
include ice conveyors, lifts, crushers, chutes, freezing racks and trays, and
palletized fish containers.
Aguaculture
3.12        This component takes advantage of the province's favorable climate,
ample freshwater resources and good clay soils and the considerable experience,
both institutionally and of farmers, in culture fisheries. The marine capture
industry provides large amounts of trash fish, which can be used for cultivation
of carnivorous species in cages and ponds. The project would seek to overcome
several key constraints: possible typhoon damage to ponds would be reduced by
strengthening and raising the height of seadikes, and technical assistance and
training would address artificial breeding of marine species and marketing
strategies. Except for the fresh water fish culture sites at Zhaoqing and
Chaoyang, all sites for aquaculture were reclaimed or are being reclaimed from
tidal lands and sea dikes are already in place, except for Xiazha, where
reclamation work is still on-going.



- 18 -
Table 3.2 Distribution of Aquaculture Subprojects /1
Cages      Shrimp   Ponds    Oyster Support
Location   Marine   FW   Ponds  BW   PW   Beds  Facilities
(no.)            - (ha )-------------
Huizhou     4,200
Jiangmen                                         Hatch,Flmiil
Fenghoujia                    528
Xinhui                        528
Shantou     1,500  3,000             400         Feed Mi11
Shanwei                 330               440   Hatoh,Fmil.1
2haoqing                             334
Zhuhai      2,300
Xiazha                        528
Qiao                         150
Le ihou                       480
Moda3men                     330
Totals      8,000  3,000  330   2,544  734   440
/1   FW - freshwater, BW - brackish vater
3.13        Brackish water fish ponds - The six subproject sites are situated at
or close to the main outlets of the Pearl River Delta. About 2,538 ha of
brackish water fish ponds would be constructed on the low-lying portion of the
reclaimed lands less suitable for crop development. Dikes already constructed at
the project sites are generally above high tide levels but are not high enough to
prevent overtopping caused by storm Purges during severe typhoons. Approximately
43.2 km of existing dike3 would be strengthened and 2.8 km of new dikes would be
constructed. Design height would be sufficient to prevent overtopping by the
highest recorded tidal level superimposed by the wave run-up that would occur for
the design typhoon intensity, and a 0.5 m freeboard wovld be provided.  Typical
farm layouts provide for one ha production ponds (about 143 m x 70 m), associated
with 0.2 ha nursery ponds (about 70 m x 29 m).  Pond water depth would be 2 m
with 0.5 m freeboard.  Embankments would be built with a side slope of 1 vertical
to 1.8-2 horizontal and with a top width of 3-7 m. Design capacity of the water
supply and drainage systems would permit a daily water change of up to 10% of the
total volume of pond water and evacuation within two days of a 24-hr storm with a
return period of 10 years.  To a large extent, w&ter supply and drainage would be
carried out by gravity, taking advantage of the tidal difference.  This could be
achieved at four sites, and at the other two sites, Fenghuojia and Yanan, pumping
would be necessary on the days when the high water level is below the pond full
supply level.  As pond bottoms are generally lower than the average low water
level, mobile submersible pumps would be used to drain the ponds for annual
cleaning or during an emergency. In addition, the project would include five
small 60-t cold stores for temporary storage of trash fish (used for feed).
3.14        Marine cages - About 8,000 cages would be constructed for culture of
marine fish in Huizhou, Shantou and Zhuhai. Net cages, with dimensions of 3m x
3m x 3m, would be suspended from wooden rafts on styrofoam floats in clusters of
nine. At the bottom of each cage, a 3m x 3m square of galvanized pipe (3/4"
diameter) would be placed as a weight to hold the cage in the shape of a cube.
The wooden rafts at the top would serve as walkways and provide space for
equipment such as a small freezer for trashfish, a trashfish cutter, a water pump
for high-pressure net cleaning, a diesel generator, and a small (4.5 m2)
guardhouse. The cages would be anchored in water from 4m to 8 m deep (measured
at low tide) with anchor rope length to water depth ratio of 6:1. Neighboring



- 19 -
clusters would be spaced so that the surface area of cages would never occupy
more than 10% of total water surface. At Huizhou, where 3,000 of the marine
cages would be installed, the project would also provide for strengthening of a
recently built seadike and opening a channel through the dike to facilitate tidal
flushing of the protected bay.  During ne&otiations. an understanding wa lreached
thAt furtWe  exanin of cages at t.he Rroi-ect sites would not be undertAken
before satisfying IDA that the. carryin& capacitieks of the prot-ected areAs are
adequate for such exi,ansion.
3.15        Freshwater cages - Some 3,000 cages would be installed in rivers at
two sites in Shantou Municipality The two sites are in the tributaries of the
Fong Jiang River system; the tributaries are each separated from the main river
by a gate which controls the flow volume of the tributaries, and there is little
seasonal variation in water flow and depth. Simple net cages with dimensions of
5 m x 5 m x 2.2 m on a bamboo framework would be placed so that the bottom of the
cage is at least 1 m above the river bottom. Groups of ten cages would be
attached in two rows to a floating anchored pontoon in the river.
3.16        Freshwater ponds - Some 734 ha of fresh water ponds would be
constructed in Zhaoqing and Shantou. As in the case of brackish water fish
culture, grow-out ponds would be 1 ha in size and nursery ponds 0.2 ha. Pond
depths would be 2.5 m to provide for a 2 m water depth and a 0.5 m freeboard. As
soils are generally better, pond embankments would be constructed with a side
slope of 1 vertical to 1.5 horizontal, and a top width of 3 m. Project works
would include the construction of canals, with associated water control
structures; ponds would be served by separate supply and drainage canals.
Project design reflects improvements since the IFAD-financed fresh water
fisheries project in Guangdong with which the Bank-group was associated; pond
design in that project provided only a common canal for both supply and drainage.
While the construction was less expensive, it constrains efficient water
management and limits the level of output. All freshwater pond sites are located
in areas already provided with major water conservancy works. There is adequate
water supply from the many irrigation canals nearby, and drainage and flood
control works are in place. Some pumping would, however, be required in Zhaoqing
to lift the supply from the tail ends of irrigation canals, and the pumped
drainage capacity at Chaoyang (Shantou) would be upgraded to enable the
evacuation of runoff resulting from a 10-year 24-hr storm within two days. As
ponds are located in low-lying areas, portable submersible pumps would be used to
drain the ponds for annual maintenance and repair or during an emergency.
3.17        Ovster-farms - About 440 ha (three different sites in Shanwei) of
intertidal flats would be developed for oyster production by placement of
concrete posts at a density of 30,000-37,500/ha. Posts measure 6 cm x 6 cm x 60
cm and are fabricated of bamboo-reinforced concrete. The post method improves on
the traditional "rock scattering" method by substituting a controlled density of
substrate materials on which spats (oyster seeds) can attach rather than relying
on a random scattering of materials and allows yield levels three to four times
higher.
3.18        Shrimf         - About 330 ha of shrimp ponds would be established at
two sites (Haifeng and Lufeng) in Shanwei, both reclaimed lands well sheltered
inside broad estuaries. About 6 km of seadikes serving to protect the sites
would require some strengthening. Production ponds (0.67 ha in size) and nursery
ponds (0.33 ha) would have a 1.5 m water depth and a minimim 0.5 m freeboard.
Side slopes of pond eubankments would be 1 vertical and 1.8 horizontal and a



- 20 -
minimum 3 m top width would be provided. Individual ponds would be served by
separate supply and drainage canals. Existing tidal gates have sufficient
drainage and flood discharge capacities, but an additional tidal gate to let in
sea water for daily exchange would be provided at each site.
3.19        Hatcheries and feed mills - An existing shrimp hatchery in Shanwei
would be expanded to increase its shrimp seed capacity from 84 million/year to
141 million/year to provide about half the seed requirements of project ponds;
the balance would be obtained from existing hatcheries in the vicinity. Works to
be undertaken would include a small pumping station to supply seawater,
filtration pond and reservoir, and concrete tanks for storage of broodstock,
larval rearing and phytoplankton and zooplankton production. A freshwater
hatchery/nursery would be expanded in Jiangmen--this facility has made a major
breakthrough in artificial production of mandarin fish and would use some of its
ponds to demonstrate the culture of this species to local fish farmers. The
project would add 10 ha of ponds for broodfish and nurseries, buildings and
laboratory equipment. To meet the needs of the project, three feedmills will be
expanded or constructed to provide an annual output of 15,000 t of fish and
shrimp feed.
3.20        Engineering Works - Following the recommendations of the preappraisal
mission, the Project Management Office (PMO) made arrangements for the design
crest levels and the slope stability of the project sea dikes at Fenghuojia,
Yanan, Xiasha, Leizhu, and Qiao to be reviewed by the Guangdong Water Conservancy
and Electric Power Investigation and Design Institute and those at Modaomen and
Jiaomen (land reclamation for agricultuie) by the Pearl River Water Resources
Commission. Engineering surveys of the existing dikes and geophysical
investigations were carried out.  The re<iew showed that:  (1) the design crest
levels at Yanan, Fenghuojia, Xiazha and  'ao need to be raised in order to
conform to design standards; and (2) a .-fety factor not less than 1.15 against
sliding is met at all sites except for tt;--Modaomen and Yanan.  At Yanan, the
factor of safety is not met as the se.a Jlike has been widened beyond the safe
limit of loading on the soft foundations. To remedy, the crest width would be
reduced together with the construction of a pressure berm. The sea dikes at
Haifeng, Lufeng (Shanwei, shrimp culture) -nd Chenghai (Shantou) are less
critical as they are older, farther inlandi .nd more protected, and have withstood
severe storms over the years; for these sit s, an assurance was obtained that the
provincial government would maintain the er_..ting sea dikes in accordance with
aRpropriate engineering standards.
3.21        Brick dormitories would be provided to enable farmers to live on the
farms to operate the ponds. Each production unit, comprising an adult pond and a
nursery pond, would be provided with a dormitory of 10 m2 in area, for a total of
30,062 m2 of on-farm housing. Most sites are only a short distance away from
existing power supply lines, the furthest being less than 5 km. About 160 km of
distribution lines with the necessary step down transformers would be installed.
Haifeng and Lufeng, the two shrimp culture sites, are the exception, and farmers
would be provided with portable diesel pumps. All aquaculture sites are
accessible by vehicle. Farm roads would be provided as necessary and improvement
of access roads would be carried out at some sites. About 100 km of gravel roads
with widths varying from 3 to 6 m and composed of crushed stones or quarry waste,
compacted to 15-20 cm in thickness, would be constructed. In addition, the
project would provide vehicles, work boats, transport boats, nets, and laboratory
equipment.   Working capitai is included for one production season, except in the



- 21 -
case of shrimp--the level of inputs cannot be financed by farmers out of net
income until after the second year of the project.
Agriculture
3.22        Fruit Production - The project would expand the production of litchi,
longan and pomelo in the Meizhou, Guangzhou and Maoming municipalities.
Existing orchards (2 to 3 years old) comprising 7,517 ha of litchi, 1,180 ha of
longan and 2,000 ha of pomelo would be improved and a further 2,130 ha of litchi
and 1,150 ha of longan would be established, New plantings would be restricted
to slopes not exceeding 250 and would include early maturing varieties which
would help extend the harvest period. Sloping land would be contour terraced
(this has been partially done in existing orchards but would be completed to
uniform standard under the project), and ground cover established. Seed,
seedlings, fertilizer, pesticides and farm tools and equipment would be provided
and the project would also finance construction of farm stores, water tanks,
manure pits and shallow wells. FDCs at the city, county and township levels
would be strengthened through the construction of additional research and
training facilities, fruit warehouses, and vehicles and equipment.
Table 3.3 Distribution of Agriculture Subprojects
Litchi      Longan      Pomelo
Location           Now   Rehab  New   Rehab  Rehab  Sugarcane
- -  -              (ha)  -  - -    - - - -  - - - - -
Guangzhou
Baiyun             180   750
Chenghua           600  1,100
Zheng Chen         350  1,000
1,130  2,850
Jiaocen (Panyu)
Nov reclamAtion                                   2,928
Improved reclam.                                  1,539
4,467
Maomin8
Dianbai            300  1,750
Gaozhou            300  1,750   500   330
Suazhou            170   500
M onan             100   240
Xinyi              100   240
City Fruit Dev Co   30   187    70
Gaoahou Fruit Dev Co             30
1,000  4,667   600   330
Meizhou
Fengshun                        350          334
Mejilang                                     200
Pingyuan                                     733
733
Xingning                        200   850
550   850  2,000
Zhuhai
Modaomn
Nov reclamation                                    514
Improved reclamation                              1,465
1,979
Total       2,130  7,517  1,15C  1,180  2,000  6,446



- 22 -
3.23        Land Reclamation for Sugar Cane and Vegetable Production - The
project would establish 3,970 ha of sugar cane and improve 2,476 ha of land where
sugar cane is presently grown on reclaimed land in the Zhuhai municipality and
Panyu county areas of the Pearl River delta. About one-tihird of the total cane
area would be intercropped with vegetables. Farmers from poor mountainous areas
with at least two full-time workers per family would be relocated on a voluntary
basis and provided with 1 ha per family. Funds for purchase of seed cane,
vegetable seed, fertilizer, pesticide, farm tools and equipment would be provided
as first year working capital loans and recirculated to other new farmers in
subsequent years. These revolving funds would be set up at ABC and managed by
the municipal Project Office and BOF. The project would also finance
construction of buildings and procurement of office equipment, boats and
vehicles, in addition to the land reclamation and drainage improvements described
below.
3.24        Modaomen (Zhuhai) Land Reclamation - The project would undertake
improvement of 1,465 ha of existing reclaimed land at Sanzaowan and the
reclamation of 514 ha of tidal land at Bailonghe (Fig. 1). The Sanzaowan section
involves strengthening of 5.6 km of seadike, construction of a 3.5 km main drain
with a 20 m wide drainage gate on the western boundary of ttie reclaimed land to
intercept the runoff and drainage discharge from the neighboring Hongqi farm, and
deepening of 1.6 km of main drains and 12.8 km of secondary drains. Improvement
works would also include raising the land level of 528 ha by an average of 20 cm.
About 730 ha of low-lying land in Sanzaowan would be developed for aquaculture
(para 3.13). Farm settlements would be established, and a drinking water supply
system serving the rural communities and electricity supply extended from
existing 10 kw power lines would be provided. The road on the existing sea dike
would be sealed with a bituminous surface and gravel farm roads would be
constructed.
3.25 The Bailonghe section comprises establishment of two polders on the east
side of Sanzaowan. In addition to 11 km of seadikes, it involves construction
within each polder of a main canal leading to a 6 m wide tidal gate/ship lock,
se,.ondary canals constructed at 100 m intervals, and the filling and raising of
the level of the newly reclaimed land by an average of 75 cm. The main (6.5 km)
and secondary canals (55.3 km) would serve water transport, in addition to
irrigation and drainage purposes. Small diesel sets would be provided for
generating electricity to meet local needs.
3.26        Ji_omen-anyu) Land Reclamation - The project would finance
improvement works for 1,534 ha of reclaimed land and the reclamation of 2,928 ha
of tidal land in three separate polders--Wanqingshawei, North Jibaosha and South
Jibaosha (Fig. 2). Within each polder, land is subdivided into rectangular
blocks varying from 200 to 500 ha in size. Each block would be served by a
system of main and secondary canals and field ditches. The elevation of about
1,740 ha of low-lying reclaimed land would be raised by filling and levelling.
Review of the dike de&sgn crest levels and slope stability by the Pearl River
Water Commission (para 3.20) showed that the stability was compromised when
borrow materials were obtained from near the outer toe (on the seaward side) of
the dike for repair of the dike body following typhoon damage. A pressure berm
would be constructed on the seaward side to restore the factor of safety.



- 23 -
3.27        In the early stage of development, contract farmers would live in
temporary housing; to insure adequate protection for settlers in the event of
typhoons, a total of 18 typhoon shelters would be provided. In the Wanqingshawei
section, the highway would be extended from Xinken township to serve the newly
reclaimed land. To extend the existing road to North and South Jibaosha is not
practicable as it would involve very expensive bridging work. A regular ferry
service exists between Nansha and North Jibaosha and a new service to South
Jibaosha would be provided. Electricity supply to Wanqingshawei would be
extended from existing power lines, but 50 kw diesel generators would be
installed at North and South Jibaosha. Electricity would be distributed through
the region through 10 km of 10 kw and 94 km of low tension lines.
3.28        About 80% of the annual rainfall of about 1,800 mm occurs in the
months of April through November. During this period, effective rainfall
generally exceeds crop water requirements, and evacuation of storm waters are the
main concern although occasional supplemental irrigation would still be
necessary. Water requirements for the sugar cane crop are low in other months
and can easily be met. To take advantage of the tidal difference, either to
drain or to irrigate by gravity, the elevation of the reclaimed lands should
preferably be at mean sea level, but should not be more than 0.5 m below mean sea
level, and for low-lying land, earth filling and levelling would be carried out
to raise the land surface. The intense network of farm ditches (constructed 2 m
to 4 m apart) serves effectively to remove excess water or to provide sub-
irrigation, i.e. freshwater is let in through tidal gates and to the field by way
of the farm ditches. In both the Modaomen and Jiaomen subprojects, the canals,
associated structures and tidal gates would be designed to evacuate within 48
hours, runoff resulting from a 24-hr storm with a return period of 10 years.
Additionally, the sizing of tidal gates would also be determined by the
requirement to let in water for irrigation in the limited hours during the day
when the salinity level is within limits of crop tolerance.
Agroindustries
3.29        The project would finance 13 agro-industry subprojects (not including
the cold stores and feed mills under the Marine Fisheries and Aquaculture
components). Six of the subprojects are located in the Shenzhen Special Economic
Zone; these enterprises would integrate research and commercial activities by
forming joint ventures with the Shenzhen Research Center for Agricultural Science
(SRCAS). The subprojects would include buildings, equipment, provision for waste
water and exhaust treatment, vehicles, training and technical assistance to
upgrade management skills, and working capital for one production cycle. The
projects are designed to produce value-added benefits and increased employment
for the project area and the province, and also provide necessary support
services to the agriculture and fisheries components of the project. Assurances
were obtained that the municipal Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs) would
aiprove final designs of effluent treatment facilities of each Rlant prior tQ
beginning constction and maintain an effluent monitoring system, and that all
effluent from agroindustries would be adeguately treated before disposal. The
following plants would be established or expanded (details are given in Aann_-):
Guangzhou Frozen Fruit and Vegetable Plant (Phases I and II)
Shenzhen Frozen Fruit and Vegetable Plant
Shenzhen Yogurt Drink Plant
Shenzhen Shenbao Fruit Juice Plant



- 24 -
Shenzhen Spirulina Natural Medicine Company
Shenzhen Feed Additive Plant
Shenzhen Foodstuff Processing Factory (instant noodles)
Zhuhai Fish Cannery
Qingyuan Lianshan Rosin Processing and Perfumery Plant
Lufeng Candied Fruit Factory (Shanwei)
Longan Drying Plants (Maoming (1) and Meizhou (2)
3.30        An assurance was obtained that before proceeding with expansion of
the Guangzghou Frozen Fruit and Vegetable Plant (Stage II). a feasibility study
would be provided. acceptable to IDA: the feasibilitv study would show (a)
profitable operation and full caRacity utilization of the first phase and (b)
export potential for additional production.
Limestone Mountains Poverty Alleviation Component
3.31        This component would be implemented in the impoverished limestone
mountain areas within the rural counties under Qingyuan municipality. It would
comprise three subcomponents. The planning and research subcomponent would
provide support for agreed studies on resource assessment, infrastructure
planning, marketing and agroprocessing feasibility; and strengthening of research
and extension programs for high-value cash crops and small livestock development.
The rural infrastructure subcomponent would assist local communities in the
construction, using appropriate labor-intensive techniques, of simple village
water supply schemes (primarily to relieve current acute shortages of drinking
water) and feeder roads to connect villages to market access roads. The
development credit subcomponent would finance loans to individual rural
households, groups of households and municipal- and lower-level enterprises in
support of agricultural development and establishment or expansion of agro-
processing industries. Subloans would finance up to 65% of total investment
cost, with project beneficiaries contributing at least 20% and Qingyuan
municipality, its participating counties or the financial intermediary designated
to handle these funds providing the balance. Assurances were obtained that
subloans would be appraised and approved by a financial intermediary acceptable
to IDA. applving guidelines agreed by the provincial Leading Group For Poor Areas
Development and acceRtable to IDA and (b) made on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA. including interest equivalent to prevailing ABC terms (para 4.12).
3.32        As this component is at a less advanced stage of preparation than
other project components, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that Oing3uan
city would be reauired to submit. through the PMO. an a22roved detailed
implementation program to IDA for review not later than June 30. 1992. The
program would confirm/modify the present tentative allocation of IDA funds
($500,000 for studies and research, $2.6 million for rural infrastructure and
$11.8 million for development credits); provide a detailed plan for studies and
research (including draft terms of reference for proposed planning studies to be
carried out in the following year); propose approval criteria for rural
infrastructure and development credit subprojects; and set out the following
year's proposed program for rural infrastructure investment. The program would
also address any environmental impact proposed activities may have, as well as
any resettlement of persons that will take place as part of the proposed
activities, and present plans of action for taking measures to mitigate any
adverse environmental impacts and to carry out any such resettlement. Acceptance
of the implementation program by IDA would be a condition of disbursement against



- 25 -
the component. Subsequent years' programs would be submitted for IDA review by
December 1 of the preceding year (para 4.15).
Training. Research and Technical Assistance
3.33        The project would include funds for local and overseas training,
study tours, research and consultants. Research would be coordinated within the
broad provincial research need, instead of having fragmented county or regional
efforts. Research to be funded by the project (initial topics are indicated
below) would be defined by municipal project offices in consultation with the PMO
and proposals invited from relevant research institutions. These proposals would
specify objective, principal investigator, background, experimental procedure,
and budget and would be reviewed by the PMO before funding. Assurances were
obtained that training. study tours and research would be carried out in
accordance with a program agreed with IDA. The PM0 would provide annually to IDA
for its review and comment a list of the overseas training and study tours
proposed for the coming year with purpose, destination, criteria for participant
selection, and names and titles of participants. Consultants would be selected
under terms of reference agreed with IDA and in accordance with Bank-group
Guidelines.
3.34        In the marine fisheries component, approximately 1,700 person months
of local training and study tours would be provided to county and municipal
technicians, managers, key fishing crew, and resource monitoring staff.   In
addition, the project would finance 61 person months of overseas training in
fishery technology, fishing and navigation instrumentation, and cold storage and
processing and 4 person months of technical assistance for net design, aquatic
product packaging and marketing, fisheries management and training design.
Domestic training would take place to a large extent at the Bureau of Aquatic
Products Training School in Guangzhou, which is being further expanded and
equipped with local budgetary funds.
3.35        For the aquaculture component,  the project includes about 2,200
person months of local training for farmers, managers and project staff. In
addition, 35 person months of overseas training would be provided in propagation
technology and disease prevention and 26 person months of overseas study tours to
study production technology abroad. About six person months of technical
assistance in propagation technology is included. The project would also fund a
small research component on the effects of pond depth and usage of pelletized
feed in shrimp production.
3.36        In the agriculture component, about 10,500 person months of local
training and study tours would be provided for farmers, technicians, managers and
project staff. Training topics would include soil conservation, pest and disease
control, cultural practices, accounting, financial management and marketing. &U
understanding was reached that at least 201 of the farm technicians and 50% of
the farmer trainees would be-women. Some 200 person months of domestic
consultants would be engaged for project management, marketing and technical
advice. Overseas study tours and technical assistance would focus on packag-
ing/marketing and storage/processing with 20 person months of study tours and 2
person months of technical assistance. Research to be funded by the project
would be focussed on integrated pest management, development and evaluaticn of
superior crop varieties, crop water and fertilizer requirements, techniques for
handling, grading and packaging, and improved storage.



- 26 -
3.37        The agroindustry component includes provision for 1,100 person months
of local training, 35 person months of overseas study tours for selection of
equipment and operational training, and 9 person months of technical assistance.
D. Status of Proiect Preparation
3.38        Vessel design, based on design of vessels which have been constructed
in the province over the last two years, has been completed and specifications
are under preparation. A fisheries monitoring plan has been reviewed and
endorsed with minor modification (para 3.9). For the aquaculture component,
sites have been identified for all components, surveys have been carried out, and
preliminary designs prepared. For the agriculture component, orchard sites have
been selected for improvement and development. Preliminary designs have been
prepared for warehouses, collection centers, office buildings and research and
training facilities. For the land reclamation component, layout and preliminary
engineering designs have been completed, and detailed designs have been partially
prepared. To ascertain that the necessary factor of safety against failure has
been provided for in the design of sea dikes (paras 3.20 and 3.26),
representative soil samples were taken to determine the engineering properUies
and soil strength, and slope stability analysis performed. As the Jiaomen site
falls within the seismic zone with an earthquake intensity of 7 (equivalent to a
magnitude of 5 on the Richter scale), the design was also checked for the effect
of earthquake and found to be satisfactory. The designs of sea dikes for both
the brackish water fish culture and land reclamation subprojects have been
revised where necessary to insure stability. For the agroindustry components,
preliminary designs have been prepared and equipment specifications are being
formulated. A detailed implementation plan for the poverty component would be
submitted for IDA review by June 30, 1992 (para 3.32)
E. ImRlementation Schedule
3.39        The project would be implemented over a period of seven years
beginning in late 1991 with completion in December 1997. A detailed implemen-
tation schedule is given in Chart 2. The marine fisheries component would be
implemented over a five year period, with procurement of vessels in the first,
.;hird and fifth years, contingent on financial viability of operations and
adequacy of resources (established by resource surveys and the monitoring
program). The construction periods for the land reclamation subprojects would be
three and five years, depending on the amount of work already completed. For the
shrimp and fish culture subprojects, the construction period would generally be
three years. Project activities for fruit development would be phased over four
years for orchard improvement and six years for new orchards with production
beginning in the third and fifth years, respectively.
F. Cost Estimates
3.40        The total project cost in mid-1991 prices is estimated at US$303.8
million (Y1,721.8 million), with a foreign exchange component of US$116.3 million
(Y656.3 million), 38% of the total. Taxes and duties are not included in the
project cost; imported materials and equipment are exempt from duties. Cost
estimates are based on quantities derived from the designs described in para 3.38
and unit prices currently prevailing in the project area. Prices for materials
and equipment are based on suppliers, quotawions or, in the case of fishing
vessels, on designers estimates. Physical contingencies of 5-15% have been



. 27 -
included for civil works and equipment and equal 5% of base costs. Price
escalation for both foreign and local costs, when expressed in US dollars, is
based on annual international price escalation rates for all goods and services
of 3.6% from 1991 on; and when expressed in yuan, is based on price escalation
rate of 8% in 1991, 5% in 1992 and thereafter. Price contingencies would amount
to 6% of total costs expressed in US doll.rs. Estimated costs are summarized in
Table 3.4 and details are given in Annex 4.
Table 3.4 - Project Cost Summary
Local    For.     Total   Local   For.      Total    X    X
-(Y million)-------- ---------(USS million) ---------    FE  Bass
Marine Fisheries     2O.5    233.0     262.5    5.6    44.7    50.3    86   19
Aquaculture         255.8     63.7     319.5    49.0    12.2    61.2    20   23
Agriculture
Fruit Development  194.2    134.3    328.5    37.2    25.7    62.9    41   23
Land Reclamation   207.5     33.1    240.6    39.8     6.3    46.1    14   17
Agroindustries       83.6     79.9     163.5    16.0    15.3    31.3    49   12
Poverty Alleviation  100.3    1.7      102.0    19.2     0.3    19.5     2    7
Base Cost           870.8    545.7   1,416.5   166.8   104.5   271.3    39  100
Physical cont.       49.4     27.9     77.3     9.5      5.3    14,8    37    5
Price contingency   145.3     82.7     228.0    11,2     6.5    17.7    37    6
TOTAL COST         1,065.5    656.3   1,721.8   187.5   116.3   303.8    38  112
G.  Financing
3.41        Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 121.7 million
(US$162 million equivalent), covering 53% of total project costs, equivalent to
100% of foreign exchange costs and 24% of local costs. The Government would
onlend the proceeds of the loan to the Guangdong provincial government. The
balance of US$ 141.8 million equivalent would be met from the provincial,
municipal and county governments (US$ 12.0 million), enterprise and beneficiary
contributions (US$ 53.2 million), and domestic loans (US$76.6 million).
H. Procurement
3.42        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.5.  A procurement
schedule is given in Chart 2, showing packaging and timing, and procurement
arrangements for each component and a list of contracts are given in Annex 5.
Works worth about US$100.7 million would be required for the project, consisting
of seadikes and land reclamation (US$46.1 million), pond and cage development
(US$35.0 million), and buildings and infrastructure (US$19.6 million). The civil
works and buildings (US$92.6 million) are proposed for LCB because they are
dispersed over a wide geographic area, phased over a four-year period, and would
be small--there are 240 contracts, averaging US$0.38 million, and none would
exceed US$2.0 million. In addition, the seadike construction would require labor
intensive methods because poor soil conditions preclude the use of large fleets
of heavy construction machinery and equipment. Nonc would be of interest to
foreign contractors. About US$4.1 million of orchard infrastructure (access
roads, wells, pump houses) would be undertaken through force account by county
governments in coordination with municipal project offices and the rural
infrastructure subproject (US$4.0 million) in the Poverty Alleviation component
would be carried out by village labor supervised by county government engineers.



- 28 -
Table 3.5 ProcrAent Profi le
IC       LCO    OTHER       MA    Tot!.
....         .. USE0            .
Wort.,
LUS rect(tion                             46.1                       46.1
(23 2)                     (23.2)
Marin flsihares 0otd stort.,               2.0                        2.0
buiidinp Mra  iterr                     (100)                       (0.0)
Orcharcd dmimnt on-hfre                   2.6     4.1                6.7
wonocs rd buidingos                     (2.3)    (3.7)              (6.0)
Aatnejture pwode wO cages                 35.0                        3O.0
(0.0)                      (0,0)
Agredutry bJildings                        6.9                        6.9
(3.4)                      (3.4)
Po~rty *ti.visticn rurft                           4.0                4.0
Infre"truture                                   (2.6)               (2.6)
........  ........  ...... ....... .......  .....  .............. ....
0.0     92.6      S.1      0.0    100.7
0.0    (28.9)    (6.3)    (0.0)   (35.2)
Ccems
FishIng velts                   47.9                                 47.9
(46.1)                               (46.1)
Vetet  arch boats               10.1                                 10.1
010.0}                               (10.1)
Fertitizer ed ch ehtels         24.0                                 24.0
(24.0)                               (24.0)
Agroln6dtry dehiwnry            16.0       4.7                       20.7
(12.6)    (3.6)                      (16.2)
Materials NW coLd store and     14.2       0.5     0.3                10.0
office Rqlunt                 (14.0)    (0.4)   (0.2)              (14.6)
Fare euip atd a,Ptp(I                      2.4     6.6               11.2
0l.7     o.o               (1.7)
.... ........ ...........  ........  ........  ..........  ........
112.2      7.6     9.1       0.0    128.9
(106.8)    (5.7)   (0.2)      0.0   (112.7)
Othert
training, research ad                                        3.9      3.9
tec0rnic$t assistae                                       (1.)      (1.8)
Povarty itevi.tion studies                                   0.5      0.5
(0.5)    (0.5)
Poverty rta* irvetmnts                            18.2               18.2
(1t 81            (11.3)
3.9      3.9
(0.0)    (0.0)
Coft lpn, proj mraegmomt, tach fat                           S.?      5.7
(0.0)    (0.0)
Worsing capitat                                             22.0     22.0
(0.0)    (0.0)
Far  tabor                                                  20.0     20.0
(0.0)    (0.0)
0.0      0.0    18.2      56.0      74.2
(0.0)    (0.0)   (11.8)    (2.3)    (14.1)
"I,  g.@           l.     -    -   w.. -
TOTAL PROJECT                   t11.2      l0.Z    35.4       56.0    303.8
(106.18)    (34.6)   (18.3)    (2.3)   (162.0)
........................................................................................
Rote  igure in pefrntheM art the mte  to be fInancd by the IOA Credit.
3.43                  Goods worth about US$128.9 million would be required for the project.
International competitive bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for the fishing
vessels, vehicles, major agroprocessing equipment, fertilizers, agrochemicals,
and most cold store, research, and office equipment (US$112.2 million, or about
87% of all goods). Fishing vessels would be procured in years 1, 3 and 5 of the
project for a total of seven contracts. Minor equipment and supplies for cold
stores, agroindustries and offices (US$7.6 million) would be procured through
LCB. Farm supplies and inputs totalling US$8.8 million (beancake, manure,
seedlings, and small hand tools) would be procured directly by farmers.
Computers (US$0.3 million) would be procured through LIB procedures. Whenever
possible, machinery and equipment will be grouped into contracts-valued at
US$200,000 or more and procured through ICB according to Bank Guidelines.
Qualified domestic manufacturers would receive a preference of 15% of c.i.f. bid
price or the applicable customs duties, whichever is less, in bid evaluations.
Contracts for goods valued at less than US$200,000 would be purchased through LCB
using procedures acceptable to IDA. All procurement packages in excess of
US$200,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review. That would cover about 80% of
the works and 89% of the goods by value. The review would involve approximately
15 goods and 80 works contracts over the six-year life of the project.



- 29 -
3.44        Overseas training and study tours, consultants and research (US$1.8
million) would be financed by IDA. Consultants would be employed in accordance
with the Bank-group Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Subloans (US$11.8
million) extended under the povery alleviation component for 65% of the total
investment cost would be financed by the Credit. Land acquisition, engineering
design, construction supervision, project management, farm labor and working
capital, which amount to US$51.6 million would not be funded by IDA.
3.45        The procurement agency for the project will be China National
Technical Import and Export Corporation (CNTIC) which has carried out this
function successfully for previous Bank group projects. Bid invitation and
evaluation and award recommendations would be the responsibility of the
procurement agency in consultation with the provincial aut'horities. The agency
would use the standard bidding doc-aments that have been issued under the
direction of the Ministry of Finance in consultation with the Bank Group.
I. Disbursements
3.46        Disbursements for fishing vessels, vehicles and boats, fertilizers
and chemicals, food processing machinery and equipment, office equipment, and
cold store equipment would be at 100% of foreign exchange costs of imported items
or 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items and 75% of local
expenditure for other items procured locally. Disbursements would be 100% of
total costs for research, overseas training, study tours, and consultants, and
poverty studies. Disbursements would be made at the rate of 50% of the total
costs of works for land reclamation and buildings for agroindustries, at 65% for
rural infrastructure in the poverty component, at 90% for the offices and on-farm
works for orchards, and at 100% of subloans for the poverty component (subloans
would finance up to 65% of investment project cost - para 3.31).
3.47        Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs)
in cases of civil works by force account, overseas training and study tours,
poverty studies, development credits, contracts for works goods and services,
each costing less than US$200,000. For works carried out by force account, SOEs
would be supported by progress reports, showing physical quantities and unit
prices (the latter would be updated annually by the Project Offices and reviewed
by IDA). Supporting documentation would be retained by the Project Offices and
made available to IDA supervision missions.
3.48        In order to provide for efficient disbursement, a special account
would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA with an initial deposit
of US$7.6 million, which represents the average estimated four-month
expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be
submitted monthly, or whenever the special account is drawn down to 50% of its
initial deposit, whichever comes first. In order to facilitate startup of the
project, the Government has proposed to use up to SDR 9.6 million (US$12.8
million, 8% of the credit) for retroactive financing of expenditures made after
January 31, 1991. An understanding was reached at negotiations that specific
items under Categories 1 and 2 (goods and works) would be eligible for
retroactive financing Provided the procurement procedures are acceptable :o IDA.
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997 and the closLng date
would be December 31, 1998. The disbursement experience in China has been very
favorable and better than Bank-wide and regional averages. The project
disbursement profile is in line with that for specific investment loans in China.
An estimated disbursement schedule is given in Anex 6.



- 30 -
J.  Accounts and Audits
3.49        Records of expenditures on civil works, equipment and nmaterials would
be maintained by the Project Offices (POs) in the participating municipalities
and counties. These records would be forwarded to the provincia] Project
Management Office (PMO) which would prepare consolidated accounts including their
own records of expenditures. The PMO would, in turn, compile a complete report
on project expenditures for submission to IDA. Assurances were obtained at
p~ogipatlons that the PMo would maintain the consolidated accounts for auditing
alnualJy_by independentw  uditors accept e t _     DA and that the audited accounts
would be usi  months of the close of eachfinancl year
The audited accounts would include details of withdrawals from the Credit account
made on the basis of SOEs and the auditors opinion as to whether such withdrawals
were against expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA. It is expected that
the State Audit Administration would undertake the auditing of the project
accounts.
K. Environmental Impact
3.50        A detailed environmental assessment (EA) of the project was carried
out by Zhongshan University under terms of reference prepared by IDA. The EA has
been reviewed by IDA and, with the provision of an addendum further clarifying
specific issues, found acceptable. The most important issue related to the
impact of the project on four wetland sites (Lufeng Marsh, Futien Nature Reserve,
mangrove forests of the Pearl River Delta, and Beijin Gang), considered to be
ecologically sensitive areas. The university and the PMO have submitted a
statement that they have reviewed all project locations with respect to these
sites and have found no adverse impacts on them. The PMO brought to negotiations
an Environmental Action Plan outlining the overall environmental protection
measures to be carried out and a program of environmental monitoring throughout
the project life. Assurances were obtained that the Dlan as agreed with IDA
would be implemented and that proiect activities would comply with the guidelines
and regulations issued by the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) and
the-uangdong  -P-.-acceptable to IDA. The main environmental impacts of the
project are summarized below:
3.51        Marine Fisheries - The adequacy of fishery resources in the South
China Sea has been a major concern during preparation of the project, firstly to
insure that vessels to be financed under the proposed project would be able to
achieve catch levels to allow profitable operation and secondly, that the total
level of fishing effort would not exceed sustainable yields. To this end,
certain safeguards have been built into the project: the number of vessels has
been reduced 70% from original proposals, procurement of the fishing vessels has
been phased over five years, with the second and third lots contingent on
financial viability of the previous lot and adequacy of resources proven by
periodic resource assessments and continuous monitoring. In addit!on, the PMO
would prepare a fisheries management plan (para 3.9), which would include a
definition of overfishing for major stock complexes. Shore facilities exist for
off-loading oil from the fishing vessels and vessels would keep oil transfer logs
documenting disposal. Placards would be placed on board covering prohibitions on
catching protected species and regulations prohibiting the discharge of netting
and waste plastic. Vessels would be equipped with separate holding tanks for
oily water and sewage--sewage tanks would be pumped clean at sea and oily water
waste would be discharged through existing onshore facilities.



- 31 -
3.52        Atuac-ulture - The major environmental concern is that ponds are
properly managed to prevent eutrophication of local waterbodies. Careful pond
management would be promoted under the project with efficient use of feed to
avoid water degradation and reduce the cost of pumping for water replacement. The
cage culture component has been designed with acceptable density levels and an
understanding was reached that local authorities would not expand cage culture
without prior Bank concurrence (para 3.14).
3.53        Agriculture - Of major concern has been the use of chemical
fertilizers and pesticides. Excessive levels of fertilizer application initially
proposed for the fruit development components have been reduced. Farmers have
tended, when fertilizers are available, to aim for maximum yields without regard
to cost effectiveness of additional inputs or the environmental impact of
excessive fertilizer use. The project includes funding for field trials to
determine economic fertilizer application rates. An assurange-was obtained _hat
Desticides to be provided under the project would be approved by IDA and that
Bank-grouD guidelines on stgrage. handling, distribution and use would be
followed.  The safe use of agrochemicals would be included ir. the training of
farmers and technicians (para 3.36). In addition, the project would provide
research and training in integrated pest management, which is being practiced in
some areas and would be further promoted under the project.
3.54        Agroindustries - Proposals for all subprojects have been reviewed to
insure that cost estimates contain adequate allowances for appropriate treatment
facilities and appropriate assurances have been obtained (para 3.29).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Project Organization
4.1         The Government of Guangdong Province would be responsible for the
overall implementation of the project. The management structure would replicate
that used for other Bank-Group financed provincial agricultural development
projects,i.e. Leading Groups (LGs) and Project Offices (POs) at the provincial,
municipal and county levels.
B. Leading GrouRs and Project Offices
4.2         The Provincial Leading Group (PLO) is chaired by the Vice-Governor in
charge of agriculture and assisted by representatives from the Provincial
Agriculture Commission, the Provincial Planning Commission, Foreign Economic and
Trade Commission, Bureau of Finance, Bureau of Agriculture (BA), and Bureau of
Aquatic Products (BAP). The main responsibilities of the PLG would be to
organize counterpart funding, formulate proj3ct-related policies and plans,
review and resolve major issues related to the project and enlist support of
other relevant agencies. The PLG would meet as needed to review progress,
coordinate the activities of other agencies, approve annual work programs and
budget, and provide guidance to the provincial-level Project Management Office
(PMO). It would also serve to keep the provincial government apprised of the
overall progress of implementation. At the municipal and county levels, similar
leading groups would be established and headed by the Mayor, Assistant Mayor for
Agriculture, or County Chief. An assurance was obtained that the PLGs at the
Drovincial. municiRal and county levels would be-maintained with comDosition  n
rgsDonsibilites-acceRtable to ,IDA.



- 32 -
4.3         The Project Management Office (PMO) was established at the Provincial
Agricultural Commission in December 1988 and coordinated the preparation of
feasibility studies by the various municipalities and line agencies. The PMO
would have primary responsibility for overall implementation of the project and
would be assisted by Project Offices at the Bureaus of Agriculture and
Aquaculture. The PMO would (1) draw up annual detailed work programs and budgets
for the project; (2) review and approve lower level PO work plans; (3) monitor
physical and financial progress of the project; (4) coordinate and supervise
project implementation, including regular field supervision in association with
the POs from BAP and BA; (5) review and approve technical specifications fcr
project components; (6) liaise with central and provincial agencies regarding
project implementation (e.g. procurement, planning, finance, marketing, etc.);
(7) undertake procurement matters with the advice of the relevant procurement
agencies; (8) prepare detailed project accounts and progress reports; and (9)
submit withdrawal applications to IDA. The PMO is divided into four departments:
Secretariat/Administrative, Project Management, Procurement, and
Financial/Planning.
4.4         The provincial Bure.us of Agriculture (BA) and Aquatic Products (BAP)
would be directly responsible for the implementation and operation of their
components, agriculture and aquaculture/marine fisheries, respectively. Both
bureaus have establifhed POs, headed by a director and assisted by a deputy (in
the case of BAP, two deputies, one for aquaculture and another for marine
fisheries). Support staff include technicians, financial managers and
interpreters. The POs have been involved in the project from the early stages of
preparation and would be responsible for (1) review of each municipality's
implementarion plans, (2) provision of technical guidance, (3) supervising
quality and progress of construction, including regular field supervision in
coordination with the PMO, and (4) preparation of technical specifications of
equipment and material to be procured. The same pattern of POs is repeated at
municipal and county-level bureaus. They would monitor progress of the component
and evaluate the impact of project activities on fisherman, household and
enterprise income. An assurance was obtained that the PMO at the provincial
level and POs under the BA and BAP and at the municipal and county levels would
be maintained with functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA and staffed
by comDetent staff in adeguate numbers.
4.5         At the municipal level, the local BAs and BAPs manage on behalf of
their governments a number of agriculture- or fisheries-related companies, which
handle both primary production at specific locations and a range of support
services. Each municipality has selected one agriculture, aquatic products
and/or fisheries company to implement the project in its respective locality.
These companies have been selected on the basis of their experience and past
performance in production, handling, marketing, and providing necessary inputs.
They are independent economic entities, originally established with equity
provided by local governments, and have charters giving them legal status,
detailing the scope of their activities, sources and amount of capital, and
borrowing powers.
C. Implementation and Management of Production
LUrine Fisheries
4.6         The municipal marine fishery company, or its county or township
subsidiary, would designate eligible captains on the basis of the following



- 33 -
qualifications: about 45 years of age, education above middle school, at least
ten years experience in marine offshore fishing, possession of a Grade 3
certificate (to operate in waters >100 m depth), and above average management
results and output value for the last three years. The company would establish a
baseline of the lowest acceptable output and the lowest output value to be paid
as a contract fee, calculated on the basis of recovering the capital investment
over a ten-year period, interest and the company's management expenses. The
captains would form collectives and would bid on the amount of contract fee they
would be willing to pay. All vessels would be mortgaged to the respective
company until full loan recovery. The municipal marine company would provide all
services to fishing vessels such as supply of diesel, oil, ice, consumable
material, and repairs for cash or on a voyage credit basis. Each vessel would be
staffed with a captain, mate, first and second engineers, mdster fishermen,
skilled and semi-skilled crew. Wages for crew members are negotiated between the
collective and the respective crew members, but typically are arranged through a
point system, an example of which is given in Annex 8. Ships would be required
to have insurance coverage against loss of property and life of the crew.
4.7         The Guangdong BAP would develop fishing vessel maintenance and
service schedules, which would be incorporated into the contracts between
municipal fishery companies and the captains (as representative of the
collective). A schedule of machinery servicc and lt-brications would be compiled
to comply with the various machinery manufacturers recommendations. A program of
annual hull maintenance would incorporate such tasks as cleaning underwater hull;
checking bilge keel, propeller, keel band and rubbing copes, and hull
planking/plating for damage; check rubber lower bearing for play; and painting
(steel vessels) or oiling and varnishing (wooden vessels) of hull and deckhouse.
Periodically (every three years), the propeller shaft should be withdrawn and
examined for damage and wear. An assurance was obtained that the BAP would
develoR the vessel maintenance and service schedules for each type of vessel
Rromntly after the first delivery of fishing vessels and would furnish these
schedules to IDA for review and comment. A similar schedule would be drawn up
for vehicles and would be incorporated into the contractual arrangements between
the municiDal PO and the enterprise or entity receiving the vehicles.
Aguaculture
4.8         For most of the aquaculture component, the municipal and county
Aquatic Products Development Companies wou'd contract with households or groups
of households for operation of ponds or c ,es. The exception would be at
Modaomen, where the Modaomen Integrated DLrelopment Corporation (para 4.9) would
be responsible for management of the brac.dsh water ponds in the low-lying
portion of Sanzaowan. The companies would also insure the supply of necessary
inputs, including fry, feed, etc., carry out maintenance of canals and drains,
provide technical guidance and training, and would recover the full cost of the
capital investment through contract fees. An understanding was reached that
maintenance standards of individual facilities (ponds or cages) would be
incorporated into contracts between management entities and sDecialized
households.



- 34 -
Agriculture
4.9         Land Reclamation - Two local publicly-owned development corporations,
the Panyu Reclamation and Development Corporation and the Modaomen Integrated
Development Corporation, would be responsible for implementation and operation
and maintenance of land reclamation works, and management of agricultural
production. They would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
flood protection works and common facilities such as the dikes, tidal gates,
canals, drains, roads, power supply lines, while farmers would be responsible for
the maintenance and operation of pond embankments, inlet and outlet gates, canals
and culverts serving the individual farms. The expenses associated with 0 & M of
common tacilities would be recovered from farmers through the contract fees, and
contracts between farmers and the development corporations would specify the
production targets and the requisite standard of maintenance. The supply of
inputs would be channelled through the development corporations in accordance
with allocation plans drawn up by the PMO. With assistance from the Industrial
Crops Research Institute and the Agriculture Bureau, the corporations would
provide technical advice and training to project area farmers. The land
reclamation areas would absorb excess labor from the poor mountainous areas and
surrounding towns and villages (para 3.23). Criteria for selection would include
willingness, good health, and prior classification as surplus labor in the
resident county. Farmers would be given five-year renewable contracts and
allotted land on the basis of 1 na for each two laborers in the family.
Generally, new farmers would be required to make a deposit of 20-30% of the
annual contract fee, but this would be waived in cases where the farm family's
per capita income is less than 75% of the provincial average.
4.10        Fruit Development - Fruit Development Companies (FDCs) would be
responsible for implementing the fruit crop subcomponents under the supervision
of their respective PMO's. The FDCs have been set up as independent economic
entities with equity investment from the respective municipality or county.
Their charters include undertaking activities to help in the production and
marketing of fruit in their respective municipalities. Under the project, the
FDCs would select farmers and sites for improvement and expansion of fruit
orchards. The FDCs would supply seedlings from their own managed nurseries and
provide technical services and inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides and farm
tools and equipment to develop the land. The FDCs would be responsible for
providing market information and would also purchase fruit from farmers, although
farmers would be free to sell to private vendors. Project farmers would be
required to contract with their county FDC for orchard development. Under the
terms of the contract, farmers would contribute to orchard development by
undertaking land preparation, planting, production of organic manure, application
of inputs and orchard maintenance. FDCs would supply farmers with inputs on
credit and would levy a fee for their technical services. Farmers would
reimburse these expenditures from the proceeds of the sale of fruit.
Agroindustries
4.11        Agroindustries would be owned by the cities or counties, either
wholly or as joint ventures, and would be established as autonomous commercial
companies with Boards of Directors, charters and business licenses. The
management responsibility system, which provides for independent managers, would
be adopted by all enterprises under the project. The enterprises established and
supported by the project would have the legal status to operate as profitable
business concerns under managers responsible for profits and losses. &



- 35 -
assurance was obtained at negotiations that operational guidelines acceptable to
IDA would aRlv to all newly established enterprises and. to the extent possible.
to existing ones. including that enterprises would maintain a debt-equity ratio
no greater than 5:1 at all times.
D. Financial Management
4.12        Proceeds of the IDA Credit would be onlent to Guangdong Province on
the following terms: an interest rate of 6% with repayment of 'L years, including
a 5 year grace period, and the foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
province. The Guangdong Bureau of Finance (CBOF), representing the provincial
government, would channel these funds to municipal governments. The municipal
BOFs would pass on part of the project funds to POs for public works and
research, training and extension activities and onlend another part through
fiscal agents to enterprises and farmers. For the marine fisheries, aquaculture,
orchard, and land reclamation components, ABC would act as fiscal agent for
onlending to enterprises and farmers, and onlending would be only for activities
that have been appraised and approved by the PMO. For the poverty alleviation
component, a financial intermediary acceptable to IDA would act as fiscal agent
and appraise and approve subloans, which would be extended to end users. ABC and
the financial intermediary would bear no credit risk, but would be paid an agreed
commission on funds disbursed and recovered. Funds onlent to project enterprises
and final beneficiaries would be at interest rates no less than the prevailing
rates for ABC loans for similar purposes and terms. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that arrangements acceptable to IDA would be made with ABC and the
financial intermediary for incorporating these onlending procedures. Revolving
funds for first year working capital loans would be established at municipal ABCs
for fishing vessels, sugar cane producers, and agroindustries, including cold
stores, feed mills and hatcheries. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
these revolving funds would be established at ABC branches and that the loans
from the revolving funds would also be-r interest at a rate no less than ABC's
prevailing rates at similar terms for similar purposes.
4.13        Domestic funds, which account for 47% of project costs, would be
contributed by the provincial, municipal and county governments and the project
beneficiaries, which would contribute either in cash or in kind. A Project
Agreement incorporating all project terms and conditions would be signed between
IDA and Guangdong Province. State Council approval of the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
4.14        geco,ery of Project Investments.  The participating municipal and
county BOFs would be responsible for full recovery of the IDA portion of total
project funding. Counties would repay municipalities, which would repay the
province which, in turn, would repay MOF for the use of the IDA credit. Domestic
funds would be returned to the respective county BOFs, except funds loaned from
the revolving funds for working capital. In all cases, 100% of the investment
costs would be recovered from project participants. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that after recovery of the investment costs of fishing vesselsL
ownership would be transferred to the fishermen who have contracted the boats and
repaid the investment cost.



- 36 -
E. Execution of Project Works
4.15        Major civil works construction for seadikes and land reclamation and
agropzocessing plants would be contracted under LCB procedures. Contracts would
be signed between the successful bidder and the municipal project entity (e.g.
the Modaomen Integrated Development Company), after review by the PMO. As
substantial settlement can be expected in the early years after completion of the
seadikes, the condition of the dike must be kept under surveillance and where
settlement has taken place, the dike must be raised to prevent overtopping. An
assurance was obtained that a monitoring system would be instituted to insure
that raising is carried out as soon as settlement has occurred. An assurance was
also obtained that during implementation the technical guality of construction.
as well as the adequacy of monitoring procedures. would be examined and evaluated
periodically by independent authorities acceptable to IDA (such as the Pearl
River Water Resource Commission or the Guangdong Water Conservancy and Electric
Power Investigation and Design Institute). The responsibility for design,
construction, supervision during construction, and management and ownership of
various project works are shown in Annex 7. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the PMO would submit an annual detailed work plan and reDort on
the schedule and financing arrangements of works to IDA for review by December 15
of each year for works Dlanned for the next calendar year.
F. Project Launch WorkshoD
4.16        To initiate implementation and review of detailed design, IDA and
local staff would conduct a Project Launch Workshop in Guangzhou for staff of the
provincial, municipal and county project offices. The purpose of the workshop
would be to review the total program for implementation and to clari'y tasks and
responsibilities at each level. Topics to be covered would include procurement
and disbursement procedures, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation.
G. Monitoring. Evaluation and Re orting
4.17        The provincial, municipal and county project offices and their
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Units would monitor project progress and evaluate
the project's economic and financial benefits for each component and overall
impact. The municipal project offices would keep a correct account of physical
and financial progress of each of the project components. Physical indicators
would include such items as civil works and earthworks completed and equipment
and materials procured. Financial reports would detail project expenditures and
support claims for disbursement against credit proceeds. Information on
financial and physical progress would be submitted semi-annually to the municipal
project office, which would prepare and forward progress reports to the
provincial PMO according to each component. Routine monitoring of physical and
financial progress would enable project offices to idertify problems and make
adjustments as required in the project's implementation arrangements. A list of
key monitoring indicators for physical progress and project expenditures and a
plan for IDA supervision are given in Annex 10. The PMO would prepare and submit
to IDA semi-annual progress reports and undertake a mid-term review of the
project to assess progress and chart remaining implementation. The final, broad
assessment of the project's implementation would be the basis for preparation of
a project completion report by the PMO, to be submitted to IDA no later than six
months following the closing date.



- 37 -
V. PRODUCTION
5.1               The incremental production from the project (Table 5.1) would be
attained through: (a) expansion of fishing areas to relatively unexploited waters
with depths greater than 100 m; (b) expansion of cultivated areas; (c)
improvement of cultivation techniques and soil conditions with provision of high
quality seedlings and seeds, fertilizer and agro-chemicals; and (d)
transformation of unutilized and under-utilized land into productive use by land
reclamation and more intensive *-tltivation.
Table 5.1        AnnuaL Primary Production at FuLL Development
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT         W/PROJECT AT FULL DEVELOPMENT            INCREMENTAL
Unit    No or    Yield Production  No. or    Yield Production    No. or  Production
Area (t/unit)      (t)         Area (t/unit)        (t)          Area      (t)
Marine fish
Pair trawLer               boat                                         66       650      42,900          66       42,900
Refrig trawler             boat                                         14       700       9,800          14        9,800
Purse seiner               boat                                          6       490       2,940           6        2,940
55,640                   55,640
Aquaculture
Shrimp                     ha                                          300      3.15         945         300          945
Oyster                     ha                                          440      2.00         880         440          880
Freshwater fish            ha                                          734      6.25       4,588         734        4,588
Freshwater cages           ea                                        3,000      0.75       2,250        3000        2,250
Brackish water (HS)        ha                                        1,206      2.40       2,894        1206        2,894
Brackish water (LS)        ha                                        1,332      5.25       6,993        1332        6,993
Marine cages               ea                                        8,000    0.146        1,168        8000        1,168
Agriculture
Fruit
Maoming Litchi (new)    ha                                           1,000       7.2       7,200        1000        7,200
Meoming Litchi (imp)    ha           4,667          4    18,668    4,667         7.2      33,602           0       14,934
Maoming Longan (new)    ha                                             600         15      9,000         600        9,000
Maoming Longan (imp)    ha             330        6.6      2,178       330         15      4,950           0        2,772
Meizhou Longan (new)    ha                                             550         15      8,250         550        8,250
Meizhou Longan (imp)    ha             850        6.6      5,610       850         15     12,750           0        7,140
Meizhou PomeLo (imp)    ha           2,000        9.6    19,200    2,000    20.25         40,500           0       21,300
G'zhou Litchi (new)        ha                                        1,130       7.2       8,136        1130        8,136
G'zhou Litchi (imp)        ha        2,850          4    11,400    2,850         7.2      20,520           0        9,120
Sugarcane/Vegetables
Panyu - new reclam         ha                                        2,927       120    351,240        2,927      351,240
Panyu - improvement        ha        1,539      67.5   103,883    1,539          120    184,680            0       80,798
Panyu vegetables         ha                                        1,474      22.5      33,160      1,474        33,160
Modaomen - Bailonghe    ha                                             514      97.5      50,115         514       50,115
Modaomen - Sanzaowan /a ha             528          0          0       528      97.5      51,480           0       51,480
Modaomen - Sanzaowan /b ha             937         80    74,960        937      97.5      91,358           0       16,398
Modaomen vegetables   ha                                             65!      22.5      14,694         653       14,694
Subtotat - Sugarcane                                                                                   3,44       550,030
Subtotal - Vegetables                                                                                  2,127       47,854
/a Area not presently in production
/b Area benefitting from improvement



- 38 -
A. Fisheries
Marine Fishery
5,2         Introduction of modern fishing vessels with improved deck equipment
and support facilities, as well as improved production handling facilities at
ports, would increase productivity of the marine fisheries. The annual catches
from these vessels would reach about 55,600 t. The main species to be captured
are hairtail, cuttlefish, mackerel, file fish, golden thread and yellow croaker;
19 major species comprise about 50% of total catch (Annex 2). Purse seiniag is
used for catching pelagic fish, which shoal in large volumes and are captured in
a surrounding net. Powerful lights, placed on board an ancillary craft, are used
to attract the shoal, after which the purse seine net is released and the shoal
enclosed and taken aboard; average output has been based on assumptions of 162
fishing days per year, casting nets 3-4 times per night, an average haul of 0.9 t
and average output of 3.0 t per fishing day. Trawling for demersal species is
the prevailing practice in Guangdong as elsewhere in China. Traditional practice
is for two vessels to work together--pair trawling; the average output has been
based on assumptions of 202 fishing days, casting nets five times per day, with
an average output of 1.3 t per haul.   Assumptions for the steel refrigerated
trawler, working independently, are for 228 fishing days, casting nets four times
per day, with an average output of 0.8 t per haul.
Aguaculture
5.3         Brackish Water Ponds - From a management point of view, ponds are
divided into high and low salinity. High salinity ponds would generally produce
yellow fin porgy and grey mullet. Culture is essentially a two-step operation,
starting from stocking of nursery ponds in December with 1.5 cm fries at a
density of 550,000/ha porgy and 195,000/ha grey mullet. After about 100 days,
the fry would reach a size of about 5 cm with about 40% survival. In the second
step, fingerlings are grown in larger production ponds at a density of 7,500/ha
porgy and 2,250/ha grey mullet for a duration of eight to fourteen months to
market size of at least 250 gm and 500 gm, respectively.  During the nursery
phase, fry are fed a fish paste made by homogenating trash fish with a blender.
During the grow-out period, the fish are fed chunks of trashfish, supplemented by
compound feed. At full development in the third year, production levels would
reach 1.5 t/ha of porgy and 0.9 t/ha of grey mullet. It is also envisaged that
some ponds would cultivate giant perch and Japanese sea bass, in a similar
manner.
5.4         The low salinity (<9%) ponds would accommodate the entire complement
of primary freshwater fishes cultured in Guangdong (grass carp, bighead, silver
carp, common carp, mud carp, goldfish, pacu, large mouth bass), some secondary
freshwater fishes (tilapia, Japanese eel) and some euryhaline (adaptable to a
wide range of salinity levels) marine species such as yellowfin porgy, grey
mullet and the giant perch. The primary criteria used for selection of species
would be trophic balance, existing fish price and market demand. In Guangdong,
grass carp from low salinity ponds tend to have a superior meat texture and
flavor, and thus command a higher price in the local market. When grass carp is
included in the ponds, elephant grass would be planted on the dikes and an
additional 0.3 ha of surrounding land would have to be dedicated to grass
production. Culture practices would be similar to the freshwater fishes. The
inclusion of silver carp and bighead in the system is for harvesting the product
of autotrophic end heterotropic production fueled by the fecal waste of grass



- 39 -
carp. Grey mullet is omnivorous, playing very much the same role as the common
carp in a typical Chinese freshwater fish pond. The large mouth bass and giant
perch are piscivorous and the yellowfin porgy is also predatory to some extent,
thus all three would require trashfish as feed.
5.5         Marine Cages - The primary species to be cultured in cages would be
red porgy, Japanese sea bass, giant perch, groupers and yellowtail in basically
monoculture systems. As an example, the following briefly describes yellowtail
culture.  Fingerlings, from the wild, are stocked in March/April at a density of
2,000/cage and grown for about one year to the size of 2 kg. During this time,
the fish would be thinned and graded from eight to ten times on the basis of
size. Being carnivorous species, grading is necessary to reduce cannibalism.
The fish are fed a trashfish paste during the early stages, gradually shifting to
trashfish chunks and eventually whole fish. Survival from stock to harvest is
about 40%.   Other species are raised in a similar manner.  Yields are expected
to be about 225 kg/cage, and each participating household would have 20 cages.
5.6         Freshwater Cages - The cages are essentially for grass carp
monoculture, with a few bighead to consume planktonic food organisms within the
cages. Feed would be mainly pelletized feed and cut grass. Yields are expected
to be about 750 kg/cage, equivalent to 13.6 kg/m3. Each household would have 10
cages.
5.7         Freshwater Ponds - Production would be carried out using the
traditional Chinese polyculture stocking (grass carp, bighead, silver carp, mud
carp, common carp and tilapia), supplemented with pacu and large mouth bass.
Ponds would be in pairs of a one ha production pond and 0.2 ha nursery pond for
each participating family. Elephant grass would be grown on the pond dikes;
heterotrophic production would be enhanced through manuring, and additional
nutrient input would come from artificial feeding.
5.8         Oysters - Oysters are filter feeding bivalves near the base of the
food chain, converting plankton and suspended organic particles into oyster meat.
Thus, oyster culture does not involve artificial feeding, depending instead on
the natural produution in the aquatic environment as a nutrient source. The areas
are free from the threats of typhoon, red tide, heavy precipitation and
industrial pollution. Yields are expected to reach 6 t/ha (oyster meat) for a
three year production cycle. Each worker would have 2 ha of production area.
5.9         Shrimp - The project area has very favorable conditions for shrimp
production, allowing two crops per year--a spring crop of Penaeus chinensis from
February to May and a summer crop of Penaeus merquiensis from May to September.
The species sequence allows early production of the heat-sensitive P. chinensis
and later production of the tropic P. merquiensis. The combined yields of two
crops are expected to reach 3.15 t/ha. Each household would have 1 ha of
production area.
B. Agriculture
5.10         Under the project the output of fru.-.t, sugar cane and vegetables
would increase substantially due to a significant increase in crop yields and a
moderate increase in planted area.   Major factors contributing to higher crop
yields would be the increased provision of good quality inputs and strengthened
programs of adaptive research, extension and training. In the case of fruit
crops, higher standards of orchard management, including soil and water



- 40 -
conservation, greater use of fertilizer and pesticides, and better harvesting and
post-harvesting practices would ensure higher yields of good quality marketable
fruit. Increased yields of sugar cane coupled with high yields of intercropped
vegetables would be made possible largely by provision of improved drainage,
flood protection and supplementary irrigation together with an adequate supply of
agricultural inputs.
5.11         Litchi. longan and Romelo - All three varieties of fruit usually
start bearing in the fifth year with yields gradually increasing to full
production at 15 years. Yields of unimproved orchards (two years old) would at
15 years average 4 t/ha, 6.6 t/ha and 9.6 t/ha for litchi, longan and pomelo,
respectively. With improvements introduced under the project, the corresponding
yields at full development would be 7.2 t/ha, 15 t/ha and 20.25 t/ha,
respectively. The area, yields and production at full development for new and
improved orchards are shown in Table 5.1.
5.12        Sugarcane - With the project, it is expected that yields of sugarcane
would increase from 67.5 to 97.5 t/ha in Modaomen and to 120 t/ha in Jiaomen.
The difference in the expected yields of the two project areas is mainly due to
different salinity and soil conditions. At full development, annual incremental
sugarcane production is expected to be 5r0,800 t. This includes incremental
production of 16,400 t from 937 ha contiguous with the Modaomen project area
which would benefit from project works providing flood protection, improved
drainage and reduced salinity. The average holding of sugarcane is about 1 ha
per household. Production of intercropped vegetables (chili peppers, white gourd
and head cabbage) would be about 53,000 t.
C. Agroindustrv
5.13        The project would establish six new plants and expand and/or
diversify seven. With the expected increase in fruit production, the two fruit
and vegetable freezing plants in Guangzhou and Shenzhen would process 6,000 t of
frozen vegetables and fruit; two fruit drying plants in Maoming and Meizhou
(separate entities) would dry 28,000 t of fruit, mainly longan and litchi; one
candied fruit plant would produce 1,000 t of preserved fruit and jams; and a
natural fruit drink factory in Shenzhen would produce 10,000 t of natural fruit
juice drink. An existing fish cannery in Zhuhai would increase its production by
1,500 t, 50% of which is expected to be exported. The yogurt drink plant in
Shenzhen would expand its production by 7,000 t packed in glass and plastic
bottles. The project would also produce 5,000 t of feed additives, 3,000 t of
bowl and bagged instant noodles, 20 t of spirulina algae-based natural health
food products, and 700 t of industrial perfume products. This component not only
provides additional processing capacity for project products, but also provides
for establishment/expansion of production facilities for new products for which
market demand has been established either domestically or abroad.



- 41 -
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Market Proisects
6.1         General Overview - The market prospects for the project's incremental
outputs are favorable, and the project aims to promote high standards of product
quality by focussing on post-haxvest handling, storage, packaging and
distribution of fruits, improving handling of fish (both on-board and on-shore),
and developing cost- and energy-efficient, hygienic, and environmentally sound
technology for the agroindustrial output.
Domestic Markets
6.2         Owing to higher per capita incomes in recent years, the Chinese diet
has shifted from total reliance on table grains and low-quality vegetables to
increased quantities of meat and fish and a diverse array of fruits and high
quality vegetables. Fruit has one of the highest income elasticities of demand
(2.0 for urban and 2.5 for rural consumers) followed by poultry, dairy products
and fish, all of which have elasticities higher than 1.5. Consequently, with
incomes expected to increase at an annual rate of about 6% in real terms during
the eighth Five Year Plan (1991-1995), demand for fish and fruit can also be
expected to increase. Guangdong has a regional advantage, based on a favorable
climate, soils and water resources, which permits year-round production of a wide
range of crops and aquatic products and can expect to continue to play a
significant role in filling the demand for these commodities.
6.3         Fisheries - Guangdong is the largest producer, as well as the largBst
consumer of fish in China. About 90% of the capture fish would be sold in
domestic markets, both in Guangdong and northern provinces. Incremental
production represents a 5% increase over the present level. Marketing of
freshwater species would not present a problem as the market for these varieties
is large and still growing. The project production of about 7,000 t of
freshwater fish would represent a 1% increment over present production.
Guangdong's per capita consumption is estimated to be around 30 kg--about three
times higher than the national average. However, in the interior regions of
Guangdong, the level of fish consumption still lingers around 10 kg with demand
far exceeding supply. Shrimp would be marketed live, mostly to Shenzhen and
Guangzhou; a transport network complete with road-side stations selling fresh
seawater has already evolved for this purpose. The incremental production due to
the project is small (about 1,000 t) and would represent a 10% increment over the
province's present production (9,350 t), but only about 0.5% over the national
production level (200,000 t). Oystars are marketed in dried or processed form,
with a by-product of the processing being "oyster sauce", a popular condiment in
Chinese cuisine.
6.4         Fruit - Short mild winters in Guangdong enable producers to bring
ripe fruit to market earlier than in the adjacent fruit producing provinces. By
combining early-, mid- and late maturing varieties, production would extend over
a longer period and the placement of temperature controlled warehouses in the
production areas would extend marketability over an even longer period. Thus
far, pomelo has been consumed mainly in local markets with small quantities being
sold in the northern provinces of China on a trial basis. Outside the production
areas and the major Guangdong cities, the relative scarcity of these fruits has
resulted in these products being considered as gift items--a luxury good.
Pomelo, harvested in late autumn, has a hard thick rind which allows on-farm



- 42 -
storage for about six months. Litchi, once harvested, has a short shelf life of
2-4 weeks, but with ripening periods for different varieties lasting from late
May to mid August, market gluts of a highly perishable fruit will be avoided.
With higher incomes and improved transport facilities to northern areas, which
are expected by the time the project reaches full development, domestic market
prospects are promising.
6.5         Sugarcane - China imports about 2 million t of sugar annually--
equivalent to 30% of domestic requirements. Guangdong is the largest sugarcane
producer in China with 35% of national production in 1989. The project's
incremental sugarcane production of 550,000 t would be processed into 61,000 t of
refined sugar. There are 11 sugar refineries in Jiaomen and Modaomen, with a
total design processing capacity of 4.4 million t of cane, but they are only
utilizing about 62% of capacity.
Export Market
6.6         While aiming to fill the gap created by growing domestic demand, the
project entities would also promote exports (fish, litchi, longan, and pomelo)
and efficient import substitution (feed additives, instant noodles) whenever
potentials exist. Exports of the project commodities have been growing fast as
international demands continue to be robust. Good export potentials would
continue to exist for China provided that low cost and high quality are
maintained. The official devaluation from Y3.71 to Y4.71/$ in December 1989
helped to reduce export biases created by the overvalued currency; this has
already demonstrated its impact on export growth as total exports during 1990
showed a 18.1% increase over 1989.   The further devaluation to Y5.22/$ in
November 1990 can be expected to show similar results in 1991. Hong Kong still
remains the largest trading partner, but trade with Taiwan Province and Korea has
been increasing more rapidly with exports growing at 224% and 126%, respectively,
during the first 8 months of 1990.
6.7         Fisheries - About 10% of the fisheries products from the marine
fisheries component--high value items such as croakers, pomfret, squid,
cuttlefish, groupers, shrimp and eels--are intended for export to Hong Kong,
which has been not only Guangdong's main market but also the main hub for re-
export to other countries. Hong Kong accounts for more than 70% of Guangdong's
total fisheries exports. Guangdong has a regional advantage over Hong Kong in
marine cage culture because of cleaner water and cheaper production costs (labor,
fingerlings and feed). Yellowtail (from the marine net cages) would be exported
to Japan for use as "Sashimi" after processing to buyer's requirements (killed,
drained of blood, and iced) and flown directly to Japan by the buyer.
Competition for the Hong Kong live fish market can be expected from other
southeast Asian producers, and while Guangdong has the advantage of proximity and
cultural affinity, if the Hong Kong market were to become constrained, Guangdong
and other parts of China could easily absorb the total project production.
6.8         Fruit - Fruit is a major export item for Guangdong and all project
fruits are currently exported. About 10% of litchi production in Guangdong was
exported in 1989, and its share and quantity are on the rise. A small quantity
(680 t) of pomelo was exported and in order to expand export, market development
would receive a high priority. Longan is presently being exported (about 1,000 t
of dried fruit) to Hong Kong, Macao and southeast Asian countries. Guangdong
faces strong competition from Taiwan province in the litchi market; Taiwan
province was the largest supplier of litchi to Hong Kong with 3,288 t in 1989



- 43 -
compared to China's (the second largest supplier) export of 2,542 t. In
addition, Thailand is rapidly becoming a more important exporter of a wide
variety of fruits including litchi and even Australia began to export fresh
litchi during the 1989 winter season (in the northern hemisphere). All these
countries use modern packaging methods (in contrast to Cuangdong's wicker
baskets) and deliver a consistently high quality product to the market. Under
the project, technical assistance would be provided in packaging and marketing to
help develop the export market potential for fruit.
6.9         Guangdong litchi comes into production in late May and fills the
market niche between Thai litchi in April and other major suppliers, (Taiwan and
the rest of China) product in June/July. Importers in Hong Kong have expressed a
preference for Cuangdong litchi due to the smaller seed and the freshness of the
product. Success in developing a high volume of litchi exports from Guangdong
would depend on achieving high product quality and appropriate packaging,
handling and transportation to avoid oxidation and over-ripening (which causes
darkening). Commercial production of frozen litchi is still at an early stage of
development, but efforts in this direction are taking place in major fruit and
vegetable freezing plants in Guangzhou and will continue in the project entities-
-Guangzhou and Shenzhen fruit and vegetable freezing plants.
6.10        Preocssed Products - The agroprocessing units financed under the
project would produce substantial quantities of various products, a large part of
which would be exported. Canned fish is already being exported to Hong Kong,
Macao, Singapore, Canada, U.S. and Chile, and yoghurt drinks to Hong Kong,
Singapore and Thailand. A very small quantity of canned fish from China is re-
exported from Hong Kong to ethnic Chinese communities throughout the world. It
is this specialty market which the Zhuhai cannery intends to exploit with the
expanded production under the project. Frozen fruit and vegetables to be
produced under the project would mostly be exported to Hong Kong, Singapore and
Canada.
B. Marketing Channell
6.11        Guangdong province is the pioneer in price and market liberalization
in China. With the exception of sugarcane, all of the project's outputs are
traded in free markets. Free market trading has become increasingly important
over the last decade in response to price deregulation and lifting of quotas and
restrictions on long-distance trade. Nationwide, the number of free markets more
than doubled since the introduction of the reforms in'1979 and the value of farm
products sold in these markets increased more than six fold.
6.12        Fish - In Guangdong, about 70% of aquatic products are traded by
independent county level companies, 20% by fishermen and private middlemen, and
10% through municipal and provincial corporations. Increasingly, collectives and
private traders, with lower overhead, are competing with state trading
corporations to provide marketing services at a lower cost, resulting in
declining profits for the state enterprises.   The average gross margin for
trading companies varies between 8-10% with net margins of 3-5%. The margin for
exported goods is said to be usually higher, averaging about 12%. Guangdong
consumers prefer to purchase live shrimp and fish, and these products are
transported in tanks to wholesale markets. Usually within 14 hours of harvest,
fresh aquatic products are available in the markets. For frozen products, fresh
raw materials are normally frozen within three hours from harvest to retain
maximum quality. A distribution network already exists for cage production with



- 44 -
operators using CB radios to communicate with boats in the vicinity to arrange
delivery of fingerlings and trashfish and sale of marketable fish. Hong Kong is
currently the largest market for marine fish products from Guangdong Province.
In 1988, Guangdong's total marine fishery exports were approximately $170
million, two-thirds of which were sold to or through Hong Kong. Although some
shipments are made by sea, the bulk of the exports are sent by refrigerated
trucks. Hong Kong re-exports about 17% of its marine fishery imports, mostly to
the U.S. and Thailand, consuming the remainder itself.
6.13        Fruits - From the farm level, fruits produced under the project would
be marketed to nrivate vendors, institutional buyers, and municipal and county
level FDCs. The FDCs would have first rights to purchase about 30% of production
(to insure cost recovery for capital investment and inputs); they would arrange
for farm pick up, grading, packing and transportation to distributors, major
wholesale markets, and foreign trade corporations. Farmer-organized collectives
are playing an increasing role in trade of fruits and vegetables for shipping by
road and rail to Beijing and northern provinces with the share of the state
sector declining. The average margin for fruit traders is around 15%.   In
general, it takes about 12 hours from harvest to delivery to market within the
province. The project would facilitate transport by provision of regular and
refrigerated trucks for distribution of perishable products.
6.14        In China, most foreign trade is monopolized by several centralized
foreign trade corporations (FTCs) organized along product lines. The FTCs are
regulated by the trade policies and supervised by the Ministry of Foreign
Economic Relations and Trade (MOFERT) and at the provincial level, Foreign Trade
Bureaus (FTBs). Until recently, the national-level FTCs such as the Cereals,
Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation (CEROILS) and its city and
provincial branches directly conducted all trading activities ranging from the
identification of markets, the negotiation of prices and contracts to the
procurement of goods from producers and shipments to buyers. In 1988, and again
in 1989, more authority was delegated to selected provinces to manage export
marketing directly. These changes allowed more flexible trade regimes, allocated
more foreign exchange to exporting provinces, and improved export and import
marketing organizations geared towards local needs. This led to proliferation of
local trading houses who also have direct contact with producers and foreign
buyers, thus facilitating quicker responses to changing market demand. ruangdong
is represented in Hong Kong by Guangdong Enterprises Holdings Ltd., a branch of
the FTC with about 15 subsidiary companies which specialize in trading various
goods from Guangdong. The major provincial and municipal marketing organizations
deal directly with Guangdong Enterprises, bypassing Hong Kong wholesalers.
C. Prices
6.15        China's Agricultural Price Policy - Since the reforms were introduced
in 1979, the main focus has been on: (a) adjusting procurement prices for goods
marketed through the state-run system; and (b) reducing the volume and number of
goods subject to state monopoly purchase. The Government has also encouraged
market oriented trading with gLadual price decontrol of fruits, vegetables,
livestock products, and a range of other important food commodities. In
response, the prices of these products rose 20 to 40% in the first half of the
1980s, and the bulk of them are now being traded on the free market.
Notwithstanding this success, price liberalization had some disturbing side
effects--rising inflation, sharp supply and price fluctuations, and increasing
state budgetary expenditure on food subsidies. These adverse effects, which were



- 45 -
blamed on price reforms, led to the Government's announcement in late 1988 that
further price reforms would be deferred until 1990 and state administrative
controls on outputs and inputs, marketing and distribution of certain products
(particularly grain, oil seeds, and cotton) have been reinforced. Guangdong
Province is one of the most commercially oriented provinces and most of the
commodities are traded in free markets.
6.16        The domestic price of refined sugar is substantially higher than the
international price reflecting both the general shortage of sugar in China and
the inefficiency due to outdated technology of the domestic sugar refining
industry. Sugar mills presently suffer from shortage of sugarcane and sugar
beets. In China, the government procures almost 100% of sugarcane produced by
farmers; most of the raw material production bases, as would be the case for the
project areas, are directly linked to specific sugar mills as sole purchaser of
sugarcane. Farmers will sell their output to these mills at pre-determined
prices, Y130 and Y176 per t of cane in Modaomen and Panyu, respectively, The
provincial average procurement price of sugarcane in 1990 was Y140/t. The
sugarcane procurement price is location specific and determined by the local
government.   While the domestic price of final refined sugar is Y2,500/t or 22%
higher than the present international price of Y2,042/t, the farm gate price for
cane at Modaomen (Y130/t) is lower than the farm gate price derived from the
international price (Y159/t) based on standard milling and refining parameters.
Cane purchase prices have, therefore, partially subsidized inefficiencies in
processing ard reduced farmer incentives, resulting in stagnating production in
recent years. With the persisting sugar shortage, the Central Government is
currently considering increasing sugarcane procurement prices to increase
farmers, incentives.
VII. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.1         The major benefits of the project are increases in production, rural
incomes and employment, and improvements in marketing and enterprise management.
The project would bring into productive agricultural use some 3,280 ha of hilly
land previously idle and about 3,440 ha reclaimed from the Pearl River, in
addition to increasing the productivity on 10,700 ha of hilly land and 3,000 ha
of previously reclaimed land. Also, the project would develop some 3,700 ha of
fish ponds on low-lying land unsuitable for agriculture. At full development,
the annual incremental net value of production would be Y534.3 million (Y91.0
million from aquaculture, Y251.5 million from orchard development, Y68.0 million
from sugarcane and intercropped vegetables, Y57.6 from marine fisheries, and
Y58.5 million from agroindustries).
B. EmDlovment
7.2         Employment opportunities generated by the project would help reduce
the existing seasonal unemployment and underemployment among the rural labor
force in and around the project areas. The project would improve living
standards and income levels for some 4,500 households through the aquaculture
activities, nearly 60,800 households In orchard development, and 6,400 households
in the land reclamation areas. The project would generate about 7.2 million
incremental workdays, equivalent to 24,000 full time jobs. In particular,
additional employment would be created in remote mountainous areas where
alternative job opportunities are limited and living standards are poor.



- 46 -
7.3         Farm models have been prepared for typical holdings in the orchard
and sugar cane areas (i.x).  At the lower end of the scale are fruit farmers
in the Meizhou area whose holdings are scheduled for improvement. Generally,
they have foregone other employment, when it was available, to plant and maintain
their orchards which have not yet come into bearing. These families typically
have incomes of about Y600 and have borrowed heavily from formal and informal
sources of credit to finance inputs and living expenses. At full development,
these families are expected to have household incomes of about Y10,750 per annum.
At the upper end of the scale, per capita incomes in the land reclamation areas
in the Pearl River Delta are at present in the range of Yl,100 to Y1,400 and with
the project, total household income for a 1.0 ha holding in the improvement area
would increase from Y5,100 to Y14,850 at full development. This increase would
be achieved through higher yields and the introduction of vegetable
intercropping.
C. Financial and Economic Analyses
7.4         Financial analysis has been carried out for all the components.  Cash
flows after debt service are strong, in general, reflecting the careful sub-
project selection procedures, which included among others, enterprise and
management appraisal. For the cases where cash flow after financing is negative
for the first year or two, attention was directed to insuring that investors have
other sources of income Lo minimize financial hardships and also to reduce the
risk of loan default. Relatively lower FRRs of the land reclamation component
reflect the high initial construction cost, particularly of new areas. Operation
of marine vessels is very sensitive to changes in prices or capture levels, which
is inherent in this type of operation. FRRs for agroprocessing are very
sensitive to reductions in revenue; this is to be expected with low margin
processing activities. Normally, a drop in sales prices would be followed by a
drop in raw material purchase prices, thus protecting margins and profitability.
Financial rates for different components vary between 13% (land reclamation) to
47% (marine net cage). The overall project FRR is 25%.
7.5         The economic analysis has been carried out using 1991 constant
prices. All investment costs including physical contingencies have been
included. The World Bank commodity price projections were used for all the
applicable commodities. When Bank projections were not available, the most
recent official statistics on actual import and export prices realized by China
have been used and assumed to remain constant in real terms. The official
exchange rate of Y5.22 per US$ has been used, and all non-tradeable inputs and
outputs have been adjusted using specific conversion factors. ERRs for selected
sub-projects range between 15% and 52% with an overall project ERR of 28%.
Details are given in Annexes 9 and 11.
D. Proiect Risks
7.6         The project faces no unusual technical or organizational risks.
Project management would be strengthened under the project. The ma:;.n components
of the project have a long history of cultivation and operation, and farmers and
fishermen already have experience and basic knowledge. The potential marketing
risk for the fruit component would be alleviated through provision of technical
assistance to develop improved packaging and handling procedures. The risk of
overfishing and subsequent resource depletion of the province's marine fisheries
would be reduced by development of a fisheries management plan and phasing of
vessel procurement, contingent on resource surveys, implementation of a



- 47 -
monitoring program, and financially viable operation of vessels procured in the
previous lot. Where technical risk has been identified in the agroindustry
component, foreign consultants would be engaged for review of designs and on-site
management training and investments would be phased in a two-stage program, with
the second phase conditional on achieving full operating capacity.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1          At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Guangdong Province
that:
(a)   under arrangements satisfactory to IDA, the vessel retirement
plan would be implemented and employment would be provided for
the displaced crews (para 3.4);
(b)   (i) an annual marine resource survey would be carried out using
hydroacoustic gear, and the survey results would be used to prepare a
fisheries resource assessment by December 31, 1992 and for updating
such resource assessments annually thereafter; (ii) on the basis of
the survey, resource assessment, and log,book monitoring program, a
Fisheries Management Plan, including a measurable definition of
overfishing, would be prepared and furnished to IDA for review and
comment by June 30, 1993 and implemented thereafter; and (iii)
phasing of procurement, after the first procurement of 46 vessels,
would be contingent on IDA's approval on the basis of resource
assessments and the proven financial viability of previously procured
vessels already in operation (para 3.9);
(c)   existing sea dikes at Haifeng, Lufeng and Chenghai would be
maintained in accordance with appropriate engineering standards (para
3.20);
(d)   tha municipal EPBs would approve final designs of effluent treatment
facilities of each agroindustry facility prior to beginning
construction and maintain an effluent monitoring system and that all
effluent from agroindustries would be adequately treated before
disposal (para 3.29);
(e)   before proceeding with expansion of the Guangzhou Frozen Fruit and
Vegetable Plant (Stage II), a feasibility study would be provided,
acceptable to IDA showing profitable operation and full capacity
utilization of the first phase and export potential for additional
production (para 3.30);
(f)   (i) subloans under the Limestone Mountains Poverty Alleviation
component would be appraised and approved by a financial intermediary
acceptable to IDA, applying guidelines agreed by the provincial
Leading Group For Poor Areas Development and acceptable to IDA, and
made on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, including interest
equivalent to prevailing ABC terms (para 3.31);
(g)   Qingyuan municipality would be required to submit, through the PHO,
an approved detailed implementation program to IDA for review not
later than June 30, 1992;



- 48 -
(h)   training, study tours and research would be carried out in accordance
with a program agreed with IDA (para 3.33);
(i)   the PM0 would maintain the consolidated accounts for auditing
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of
each financial year (para 3.49)
(j)   the Environmental Action Plan as agreed with IDA would be implemented
and project activities would comply with the guidelines and
regulations issued by NEPA and the Guangdong EPB, acceptable to IDA
(para 3.50);
(k)   pesticides to be provided under the project would be approved by IDA
and that Bank-group guidelines on storage, handling, distribution and
use would be followed (para 3.53);
(1)   PLGs at the provincial, municipal and county levels would be
maintained with composition and responsibilities acceptable to IDA
(para 4.2);
(m)   the PM0 at the provincial level and POs under the provincial BAP and
BA and at each municipal and county level would be maintained with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA and staffed with
competent staff in adequate numbers (para 4.4);
(n)   the BAP would develop the vessel maintenance and service schedules
for each type of vessel promptly after the first delivery of fishing
vessels and would furnish these schedules to IDA for review and
comment (para 4.7);
(o)   operational guidelines acceptable to IDA would apply to all newly
established agroindustrial enterprises and, to the extent possible,
to existing ones, including that enterprises would maintain a debt-
equity ratio no greater than 5:1 at all times (para 4.11)
(p)   (i) arrangements acceptable to IDA would be made with ABC and a
financial intermediary for incorporating onlending procedures; and
(ii) revolving funds would be established at ABC branches, and loans
from the revolving funds would also bear interest at a rate no less
than ABC's prevailing rates at similar terms for similar purposes
(para 4.12);
(q)   after recovery of the investment costs of fishing vessels, ownership
would be transferred to the fishermen who have contracted the boats
and repaid the investment cost (para 4.14);
(r)   (i) a monitoring system would be instituted to insure that raising of
seadikes is carried out as soon as settlement has occurred; and (ii)
during implementation, the technical quality of construction, as well
as the adequacy of monitoring procedures, would be examined and
evaluated periodically by independent authorities (para 4.15); and
(s)   the PMO would furnish a detailed work plan and report on the schedule
and financing arrangements of works to IDA annually for review by



- 49 -
December 15 of each year for works to be carried out in the next
calendar year (para 4.15);
8.2         At negotiations, assurances were obtained from China that proceeds of
the IDA Credit would be onlent to Guangdong Province on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
8.3         Understandings were reached that:
(a)   further expansion of marine cages would not be undertaken at project
sites before satisfying IDA that the carrying capacities of the
protected areas are adequate for such expansion (para 3.14);
(b)   at least 20% of the farmer technicians and 50% of the farmer trainees
in the agriculture component would be women (para 3.36);
(c)   specific items under Categories 1 and 2 (goods and works) would be
eligible for retroactive financing provided the procurement
procedures are acceptable to IDA (para 3.48); and
(d)   maintenance standards of individual aquaculture facilities would be
incorporated into contracts between management entities and
participating households or operators (para 4.8).
8.4         A condition of disbursement for the Limestone Mountain Poverty
Alleviation component would be acceptance by IDA of the implementation program
(para 3.32).
8.5         A condition of effectiveness would be State Council approval of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) (para 4.13).
8.6         Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 121.7 million (US$162
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity to the People's
Republic of China.



CHINA
CUANMOM ACRICLUnRAL DEVELORiW PROJECT
--- ------------------------------------
Basic Provincial and Project Area Statistics
-------------------------------------------
--------------------- - ---------------- ---- -------- - - - -    --------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I        I               I                                                              Project Area
I        I Guangdong   ------- ------------------------------- I--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
11too            Mit       Prcinco       Cuangxhm              Project Counties    I  Maoming    I Counties             me, zh     I         Project Counties I Qingyusn  I Zhuhn;   District
114unicipality                                  M-n-ciPalitY I -------------        city      I------------------------- I   C,ty    I  Ci ty    -----------
I  Panyu    lLitchi Count;esl                  I L;tch; Area I                 lPomelo A,ea ILongan Area I              I    a/    I San=o
--------------------- - - I--------                                              I------ - ------- I-------------- I------------- I-------------- I------------ I------------ I----------- I---------- I-----------
I                                       I             I                 I               I              I               I             I              I            I          I
Total land ares             km          290.000          7.434          1.314            4.759       1,145.933        396,105        1.583,570       724.200 1    479.5aS 1    29,002         2.266          215
Total m,pble land                                                                                      2114.427        63,749                        242.636 1      26,204 1
Total clt-ated area         ha        2,524.673        162.8=          50,620           82.199         175.693           60732         141,833        66,394        49.584      185,933      45.798        3,077
Irrigated area              he        1.693,647        150,500        50.610            49,520         243,626         48,955           12,078        48,004        36.935      128.733 1  35.256            20D
Dry lend                    ha          614.940          19,215         4.892           11.726         893.400        308,123                         39.524        i4,728       57,200 1   2.6g]            520
Population.                                                                                                                                                                              I
Total             I 1.000           60.250          5,W4            752             1.754           4,962          1,750       4,250,541    1,973,343    1,571,255          3.297         486         28.4
Agric.lt.ral          I 1,000          45,464          2.492           566             1,350           4.299          1,526       3,636,400    2,658.592    3,369,408           2.800         285         24.4
Form labor            I 1.000          22,978            940            295              674           2,650            904       I.,54B,808      707,72a       455.251         i.292         124         12.3
Families                 No.        9,718.017      1,564.202       198,292          344.072        1.065,249        368,226         763,911       370,500       a32,849       550.000 1  57,847 1         5556
Cnt,;Q.                 No.               73               5                                              5I              5I              8I                                       a 1         61
Tconships                No             1,457             82            22                               204             32              164            76            S4          137          26            3
Vi I Ing"                "D.           25.8W          22,629         2,400             7.718          22,189          7,670           3.088            981           741        1.468         172           le
Production area           ha        S.UB.473         162.8=         50.610            82,199                                        406,736       424,S97        89,977       428,743
Crain area                ha        3.178,680        226,997        58,226           107,990         325,393        102,476         252,876        81.668         87,899      227,238     32.659         1,267
Cash crop area            ha          883.253                                                        624, We 1      142,468 1       156,860 1      43,892 1       39,292 1    73,050 1   11,764 I
of which:                                                                                                   I              I               I             I             I            I           I
Sugarcane            he          258,680          17.3545       14,878            1,222            9.492          2,807          1138.6         1.023           788        5,249      17,640        1.200
Fruit                ha      639.466.367          43.18D         5.9"            29,967          68,622          23,720          67.996        32,282        22,284       23.931       7,270          700
Forest area          ha          587.727        207,419          4.249          132.422         533,333         108,468                       473,472       266,775      478.380 1                  9.000
Fish pond            ha          247.660           8,090         1.951            3,721            6,000          2,327           3.774         2.821         2.104       22.748       3,670          1153
Others                                                                                             7,360          2.420
Productim
Crain                    Ym        28.172.200      1.179.5`76      350,082          586,289        1.504.900        487.785       1.271,423       277,430       455.961   1.234.981    162,887         16.000
Sugarcane                Ton       16.813,40D      1.741.867    1.552,126             79.650         466.260        132.865         863,002.1    251.123 1    244,121 1  277.864 11.374,205            99.000
Fr.it                    Ton        2.758.3DO        2B7.489        93.714           126.M           293.470        101,442          94,761        21,502        25,446       41.607      26,323        6. SW
Forest                   n            687.727        108.162           771           74.43B           94.00D         19, im                        23.025        75.205      2si.900       4,700
AQuatic products         Ton        1.997.500         79,788 1      33.651 1          3S.OB4 1       ISD.676 1       33,176          18,812         4.831         6.00.- 1    20.100 1  45,920          3.350
Mors                                                                                                  59.242         19'.-98
TOUI agric  value    Y'ODO         54.660.OOD      4.105.750    1.142.190         2,031.280          322.705        107.372       2.095,830       843,640        42.852   1.146.250 1 8M.370
cyf which:                                                                                                                                                                          I
Crain              Y'000       9.W9,000          758.020       226,8W           353,960          43,888          14.594         553,33D       130,487        22.550                   10.420        9.520
cast, crops        Y'ODO                                                                         76,464          23,472         154.250        32.621         2.240
Sugarcane          Y-000         794.875      4.105.750    1.142.190          1.576,240           4.166           2,232           7,416         3.228            95                   27,664       13.400
Fmit             I Y-000  1   2,072.051 1       405.913 1    105.600 1          193.140 1        30.789 1        10.643 1        99.760 1      22.320 1       1.455 1                 52,650 1      3.100
Forest             Y-000       2,800.000         33.840          5.490           24,160          20.519           4,793                        29,775         1.542      351.500 1   8.270 1          4SO
Fisheries          YIODD       6.285.000         149,06D        50.780           51,091          12.094           3,894          79,770         7.202         2,416       79.100    172,690         1.500
Others             Y-000                                                                          8,886           2,910
Oth.re                    Y-OW                                                                         192,363         69,305
Average not
income (rural)          ly/peraml           gm  1        1.346 1       1.441 1           1. LV  1          727 1          7061            678 1         601 1       1,086 1         662 1    1.096        1.098
---                         -- - -          --------------- - ----------- - -------------------------------------------------------- ------------- - -- ---
*/Land reclamation in            ores
Source: Ouvngdmg Provincial Cooornownt, January 1991.



CHINA
GUANGDONC AGRICULTURAL DEYELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Provincial and Project Area Statistics
Marine Fishery and Aquaculture Components
Items                       Unit    Guangdong       Huizhou    Jiangmen      Shantou      Shanwei    Zhaoqing        Zhuhai
Total population                                 no     60,249,800   2,187,400   3,464,300   8,536,100   2,176,400   5,337,815           486,300
FisheDry township                              no             e1            7            3           11            7            2            5
Fishery population                             no      1,197,518       20,746       30,770      174,884     144 057       43,081         8,330
Shallow sea beach area (5 m)                   ha        789,733       20,014      118,73O       40,967      265480                    124,440
Utilized area                                  h8 89,478                3,499       11,730       22,869       8,533                     66,819
Gross fish output                              t       1,897,472       41,560      173,585      209,412     1SS,900       66,324        45,920
of which:  Ocean capture output            t        1,013,212       22,233       80,201     152,992      135,702                     20,725
of which:  Freshwater capture output       t           77,348          408        4,014       3,494        1,376        2,487         1,256
Fresh with farming output                  t          725,425       1S,S86       77,759      31,SSO        4,558       63,837        17,688
Marine with farming ouput                  t          121,487        3,353       11,661      21,376       14,298                      6,262
Consumption per capita                     kg              32           19           s0           25          72           12            94   ''
Aqua products processing plant             no                            4           13          500          15            2             1
Production capacity                        t                         2,000        9,439      20,650       28,577          290         1,000
Fish hatchery and hursery                  no           1,205            7           28           26          25           18             7
Production capicity                      eaOOOO    2,793,689        16,000       56,600       7,535        6,000      250,000        13,800
Prawn hatchery and hursery                 no             168            6            2           54          15            2             6
Production capacity                      eaOOOO       631,385       30,000       11,700       1,865       57,000          400        19,625
Prawn and fish fee-d mill                  no                            1            2           25           2                          1
Production capacity                        t                         3,000       10,000      18,000        7,000                     10,000
Cross output value of social             Y'OOOO   28,411,500       222,000   2,155,000   2,104,500       328,800   1,687,620        675,000
Gross output value of agriculture        Y'OOOO    6,486,000       163,000      144,470     584,500      147,800      616,312        30,600
of which
Gross ouput value fisheries            Y'0000       605,919       24,930      56,041       81,300       38,088       24,389        16,658
Output value of marine capture         Y'OOOO       246,271       10,341      17,106       41,800       30,464                     6,420
Output value of freshwater             Y'OCOO        16,731          167       1,465          800          501          942           546
Marine with framing output value       Y'OOOO        71,883        6,551       9,299       14,900        5,489                      3,685
Fresh with framing output value        Y'OOOO       272,034        7,171      28,050       23,800        1,634       23,447         6,007
Per capita rural incore                     Y'OOO.           956          932          981          952          602         805         1,098
Source: Guangdong Provincial Government, January, 1991.
1\012
F3 



Agricultural Developmnt Project
Fruit Production in Guangdong Province 2nd Project Ar"s
(Unis  thousand tim. t1tousnd ha.)
TOTAL FWIT r                   LITatl                 L                    tN  1  10     P     i     RANt                   Ut"
Project         Planted Hrasst Total Planted hrvest Total  Planted Har,est TotaI Planted Harvst Tota I Plnted ialorvet Total .  Planted tUrI::t Tot..
Year    Area             Are       Area  Produ- iAra      Area  Pr duc Area       Area  Produc Area      Area  Prtd . jAra t    Ar     r      Ar-n      Ara  Pr.d,.
-ion       -ion  I                -ion~~~60               -ion                   -ion  I;, 
1986    Total Province       414    176  1983        o5      20    87        6       3   22         5       0     4      132       35   552      215      117  1S1
ltrzhou              28       7    48        1       0     1         1      0     2        5       0     4         5       1    13        1S       4   OTi
Cusngzhou            47      24  253         9       5    19         I      0     3        0       0    0         17       6    91        20      13  14CI
ibone                33      14  216         4       2     5         I       1    2        0       0    0          5       1    a         22      10  201l
196     Total Province       531    218  2641        79      20   75         9       4   22         8       1    5        174      45  720        281     149  I120 1
me  shou             58      12   71         3       1     1        2       0     2        8        1    5        14       3    19        30       8    45
Guangzhou            88      32   366       11       4    15        I       0     3        0       0    0        21        8   118        25      19  2271
Haom:ns              60      22   302        7       2    5         2       1    2         0       0     0        8        I    10        34      18  283
1988    Total Provine        628    251 2787         99      18   70        13       4   22         9       1    7       192      67  901        S15      161  1786
Neixheu              G8      16   94         4       0     2        3        1    2        9        1     7        9       2    21        43      11   62
Cuaspzhou            49      25   334       L3       4    10         I      0     3        0       0     0        15      a8  14          21      16  2071
t1o1nng              65      26   334        9       2    8         2        1    2        0       0    O         10       2    13        43      21   3111
1989    Total Province       647    267 2772        101      20   77        15       4    27        8       2    14      199      87  1096       325      135  1533 i
b;izhou              76      19   109        S       0     2        4       0    4         a       2    14        10       3    24        49      14   65
Quenpzhow            43      25  247        12       4    17         1      0    2         0       0              1 IS     8   113        17      12  11s
MaosingB             69      25   293       10       2     e        2        I    S        0       0    0         10       4    is        46      28  2S4                                      1
_ __       _,_____                                            _    _____ ___ _______ ______ __                                                         ____          I__
Source: Gaangdong Provincial Qovernsent, January 1991. 
(D X



-53 -
AINNEX 1
CHINA                                              Table  4
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aquatic Products Produrtion (1979-1989)
Marine Fisheries           Freshwater Fisheries
Year        Capture         Farming         Capture       Farming      Total Output
*t)             (t)            (t)             (t)           (t)
1979        413,341           9,037           9,449         200,516         632,343
1980        463,554           8,018           8,834         211,214         691,620
1981        447,020           9,987          10,307         238,530         705,844
1982        520,118          12,958          12,289         283,799         829,164
1983        565,008          17,814          14,111         331,337         928,270
1984        595,242          20,058          14,824         404,944       1,035,068
1985        638,307          26,503          2Q,327         497,801       1,182,938
1986        810,101          59,351          28,127         567,233       1,464,812
1987        799,914         101,793          29,592         622,299       1,553,598
1988        899,017         121,150          32,230         694,206       1,746,603
1989      1,013,212         121,487          37,348         725,425       1,897,472
Source:   Guangdong SAP



GAD4.PROJLOC2                                                        CHINA
02-Oct-91                                       GUWGDOIIC AGRICJLTURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Project Locatiors
Location    ---MNarine Fisheries--    -------------MNarine/Freshwater Culture----- ------Agriculture-------------------  -----Agroincdstry-----    ---Poverty Alleviation
Vessels   Support         Procsction Scope   Suport Facilities   Production Scope    Support Facil.
/a                                /b                              (ha)   /c
Guangzhou                                                                         Lit-l Lit-I
Baiyun                                                                            180     750 FDC btdg/equip (4)
Chenghua                                                                         600   1,100 Nursery (2 ha)
Zheng Chen                                                                        350   1.000
Xintarg                                                                                                               Guangzhou Xintang Frozen
Fr & Veg (Phase I arkd 11)
Panyu
North Jibaosha                                                               )Reclam 400 ha
)mprov 752 ha
South Jibaosha                                                              )Reclam 1063 ha Sugarcane 4667 ha
Wlaqingshawel                                                               }Reclam 1465 ha
)Improv 787 ha
Huizhou            6 st  CS/Off/Veh    4200 Mar cages        CS/Off/Veh/Trg/Dikes
Trg
Jiaen              6 st CS/Veh/Trg                Hatchery   Veh/Trg
Feed mill  Veh
Fenghuojiao                             528 ha  OM Ponds  CS/Off/Veh/Trg/Dikes
Xinhui (Yanan)                          528 ha  81 Ponds  CS/off/Veh/TrgjDikes
Maming             8 St CS                                                        Lit-l Lit-I   Lon-N  Lon-I              Maming Logan Drying
Diarbai          4 srt Off/Veh/Trg                                                300   1,750
Gaozhou                                                                          300   1,750    500    330 FDCs
Huazhou                                                                           170     500               Trg Cent
Ibonan                                                                            100     240               Stores
Xinyi                                                                             100     240
City/Co FOC                                                                       30      187    100
Mei zhou                                                                          Lrn-N Lon-I  Pow-N                      Neizhou Longan Drying
Fengshut                                                                         350             334 Stores             (2 plants)                                   'n'-
Pinyuzn 200 FDCs                                                                                                                                                     o
Meixian                                                                                          733 Res Ctr                                                           o   X
"ua                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~733                                            _(
Xingning                                                                          200     850                                                                        o
Oingyuan                                                                                                                                            Studies
Lianshan Rosin Factory   Infrastructure 
Dev. Credits
Shantou            6 st CS/WHarf    1t500 ea N Cages    Veh/Trg
Off/Veh/Trg   3.000 ea  FW Cages  Veh/Trg
400 ha  FW ponds  Veh/Trg
Feed mill Veh/Trg



GAD14.PROJLOC2                                                        CHINA
02-Oct-91                                       GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELIWKENT PROJECT
Project Locations
Location    ---arine FIsher-ese--    -------------arine/Freshmater Cutturei----- ------Agricutture-------------------  -----Agroifustry-----        ---Poverty Atleviation
Vessels    Support        Production Scope    Support Facilities   Production Scope    Support Facit.
/a                                lb                              (ha)   /c
Shanuei           12 st OfflVeh/Trs       330 ha  Shrlmp     Veh/TrglDlkes                                              Shanuei Lufeng Jingnan
2 srt                 400 ha  Oysters    Off/Veh/Tro                                                   Candied Fruit Factory
Hatchery   Veh/Trg
Feed mItl  Veh/Trg
Shenzhen                                                                                                                Huo Li 8ao Yogurt Factory
S.Frozen Fruit & Veg Factory
S.Shenbao Fruit Juice Factory
S.Spirulina Natural Medicine Factory
S.Feed Additive Factory
S.Foodstuff Proc Factory (tInstant noodles)
Tuujiang          12 st Off/Veh/Trg
6 p
4 ort
Zhanjuang          8 st  CS
4 srt Off/Veh/Trg
Zhaoqing                                  334 ha  FR ponds  Veh/Trg
Zhuhal             8 st  Off/Veh/Trg                                                                                    Zhuhai Fish Carmery
Wanshan Island                        2,000 ea  N Cages    Veh/Trg
Xiazha tRect)                           528 ha  BW ponds   CS/Off/Veh/Trg/Oikes
Oiao (Rect)                             134 ha  GM ponds  CS/Off/VehlTrg/Dikes
Leizhou (Recd)                         480 ha  BU ponds   CS/Veh/TrglDikes
Nodaamen
Sanzaowan (Imp 528 ha)               480 ha  BW ponds   Off/Veh/Trg/Dikes      528 Sugar cane      )
Ballong (RecLam 514 ha)                                                        514 Sugar cane      )
937 Sugar cane imp
---... ----------
/a                          /b                                       /c
pe - purse seiner      BO  = brackish water   FM = feed mill         Lit = Litchi         I  = Imp
st a steel trawler          3 marine           Veh = vehicles        Pon = Ponelo         N   = New
srt= steel refrig. traultFW  fresh water       Eq = equipment        Lon = Longan         FDC = Fruit Development Corp.
CS = cold store         Hat = hatchery         Trg = training                             Res = research                          nu-It I
CS = coldstore        Off = office                                                                                                Oc
0



SPECIESDATA                                                            CHIYA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECt
Main Species and Catches from Guangdong Province Marine Fisheries (ton)
Big                                                                                                                                                        X Total
Year    Yellow Hairtail Squid Cuttle Pomfret Chinese Mackerel Seabream GroLper Conger   Fite  Round Golden  Goat  Lizard Prawn Smalt  Jelly MullowaySubtotal  Marine
Croaker                  Fish          Herrire                           Pike   Fish    Scad Thread  Fish    Fish             Shrimp  Fish                   Capture
1979   1,668  6,520           1,861   1,496           3,671             1,021        15,294  54,156 12,383  90,962   6,375  2,104   8,399 3,816          209,726        71
1980   3,815  10,382         3,956   2,621            5,167            1,848         18,535  99,863 18,882 20,542  13,963  1,808  8,459  1,750           211,591        61
1981   2,473  10,276          2,687   2,059           7,556            3,699         12,956  79,832 16,619  14,436   8,376  2,820  6K847  3,094          173,730        52
1982   2,420  13,638         4,804   3,706            9,601            2,568         17,546 115,231 32,945  12,868  10,721  2,207  10,847 3,354          242,456        58
1983   2,395  10,763         4,974   8,581     975   10.753   4,201    2,733  3,416  54,332 130,182 27,505  11,216  13,840  2,703   9,653  5,900         304,122        65
1984   3,090  18,116          5,939   7,652   1,297   14,480  10,481    4,872  4,475 107,015 103,101 30,051  15,654  20,275  3,680  12,345  2,785        365,308        75
1985   4,618  31,870 11,266   6,351  10,044   2,789   15,978  12,271    5,838 10.079 40,141 126,870 34,997 23,498  24,022  6,030  15,995 14,344          397,001        73
1986  6,016  22,958 11,157  10,231  12,165   8,730   20,133   9,744    5,347 11,526 103,143 131,129 45,664  24,807  25,209  7,915  15,324  3,148  18,710  493,056       69
1987  6,201  34,486 21,197  16,826  19,770   5,316   18,576  13,257    7,190 15,410  39,999 168,467 46,814  25,374  26,126  8,710  20,964 11,468  30,715  536,866       73
1988   5,714  30,365        26,139  13,724   4,355   19,179  10,466    4,207 14,481  48,105 138,501 40,448  27,183  31,544 11,836  24,537 6,207  31,007 487,998         58
1989  12,015  34,925  2,000  17,W8           4,989   30,270  17,821    5,398 16,418  26,059 209,691 54,269                  9,137  17,269 8,512          466,611        48
Note:  From 1979 - 1987, Halnan Island Is included.
Source:Guangdong BAP
a%
I-, tfl
(DX
N.



CHIIA
GUARGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPWET PROJECT
umber of Fishing Vessels ard Pro. itian (1979-1989)
notorized Vessels Operating Off-shore                                                        Off-shote
-----------------------------------------&By Horsepower ---------------------------- ------- Total-              Total      Out      Output
Tear Total otorized Vessets        >400 HP       200-399 HP   120 - 199 uP   s0 - 119 HP  21 - 79HP up      cHP                                   output /a    by      per
(No.) (Tomnae)   (HP)  (No.)  (HP) (No.)  (HP) (No.)  (HP)  (No.)  (HP) (*o.)   (HP) (Ho.)  (HP)   (No.) (Tormage)    (HP)   (ton)                    Notorized   HP
Vessel
1979    8548   240469  572075     112 60619    455 117020   1472 205928    588  51372    676   29639  2705  50365    6008   200934   514943         413341    295027   0.57
1980   10686   274567 69t27n      134  75029    646 180689   1427 200830    761  69593    929   42767  4356 67863    8253   238683   636M           463554    349289   0.55
1981   16911   296585  782390     143  81148    789 205576   1342 189949    754  71053   1234  54708  9148 119102   13410   257677   721536    447020    336703   0.47
1982   27441   328854  890468     156  87462    817 222695   1221 170462    7B4  77342   1825  70572  18766 193153   23569   291012   821666        520118    419794   0.51
1983   38016   374518  934588     188 103038    843 222038   1068 151934    939 93480   1994  79489 25276 246860  30308   319704   896839           565i08    468397  0.52
1984   42888  3872 1018790        212 118926    772 201258   1153 163695    936 90192   2149  86178  29053 278048  34275   340593   938297          545242   488317  0.52
1985   46896   427817 1164349     241 131263    917 237781   1114 161156   1171 115505   2839  113797 31014 308650   37296   385422  1068152        638307    542208   0.51      1
1986   57497   491908 1368465     284 142676    983 250276   1281 182927   1351 136147  3630  128536  38797 397043   46326   434798  1237605        810101    719340   0.58      U,
1987   57058   520732 1486779     384 199863   1257 324634   1298 188684   1681 172270   2141  127254  38839 365295   45600   461471  1378000        79914    736426   0.53      -
1988   59376   582692 1794850     560 306140   1316 339453   1636 244865   1596 196399  4173  137735  37410 358850  46691   525697  1583442         899017    845219   0.53
1989   61115   619232 1908798     657 372753   1564 402562    /b            3873 465485   4980  164722  36088 363152   47162   564336  1768674    1013212    970302   0.55
/a    Marine capture fisheries
/b    Included in next size category
Note: From 1979 - 1987. Hainan Island is included.
Separate data for Hainam shows: in ;987, 9230 vessels with 185079 total horsepower and 96339 t of output.
in 1989, 10894 vessels with 262847 total horsepower ard 126317 t of output.
Source:   Handwritten data from Guangdong SAP
4



GAD15.VESRETIRE                                   CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plan for Retirement of Motorized Fishing Vessels in Guangdong /a
--------- Arrangement of Labor after Vessel Retirement---------------- Motorized Fishing Vessels
City     --Vessels to be Retired-    Project      Aquatic       Marine  Freshwater     Related        Other           (1989)
No.    Horse    Crew     Fishing    Products      Culture Aquaculture    Activity                     No.      Gross      Horse
Power             Vessels  Processing                                                                 tonnage      Power
Shantou         125   13,500      750         110         210          230          80           70          50     1,354     56,367    194,781
Shanwei         115   12,500      720         120          160         250          70           80          40     1,053     35,442    151,277
Huizhou           8      950       50          20           10          10          10                                 59       1,061      3,6C;
Zhuhei           40    4,800      250          65           20         105          50           10                   196      13,447     56,431
Jiangmen         65    9,500      400          50          40          100         150           30          30       430     28,266      88,779
YangJiang        30    4,250      260         150          40           40                       30                   436     27,203      85,026
ZhanJiang       172   20,500   1,204           96         280          370         250          150          58     3,766     86,491    226,158
Macning          45    7,320      360          30          120         110          30           40          30       705     28,915      95,713                   1
TOTAL           600   73,320   3,994          641         880        1,215         640         410          208     7,999    277,192    901,774                    00
/a Plan to scrap 600 motorized fishing vessels--150 vessels per year in 1991 and 1992,
and 100 vessels per year from 1993 - 1995.
ai z
tD- rX



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Page Y-of 3
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Appraisal of Potential Yield for Fishery Resources
In the South China Sea Off Guangdong Province
1.0         The main appraisal area is the continental shelf and slope of the
South China Sea off Guangdong Province between 110°E and 120°E. This is the
Northern South China Sea area where the fisheries of Guangdong have been
primarily coaducted. Chinese fisheries experts believe that fisheries
resources in waters less than 100m deep have been overutilized, but that the
zone deeper than 100m has been underutilized. They proposed that 66 steel
pair trawlers, 14 steel independent trawlers, and 6 wooden purse-seiners be
built under an IDA credit to fish in the under-utilized zone.
2.0         The fisheries consultant was requested to review the resource
situation with respect to the project proposal. According to a report
published by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in
1981, the annual sustainable yield potential for the FAO statistical area
known as the "Northern Mainland Shelf" is about 1,150,000 metric tons (530,000
mt demersal resources; 600,000 mt pelagic resources; and 20,000 mt shrimp
resources). This FAO statistical area is equivalent to the Northern South
China Sea area.
3.0         The highest recent catch (1989) for the Northern South China Sea
area was 1,193,000 mt (180,000 mt by Hong Kong and 1,013,000 mt by China). In
addition, there is an unknown amount taken from the shelf by fishing vessels
from the neighboring Guangxi Province. The total catch has, therefore,
exceeded sustainable yield, suggesting that the resource in the Northern South
China Sea has become fully, if not, overutilized.
4.0         The fisheries consultant noted that the 1981 FAO yield data used
for this appraisal were rough estimates that are in need of updating. A
further review of data from other sources follows.
5.0         Based upon a new survey conducted in September 1990, the South
China Sea Fisheries Research Institute (SCSFRI) reported that the total
biomass for the near-bottom component of fisheries resources in the survey
area was 162,160 mt and its annual potential yield about 130,000 mt. The
survey area approximated the 100-200m zone off Guangdong. The Chinese experts
have reasoned that the additional potential yield available in this zone would
safely support the fishing activities of 86 new project vessels. The annual
catch of the vessels has been estimated to be only 55,640 mt.
6.0         The fisheries consultant's review of the SCSFRI estimation
procedure revealed that gross generalizations were made of three major
factors: area of the 100-200m zone, catchability coefficient of the trawl net,
and natural mortality rate (assumed to be equivalent to acceptable
exploitation rate) for the resource. Based upon alternative values that are
considered equally or more plausible for these factors, the consultant



- 60 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
estimated that the potential yield for the near-bottom component of the
resource within the 100-200m zone to be 42,430 mt; considerably lower than the
SCSFRI estimate. This lower estimate would barely satisfy the nteds of the 80
new project trawlers. There appears to be adequate additional pelagic
resources to support the 6 Project purse seiners.
7.0         On a broader geographical perspective, however, some of the
project trawlers are expected to operate outside the 100-200m zone. The
SCSFRI has reported that the total potential yield from all areas is 313,000
mt. This total includes yields from 5 major areas (northern continental shelf
of the South China Sea, west Nansha area of the Sunda Shelf, slope of northern
continental shelf of the South China Sea, coral areas of the South China Sea,
and slope areas of the South China Sea Basin). A review of the SCSFRI
estimates by the fisheries consultant, including adjustments to two key
parameters used in their yi,?ld calculation, indicated that the total potential
yield is about 111,000 mt (instead of 313,000 mt). However, some of the
potential would not be accessible to the project vessels because some grounds
are not trawlable due to corals, some are too deep to trawl, and some are too
far from port. If the yields of these areas are excluded, the total potential
yield accessible to the project vessels is more realistically 66,000 mt. This
estimate, while considerably lower than originally perceived, is still high
enough to satisfy the needs of the new project vessels.
8.0         Thus, the fisheries consultant confirmed that there is sufficient
fisheries potential (ranging from 66,000 - 110,00 mt) to support the 55,640 mt
need of the 86 new project vessels. Tremendous growth potential, however,
does not appear to be there. The 80 new trawlers are expected to quickly
utili2e most, if not all, the potential yield near bottom within the 100-200m
zone. Any growth potential would be in the pelagic and off-bottonm component
of the resources; which are harvested mainly by purse-seining and off-bottom
trawling. Off-bottom trawling is not designed for the 80 project trawlers.
9.0         The total number of motorized fishing vessels operating off
Guangdong has been reported to be 47,162 vessels. Their combined fishing
power has already overutilized the resource in waters less than lOOm. The
impact of such overutilization has probably extended beyond the shallow zone
into deeper waters, as some of the stocks migrate between deep and shallow
waters. With additional new utilization expected in the 100-200m zone, there
may no longer be a "buffer zone" to replenish stocks in the shallower zone.
Thus, overutilization in waters less than lOOm may get further aggravated if
the present level of fishing intensity continues.
10.0        The World Bank mission was informed by Chinese fisheries
management officials that 600 inshore boats would be retired from the fleet.
This should provide some relief to over-utilization, but in the opinion of the
fisheries !onsultant, would not be sufficient reduction of fishing power to
solve the problem. The existing fishing fleet is simply too bigl Discussions
held with Chinese fisheries officials in Guangdong and Beijing indicated that
they also have similar ideas. Not only should more vessels be retired from
the fleet, but the new project vessels should not be allowed to operate in the
traditional fishing grounds less than 100 m.
11.0        It is important that research surveys be conducted to measure and
monitor the health and dynamics of the resources annually. In this regard, a



ANNEX 2
- 61                             Page 3 of 3
proposal submitted by the South China Sea Fisheries Research Institute to
survey 70 stations between 60-500m during September-October each year is
endorsed by the fisheries consultant. Funding is urged to support chese
surveys.
12.0         In addition, the fisheries consultant recommends that the research
capability of the SCSFRI research vessel Nat- Feng 704 be outfitted with
hydro-acoustic technology to assess off-bottomn and pelagic components of the
resources.  I'heos  resources have never been properly estimated.  An early
survey would be desirable to establish baseline data before a major expansion
of the fishery takes place.  The fisheries consultant noted that
hydro-acoustic survey capcability is available on the R/V Bei Dou, a vessel
that is assigned to The Yellow Sea Fisheries Research Institute of the Chinese
Academy of Sciences. Perhaps the R/V Bei Dou can bp deployed to the South
China Sea for a comprehensive survey.
13.0         Besides resource surveys, there is also a logbook program in place
to monitor fleet perforrmtance and provide data for fisheries assessment and
management. Selected fishing vessels are required to maintain logbooks of
daily fishing activities for submission to fisheries managers. The fisheri.es
consultant recommends that scientific observers be placed onboard some of
these vessels to sample the catch and collect data independently as well to
improve on quality of the data.
14.0         Finally, the definition and symptoms of overfishing of the
fisheries resources should be developed by fisheries scientists and managers
soon so that danger signs of overexploitation can be recognized ahead of time
and timely corrective measures taken.
Loh-Lee Low, Ph.D.
National Marine Fisheries Service
Fisheries Resource Consultant
November J990



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
Guangdong Agricultural Development Project
Electronic Communication, Navigation and Fishing Aids
Fish finders
Fish finders are of two types--color video sounders and paper machines.
The color sounder displays the bottom and fish schools in various colors
according to the strength of echoes received through transducers mounted
in the bottom of the hull. Paper machines use a stylus to mark rolls of
sensitized paper with the echoes received from the transducer. Color
machines are generally more versatile than the paper machines because
they usually have a number of display modes available.  When selecting a
fish finder, the most important factor is to determine the proper fre-
quency of transducer which will best display the target species. If
possible, two transducers--one low frequency and one high frequency--
should be installed. Only species which have swim bladders readily
reflect the signals emitted by the transducer. Flounders and other
bladderless species are often difficult to detect on fish finders.
Global Positioning System (GPS)
GPS is the most advanced navigational aid currently available to non-
military vessels. Like Satnav, it is based on satellites, but there are
many more GPS satellites than SATNAV. The system is now nearly complete
world-wide and offers continuous accuracy down to a few feet. The cost
is still relatively high (about US$5,000), but has already begun to
decline rapidly and is expected to continue to do so over the next few
years.
Loran
Loran is a system of navigation which relies on a "chain" of shore based
transmitters and a shipboard receiver which continuously converts the
"time delay" between two signals received into a displayed latitude and
longitude. China, until recently, has not had a Loran system of its own
but instead has relied on long obsolete Loran "A" stations still
operating from Japan (modern Loran systems are designed as Loran "C").
Loran "A": receivers are no longer manufactured anywhere in the world
except in China. Loran is a reliable navigation aid. Apparently, Loran
is now available in southern China. This fact is not generally knowm to
the world community as Loran over-printed charts (charts which show the
Loran time delay lines of propagation) are not available. How the local
fishermen of Guangdong have contrived to use the system in their area
(apparertly installed for military use) is something of a mystery.
Loran's major advantages are that it is continuously accurate to within
1/4 mile and reproducible. Its disadvantages are that it is available in
limited areA -1 subject to a few quirks wqhich require that skippers be
educated in  ^  basic theory o  Loran transmissions so that they can
identify false readings.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
PateFT2of 3
Radar
Radar technology is readily available in most areas of the world. The
Chinese produce perfectly adequate radars. Modern fish vessel radars
have what is known as "daylight and color" technology which allows the
operator to view the radar screen in full daylight without the use of the
hood used in older radars to shade the screen. Targets are displayed in
different colors by the strength of their reflectivity. VHF Scanner, RDF
and ADF
Satnav
Satnav is a navigation system available world wide, based on a series of
satellites. A "fix" or position is obtained by the vessel as one of a
series of satellites passes its highest elevation over the vessel. The
'fix" is momentary and cannot be obtained again until another satellite
passes overhead. Satellites pass over at various intervals from 20 to 90
minutes. Not all satellite passes are useful though, depending on the
satellite's angle of elevation over the horizon. In between "fixes", the
Satnav receiver operates on "dead reckoning"--estimating the vessel's
position from other data such as speed, drift, current, direction, etc.,
all of which must be input by an operator or obtained from other instru-
ments on the bridge.  Therefore, Satnav is generally most useful for long
distance navigation where course and speed do not change much over time.
Satnav is of limited use for fishing vessels, except as noted for long
distance runs to and from distant fishing grounds.
Single Side Band (SSB)
Single side band radio (also known as HF or high frequency radios) are
used for communication over long distances. With enough power, the
proper frequencies and good at..ospheric conditions, side band communica-
tions can be established over many thousands of miles. Unlike VHF, SSB
communications utilize the ionosphere to 'bounce" radio waves over long
distances of the earth's surface. Modern SSBs are "synthesized", which
means they can transmit and receive on any frequency within their de-
signed ranged (usually 2 to 22 megahertz) Older style SSBs had to depend
on crystals tuned tr :ie:e-set frequencies. Most older sets were thus
limited to between :. Lnd 20 individual frequencies by the number of
internal slots available for crystals. As the range of each frequency
changes through the day, depending on the height of the ionosphere, a
crystal set can often be unable to find a suitable or unioccupied channel.
Chinese fishing vessels generally use the crystal type SSB with a limited
number of channels, usually 2182 khz and two or three other channels
(this is possibly perceived to be for security reasons). By internation-
al convention, 2182 can be used only in emergency situations. The most
popular brand SSB in the U.S. is Stephens, which is actually manufactured
in China.
Sonar
Sonar is used to detect schools of fish which are up in the water column
but not directly under the vessel. This means that sonars must search
over 360 degrees and various angles form the horizontal. Omni sonars are
expensive and simultaneously search over 360 degrees around the vessel.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Search light sonars are cheaper and scan slowly around the vessel in
stages. Sonar transducers are usually mounted under the vessel where
they can be mechanically raised and lowered, as well as inclined to
search at different angles and depths. Sonars are best suited to the
Chinese seiners which are targeting pelagic species. Sonars are
notoriously subject to breakdowns.
VHF
Very high frequency marine radios are the primary communication tool used
aboard ship for short distance communication. VHF transmissions are
line-of-sight and are limited to 25 watts. This limits the effective
range of communication to about 30 miles depending on the height and
sensitivity of the vessel's antennae. By international convention, the
channels numbered 1 to 88 are assigned various uses, i.e. weather, bridge
to bridge, ship to shore telephone, coast guard, port operations, and
safety and hailing. In most areas of the world, channel 16 is used for
safety and hailing. Thus, all vessels are supposrd to maintain a con-
stant watch on this channel. In order to accomplish this objective, most
vessels use two radios--one tuned to channel 16 and the other tuned to
the vessel's chosen working frequency. To reduce the cost of purchasing
two separate radios, a variety of schemes have evolved which allow one
radio to automatically switch back and forth between 16 and a working
channel and thus provide an adequate watch on the safety and hailing
channel.
VHF Scanner, RDF and ADF
Many modern VHF radio can scan either all channels or a pre-set number of
channels. The speed of this scanning function can usually be adjusted.
Scanning VHFs are useful to monitor the activities of other vessels and
for receiving calls from vessels using different working channels. When
coupled with an RDF (radio direction finder) or ADF (automatic direction
finder), the relative bearing of other vessels can be known. This is
extremely useful when trying to locate other vessels which may have found
good fishing grounds. In emergency situation, rescuing vessels can
ascertain the bearings of distressed vessels, distressed vessels can
inform rescuers of the course to steer to their position, or vessels
which have lost other navigation aids can follow a shore-based signal
back to port.
Video Course Plotters
Course plotters take data from Loran or GPS receivers (or in some cases
radar) and convert it into a visual display. The operator can also input
other information such as hazards to navigation, the position of their
vessels, or any location which the operator may want to have displayed.
Advanced versions of the course plotter operate with ROM cards or comput-
er discs which contain complete cards of the selected are of the ocean.
With these machines, the operator can continuously see his position and
course travelled in relation to nearby land masses. By means of a
cursor, the operator may input a destination and have the plotter in-
stantly calculate and display course and time to destination. Productive
fishing grounds can be recorded and displayed for future reference.
Course plotters are an extremely valuable tool for fishermen.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page I of 3
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Fisheries Management Plan
The Guangdong Bureau of Aquatic Products (GBAP) would identify or
establish, in conjunction with the Ministry of Agriculture's Bureau of Aquatic
Products, a set of standards or statutory principles that would guide the
development of the Fisheries Management Plan (FMP). As a starting point, the
following standards are proposed and a brief description follows of how the
FMP would relate to these standards1.
1.          Conseivation and management measures shall prevent overfishing
while achieving on a continuing basis, the optimum yield (OY) from each
fishery for the Guangdong fishing industry.
The determination of OY is a decisional mechanism for implementing an
FMP's objectives and for balancing the various interests that comprise
the national welfare. OY is based on maximum sustainable yield (MSY),
with the limitation that the choice of OY--and the conservation and
management measures proposed to achieve it--must prevent overfishing.
overfishing is a level or rate of fishing mortality that jeopardizes the
long-term capacity of a stock or stock complex to produce MSY on a
continuing basis. Each FMP must specify, to the maximum extent
possible, an objective and measurable definition of overfishing for each
stock or stock complex covered by that FMP and provide an analysis of
how the definition was determined and how it relates to reproductive
potential.
The definition of overfishing for a stock or stock complex may be
developed or expressed in terms of a minimum level of spawning biomass,
maximum level or rate of fishing mortality, or a formula, model or other
measurable standard designed to ensure the maintenance of the stock's
productive capacity.
2.          Conservation and management measures shall be based upon the best
scientific information available.
FMPs must take into account the best scientific information available,
and it should specify whatever information fishermen and processors are
required to submit. The FMP should explain the practical utility of the
information specified in monitoring the fishery, in facilitating in-
season management decisions, and in judging the performance of the
management regime. FMPs should be amended on a timely basis as new
information indicates the necessity for change in objectives or
management measures. The FMP relies on a Stock Assessment and Fishely
1This propoco&l is bosed on tho netional standards fot fichery conservation ond management In
the United Stotoo ea cot forth In tho Masnuxon Fishary Connorvctlon and Mmnegement Act).



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Prage 2 of 3
Evaluation (SAFE) Report which provides a summary of the most recent
oi&logical condition of the species in the fishery management unit, and
the social and economic condition of the recreational and commercial
fishing interests and the fish processing industries. It summarizes, on
a periodic basis, the best available scientific information concerning
the past, present, and possible future condition of the stocks and
fisheries being managed. The SAFE report provides the information to
the decision makers for determining annual harvest levels from each
stock, documenting significant trends or changes in the resource and
fishery over time. For the project, the SAFE report would most likely
be prepared by the South China Seas Fishery Research Institute
(SCSFRI)on the basis of the annual resource survey.
3.          To the extent practicable, an individual stock of fish shall be
managed as a unit throughout its range and interrelated stocks of fish shall
be managed as a unit or in close coordination.
The purpose of this principle is to induce a comprehensive approach to
fishery management.
4.          Conservation and management measures shall not discriminate
between residents of different counties. If it becomes necessary to allocate
or assign fishing privileges among various Guangdong fishermen, such
allocations shall be: (1) fair and equitable to all such fishermen, (2)
reasonably calculated to promote conservation, and (3) carried out in such
manner that no particular individual, corporation, or other entity acquires an
excessive share of such privileges.
Allocations of fishing privileges include, for example, per vessel catch
limits, quotas by vessel class and gear type, different quotas or
fishing seasons for commercial and recreational fishermen, assignment of
areas to different gear users, and limitation of permits to a certain
number of vessels or fishermen.
5.          Conservation and management measures shall, where practicable,
promote efficiency in the utilization of fishery resources; except that no
such measures shall have economic allocations as its sole purpose.
In theory, an efficient fishery would harvest the OY with the minimum
use of economic inputs such as labor, capital, interest and fuel.
Efficiency in terms of aggregate costs then becomes a conservation
objective, where "conservation" constitutes wise use of all resources
involved in the fishery, not just fish stocks. An FMP should discuss the
extent to which overcapitali7-tion, congestion, economic waste, and
inefficient techniques in the fishery reduce the net benefits derived
from the management unit and present the attainment and appropriate
allocation of OY.
6.          Conservation and management measures shall take into account and
allow for variations among, and contingencies in, fisheries, fishery
resources, and catches.



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Each fishery exhibits unique uncertainties. The phrase "conservation
and management" implies the wise use of fishery resources though a
management regime that includes some protection against these
uncertainties.
7.          Conservation and management measures shall, where practicable,
minimize costs and avoid unnecessary duplication.
FMPs would not be required for each and every fishery--only for those
where regulation would serve some useful purpose and where the present
or future benefits or regulation would justify the costs.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of Agroindustries
1.          Guangzhou Frozen Fruit and Vegetable Plant - The plant would be
located in Xintang County, about 37 km from Guangzhou, near a major center of
fruit and vegetable production. The subproject has been divided into two
phases; the first phase would allow annual production of about 2,000 t of
frozen fruits and vegetables (snow peas, green beans, litchi, water chestnut
and corn) and 1,500 t of chilled green pepper and litchi. The frozen goods
would be aimed at the export market and chilled vegetables would be shipped to
northern China during the winter months. The plant would be equipped with
Individual Quick Freeze (IQF) capacity of 2 t/hr and chilled storage for 1,500
t. After the first phase reaches full capacity utilization and profitable
operation, the freezing and cold storage capacity would be expanded to allow
production of an additional 1,500 t of produce. The two-phase approach has
been taken to limit the risk due to the competitiveness of the world market
for frozen fruits and vegetables, the present scarcity of temperature-
controlled rail transport and distribution facilities, and the unproven track
record of the project entity (Guangzhou Bureau of Agriculture). An
understanding would be reached that the decision to proceed with expansion
would be agreed with IDA, on the basis of (1) the first phase achieving
profitable operation and full capacity utilization and (2) confirmation that
the export quota, which seeks to limit the exported volume of frozen
vegetables, would justify the planned expansion.
2.          Shenzhen Frozen Fruit and Vegetable Plant - The project would
provide for establishment of a fruit and vegetable quick-freezing and packing
plant and would include installation of a small Individual Quick Freeze (IQF)
plant (capacity 1.5 t/hr), a chilled warehouse (0 to 160C) to function as an
intermediary storage for off-season vegetables to be procured from north China
for sale to Hong Kong, and a cold storage (-18 C to -200C) for short term
storage of frozen vegetables. Production would be predominantly for export
and the plant capacity would be about 2,500 t of frozen fruits and vegetables
and 600 t of chilled vegetables and fruits for the export market. The
proposed subproject represents a product diversification utilizing existing
market channels, as the Shenzhen Fruit and Vegetable Co. (major investor) is
at present trading 25,000 t of fresh vegetables to Hong Kong annually.
3.          Shenzhen Yogurt Drink Plant - The project would provide financing
for expansion of the existing Shenzhen Huo Li Bao Company Ltd. The plant's
existing equipment is mostly second-hand and in need of upgrading to continue
operations in the medium to long term. A complete new factory, with advanced
equipment, would be erected adjacent to the old plant. The project would
finance the construction of new buildings and procurement of a 20 t/day milk
recombination unit and a fermentation system. The new facility would produce
1,800 t of yogurt drink in glass bottles for the domestic market and 4,800 t
in plastic bottles for export. The plant is already exporting yogurt drink,



- 69                         ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
has a strong financial base and good management, and with the improved hygiene
of the new factory, sales can be expected to increase even further.
4.           Shenzhen Shenbao Fruit Juice Plant - The project would establish a
new plant to produce 8,000 t of fruit juice drink and 2,000 t of soybean milk
in glass bottles, of which about 85% would be aimed to the domestic market and
the balance to the foreign market. The fruit drinks (orange, pineapple,
coconut, kiwi, carrots, etc) will contain about 10% fruit juice and soybean
drink, about 6% soybean. The project would finance civil works and equipment
for fresh fruit and soybean processing and a bottling unit.
5.          SLbnzhen SRirulina Natural Medicine Company - Under the project, a
new plant would be established to expand production of spirulina tablets and
capsules to 40 t annually. The project would provide civil works for the new
plant and processing, packaging, laboratory and quality control equipment.
The company at present produces 5 t of tablets and capsules from oyster
extract and spirulina and exports 100% of production.
6.          Shenzhen-Feed Additive Plant - The project would establish a 5,000
t/yr plant to produce feed additives (vitamin and mineral supplements) for
incorporation into poultry and swine feeds. Provision would be made for
buildings and equipment for processing, offices and a laboratory. Technical
cooperation with the SARC would insure development of good composition of the
feed additives and analysis of the final products, as well as establishing
domestic production of some of some of the key components. Other components
would be imported and since the enterprise is located within Shenzhen SEZ,
foreign exchange for imported materials is available.
7.          Shenzhen Foodstuff Processing Factory - A new plant would be
established to expand the existing instant noodle factory and to diversify
into production of instant noodles packaged in bowls.
8.          Zhuhai Fish Cannery - The project would provide buildings and
equipment for expanding the existing plant capacity from about 900 t of canned
fish and 100 t of canned vegetables to 2,900 t of canned fish and 1,100 t of
canned vegetables. The Zhuhai Fish Cannery currently produces about 1,000
t/yr of canned fish and vegetables and with the expansion proposed under the
project, production would increase to 3,000 t/yr. The proposal includes a
pretreatment plant on a new site in Zhongshan County and installation of a
canning line at the present factory site in Doumen.
9.          Oingyuan Lianshan Rosin Processing and Perfumery plant - A new
plant is proposed to utilize turpentine, a low value byproduct from nearby
resin processing plants. By carrying out a fractionated distillation and
hydrogenation of the turpentine, several new products could be obtained, part
of which could be further utilized as scent base for air-freshener type
products and cosmetics. In addition, the distillation plant will also process
"Litsea Cubera oil" processed from wild fruit 3ollected by farmers. The
project would provide buildings and equipment for processing 600 t of
turpentine and 100 t of Litsea Cubera oil.
10.         Lufeng Candied Fruit Factory - The project would provide financing
for a new facility to produce 700 t of preserved candied fruit and 300 t of
jams, for both domestic and export markets. Foreign consultants xwould be
engaged for review of plant design.



- 70 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
11.         Longan Drying - The project would include financing for
establishment of two simple solar drying plants in Meizhou to carry out the
final drying of longan pulp, which is pre-dried at the farm level.  At
Maoming, a solar dry plant would be constructed for longan, litchi and various
vegetables. This plant would use a coal boiler as a supplemental heat source
and would have a total processing capacity of 5,150 t/yr of raw materials.



71 -                                                      Annex 4
GAD15.totcost                                                           CHINA                             Table  1
02-Oct-91                        GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT        Page  1 of 2
Cost Summary
Local Foreign   Total         Local Foreign    TotaL          X
(Y million)               ---C(USS mitlion)----                FE
A. MARINE FISHERIES
1. Fishing vesseLs
Steel pair trawler              7.62 144.84   152.46           1.46  27.75      29.21        95
Wood purse seiner               0.39   7.36      7.75          0.07   1.41       1.48        95
Refrigerated trawler            3.03  57.50    60.53           0.58  11.02      11.60        95
2. Support facilities
Cold stores/ice plant           8.37  12.56    20.93           1.60   2.41       4.01        60
Offices                         2.70   1.80      4.51          0.52   0.35       0.86        40
Wharf                            1.71   0.43     2.14          0.33   0.08       0.41        20
3.  Vehicles and transport             0.00   5.17      5.17          0.00   0.99       0.99      100
4.  Training and TA                    2.22   3.33      5.54          0.42   0.64       1.06       60
5.  Working capital                    3.44   0.00      3.44          0.66   0.00       0.66        0
Base Cost                         29.48 232.98   262.46          5.65  44.63      50.28        86
Phys cont                          1.84  11.32    13.16          0.35   2.17       2.52        86
Price cont                         6.33  38.8?    45.19          0.52   3.19       3.71        86
TotaL                            37.65 283.16   320.81           6.52  49.99      56.51        88
B.  AQUACULTURE
1.  Seadikes                          36.68   6.47    43.15          7.03   1.24        8.27       15
2.  Ponds and cages                  116.29  20.52   136.82          22.28   3.93      26.21       15
3. Support facilities
Hatcheries,Feedmills              13.05   3.26    16.31          2.50   0.62       3.12        20
offices                            0.51   0.13      0.64         0.10   0.02       0.12        20
4.  Vehicles, boats, equipment         0.00  32.56    32.56           0.00   6.24       6.24      100
5.  Training and TA                    2.90   0.73      3.63          0.56   0.14       0.70       20
6.  Engineering & management           6.48   0.00      6.48          1.24   0.00       1.24        0
7.  Working capitaL                   79.89   0.00    79.89          15.30   0.00      15.30        0
Base Cost                        255.81  63.67   319.48         49.01  12.20      61.20        20
Phys cont                         15.97   3.99    19.96          3.06   0.76       3.82        20
Price cont                       34.74   8.69    43.43           2.54   0.64       3.18        20
TotaL                           306.52  76.35   382.87          54.61  13.60      68.21        20
C.  AGRICULTURE - FRUIT DEVELOPMENT
1.  Orchard establishment            168.51 112.34   280.85         32.28  21.52      53.80        40
2.  Support facilities                16.60   5.53    22.13           3.18   1.06       4.24       25
3.  Vehicles                           0.00  12.52    12.52           0.00   2.40       2.40      100
4.  Training and TA                    2.63   3.95      6.58          0.50   0.76       1.26       60
5.  Engineering and management         6.43   0.00      6.43          1.23   0.00       1.23        0
Base Cost                        194.16 134.34   328.50         37.20  25.73      62.93        41
Phys cont                          1.79   1.24      3.03         0.34   0.24       0.58        41
Price cont                       30.34  20.99    51.34           2.29   1.58       3.87        41
Total                           226.30 156.57   382.87          39.83  27.56      67.38        41
D.  AGRICULTURE - LAND RECLAMATION
1.  Seadikes                         132.97  14.77   147.75         25.47   2.83       28.30       10
2.  Land development                  60.83   6.76    67.59          11.65   1.29      12.95        10
3.  Support facilities                 1.22   0.41      1.63          0.23   0.08       0.31       25
4.  Vehicles                           0.00   6.00      6.00          0.00   1.15       1.15      100
5.  Training and TA                    0.86   0.29      1.14          0.16   0.05       0.22       25
6.  Engineering and management         6.66   0.00      6.66          1.28   0.00       1.28         0
7.  Working capital                    4.91   4.91      9.83          0.94   0.94       1.88       50
Base Cost                        207.46  33.14   240.60         39.74   6.35      46.09        14
Phys cont                         18.69   2.99    21.68          3.58   0.57       4.15        14
Price cont                       34.40   5.50    39.90           2.62   0.42       3.03        14
Total                            260.55  41.62   302.17         45.94   7.34      53.28        14
E.  AGROINDUSTRY
1.  Land                              11.40   0.00    11.40           2.18   0.00       2.18        0
2.  Buildings                         27.18   4.80    31.98           5.21   0.92       6.13        15
3.  Equipment                         22.70  68.11    90.81           4.35  13.05      17.40       75
4.  VehicLes                           0.00   5.74      5.74          0.00   1.10       1.10       100
5.  Training and TA                    0.82   1.24      2.06          0.16   0.24       0.39       60
6.  Working capital                   19.31   0.00    19.31           3.70   0.00       3.70         0
7.  Engineering and management         2.16   0.00      2.16          0.41   0.00       0.41         0
Base Cost                         83.58  79.88   163.46         16.01  15.30      31.31        49
Phys cant                          8.70   8.32    17.02           1.67   1.59      3.26        49
Price cont                         8.53   8.15    16.68          0.60   0.58        1.18       49
Total                            100.81  96.35   197.16         18.28  17.47      35.75        49



- 72 -                                                     Annex 4
Table 1
GAD15.totcost                                                             CHINA                               p         2   f 2
02-Oct-91                          GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT           age       o
Cost Summa-y
Local Foreign   Total          Local Foreign    Total
---       Y million)        ----      ----(USS million)----       FE
F. POVERTY ALLEVIATION
1.  Studies                             2.38   0.13       2.50          0.45   0.02       0.48         5
2.  Infrastructure                     14.40   1.60    16.00            2.76   0.31       3.07         10
3.  Development credits                83.50   0.00    83.50           16.00   0.00       16.00         0
Base Cost                         100.28   1.73   102.00          19.21   0.33       19.54         2
Phys cont                           2.36   0.04      2.40          0.45   0.01        0.46         2
Price cont                         30.97   0.53    31.50           2.61   0.04        2.66         2
Total                             133.60   2.30   135.90          22.28   0.38       22.66         2
TOTAL   Base Cost                         870.76 545.73 1,416.49          166.81 104.55    271.36          39
Phys cont                          49.36  27.89    77.25           9.46   5.34       14.80        36
Price cont                        145.31  82.73   228.04          11.18   6.45       17.64        37
Total                          1,065.43 656.35 1,721.78          187.45 116.34    303.79          38



_ 73 -
GAD12/EXPTO02-Oct-91                                 CHINA                                            Annex 4
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                        TaDle  2
Expenditure schedule
Summary
Yr I        Yr 2         Yr 3         Yr 4        Yr 5         Yr 6      Total
AquacultureBase Cost       114,825      116,360       88,296                                             319,481
Phys cont         8,549       6,547        4,868                                              19,964
Price cont        6,169      17,221       20,039                                              43,429
Total           129,543     140,128      113,203                                             382,874
Marine FishBase Cost       130,824        2,454       64,603          832      63,745                    262,457
Phys cont         6,759           81       3,175                    3,145                     13,159
Price cont        6,879         365       14,775          232       22,943                    45,194
Total           144,461       2,900       82,553        1,064      89,833                    320,810
AgroindustrBase Cost       104,398       48,726            0       10,349            0                   163,473
Phys cont        12,071       3,483            0        1,466            0                    17,020
Price cont        5,868       7,517            0        3,296            0                    16,681
Total           122,337      59,726            0       15,111            0                   197,174
Land recl  Base Cost        76,889       75,900       53,418      24,461        9,932                    240,599
Phys cont         7,079       6,938        4,852        1,990          817                    21,676
Price cont        4,198      11,929       12,703        7,380       3,687                     39,896
Total            88,166      94,766       70,972       33,830       14,437                   3U2,171
Orchards   Base Cost        88,401      120,943       79,793      29,740        7,181        2,440       328,498
Phys cont         1,206        1,493         332            0            0            0        3,031
Price cant        4,480      17,631       17,467        8,298        2,464       1,000        51,340
Total            94,087     140,067       97,592       38,038       9,645        3,440       382,869
Poverty AllBase Cost           500       11,500       20,500      25,000       23,500       21,000       102,000
Phys cont             0            0         750          750          525         375         2,400
Price cont           25        1,656       4,633        7,184       8,241        8,764        30,502
Total               525      13,156       25,883       32,934      32,266       30,139       134,902
TOTAL      Base Cost       515,836      375,883      306,609      90,381      104,358       23,440    1,416,507
(Y'000)    Phys cont        35,663       18,542       13,976       4,206        4,487          375        77,250
Price cant       27,619      56,318       69,617       26,390      37,335        9,764       227,042
Total          579,118      450,743      390,202      120,977     146,180       33,579    1,720,800
TOTAL      Base Cost        98,819       72,008       58,737       17,314      19,992        4,490       271,362
(US$ '000) Phys cont         6,832        3,552        2,677         806          860           72        14,799
Price cont        1,796       3,929        5,343        2,247       3,399          912        17,626
Total           107,447      79,489       66,758       20,367       24,250       5,475       303,787



- 74  -                                                   Annex 5
19.TOTPROC2                                               CHINA                                        Table  1
02-Oct-91   GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                       p       1   f 2
Procurement Arrangements by Component                           age    o
ICs        LCB     OTHER          NA      Total
- ... ........US$   m-...........
MARINE FISHERIES
Civil works                                          2.01 /a                           2.01
Equipment
Fishing vessels                       47.90 /b                                     47.90
Office, cold store. wharf               2.70       0.46      0.15 /c                3.31
Vehicles                                1.03                                         1.03
Training
Local                                                                    0.52       0.52
Overseas trg, Study tours,TA                                             0.63       0.63
Land                                                                       0.24        0.24
Construction supervision, management                                       0.19        0.19
Working capital                                                            0.68        0.68
-- - -    -- -- -    ......    -- - - -    ...... .....
TotaL                                   51.62        2.47      0.15        2.27      56.51
IDA financing                           (49.9)       (0.4)     (0.1)       (0.6)     (51.0)
LAND RECLAMATION
CiviL works                                         46.05
Equipment & Materials
CW materials                            2.33                                        2.33
Other equipment & vehicles              0.50       0.69                              1.19
Vehicles, boats, cons equip            0.10                                         0.10
Fertilizer and chemicals               0.82 /d                                      0.82
Training
LocaL                                                                    0.18       0.18
Overseas trg, Study tours,TA                                             0.05       0.05
Land                                                                       0.00       0.00
Construction supervision, management                                       1.34        1.34
Working capital                                                            1.22        1.22
-- -  -    -- -- -    . .... .  -  - - --     - - - -
Total                                    3.75       46.74      0.00        2.79      53.28
IDA financing                             (3.6)     (23.6)                 (0.0)     (27.3)
ORCHARDS
Civil works                                          2.56      4.10 /e                 6.66
Equipment & Materials
Seedlings, bean cake, manure, etc                            8.78 /f                8.78
VehicLes                                2.42                                        2.42
Fertilizer and chemicals              23.19                                        23.19
Other equip                             1.15       0.08      0.12 /g                 1.35
Training
Local                                                                    0.83       0.83
Overseas trg, Study tours,TA                                             0.52       0.52
Land                                                                       1.36        1.36
Construction sufervision, management                                       2.28        2.28
Fa.mers labor                                                             20.00      20.00
Total                                    26.76       2.63      13.00      24.99      67.38
IDA financing                            (26.7)      (2.4)     (3.8)       (0.5)     (33.4)



- 75 -                                                   Annex 5
19.TOTPROC2                                                CHINA                                          Table  1
02-Oct-91   GUANGDONG AGRICUITURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                          Page  2 of 2
Procurement Arrangements by Component
ICB        LCB     OTHER          NA       Total
--------------------USS m -----------------.-.-
AQUACULTURE
Civil works                                          35.09                             35.09
Equipment & Materials
Civil works materials                   5.62                                          5.62
Vehicles                                2.78 /h                                       2.78
Boats                                   2.72                                          2.72
other equip                             1.98        1.62                              3.60
Training
Local                                                                     0.37        0.37
Overseas trg, Study tours,TA                                              0.36        0.36
Land                                                                        0.03        0.03
Construction supervision, management                                        1.41        1.41
Working capital                                                            16.22       16.22
---  -    .............. -----   -------  .........
Total                                    13.11       36.71      0.00       18.39       68.21
IDA financing                            (12.8)       (1.3)      0.0        (0.4)      (14.5)
AGROINDUSTRY
Civil works                                           6.89                              6.89
Equipment & Materials
Machinery and equipment                16.15        4.66                             20.81
Vehicles                                1.07                                          1.07
Boats                                                                                 0.00
Other equip                                                                           0.00
Training
Local                                                                     0.21        0.21
Overseas trg, Study tours,TA                                              0.21        0.21
Land                                                                        2.22        2.22
Construction supervision, management                                        0.44        0.44
Working capital                                                             3.91        3.91
Total                                    17.22       11.55      0.00        6.99       35.76
IDA financing                            (13.7)       (7.0)      0.0        (0.2)      (20.9)
POVERTY
Civil works                                                     4.00                    4.00
Studies                                                                     0.50        0.50
Development credit                                              18.20                  18.20
Total                                     0.00        0.00     22.20        0.50       22.70
IDA financing                                                  (14.4)       (0.5)      (14.9)
Total Project Cost                       86.50      100.11     35.35       55.93      303.83
Total IDA financing                     (106.8)      (34.6)    (18.3)       (2.3)    (162.0)
Note: Totals do not add due to rounding



Annex 5
Table  2
GAD15.LCBPKG                       CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Contracts
Works      No.       Average
WORKS UNDER LCB                        Value       of       Contract
(USS m)   Contracts      Value
AQUACULTURE
1.   Shrimp - Shanwei                        2.89          19        0.15
2.   Shrimp hatchery                          0.27          2         0.14
3.   Oyster - Shanwei
Bldgs                                   0.06           1        0.06
4.   FW ponds - Shantou                       2.98         10         0.30
5.   fW ponds - Zhaoqing                      2.78          9         0.31
6.   FU hatchery                              0.46          1         0.46
7.   FW net cages
8.   Marine cages - Huizhou
Dike improvement                        0.60           2        0.30
9.   Marine cages - Shantou
10.  Marine cages - Zhuhai
Refrigeration                           0.01           2        0.00
11.  Fenghuohia                              4.14          14        0.30
12.  Yanan                                   4.07          13         0.31
13. Modaomen                                 2.86          10        0.29
14.  Leizhu                                  5.06          15         0.34
15.  Qiao                                     1.52          9         0.17
16.  Xiazha                                  6.81          20         0.34
17.  Shrimp feed mill                        0.24           1        0.24
18.  Fish feed mill                          0.28           1        0.28
Total and average                      35.03         129        0.27
LAND RECLAMATION
1.   Jiaomen - Panyu Jib N                   6.85 )
Jiaomen - Panyu Jib S                  12.97 )        60        0.66
Jiaomen - Wangwingsha                 19.65 )
2.   Modaomen                                 6.62         15         0.44
Total and average                      46.09          75        0.61
AGROINDUSTRY
Factory buildings                       6.89          14        0.49
MARINE FISHERIES
Cold stores and offices                 1.80           7        0.26
AGRICULTURE - ORCHARDS
Warehouses and offices                  2.56          15        0.17
92.37        240         0.38



PR2RO= EVEr SCHEOMt FOR ICUrV AD MATRIALS
CHINA                                              mAem    Cuangdong Agriculture Development
_.         ,                .._ 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I iWet!t)t                                                                                                                                                             g
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIs tea x ir -,    5xn _- 71                           _       19  i I +i  t   
_0 goats
1st Plaots    kr'3-wre o     TCr     239-
Z4 hosts
2nd Roars pac1'al            ICfl   14b  'U.4~
16 hoats
itra Boat 03rki                      9.6
Ea.'uirenents Ea,~~~~~~~~s  1C~~~   I1.~-i -  -                               -  7 - '3- I LC
Ist  -esr     o Y3J5                                                                                                                 -  DT
Re.      ee_rnnts                                           e rau rX-^    ore *2
lzwoe3t     s Isf    .
2ndVter's                    LIE                                                   I I                                                                        n
lttd re-ars ICR7
-equreiv at Fxc         olt  o^v    1 4.1                        ^ss.t1             - r     a _    oroz  ece -
1~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ 2
ReWu1r~eRms                  ICS     11.2 r
3~~~~~~~~~ 1R
3rd vesr'sLCBl
Requfrepmnts                 LUR      0.4   ''-                                                     
CO,,,.,  -  ..  .                                    . .     -    -  -    -    -   -           -..
.,,...r PA   *KW.W  WCA,t*'UC A.eCU OOCUS"fl        0 flt15t OIICC., 4fl4           O-eflEfl* tlMA
ctlUawtv ttflhS                                         I T*AMU.ppt,C*1O.SAflCOOC*,flkt$TOC*                  15 ,nt..sott,vtR,r$.,rt            (5.*t.Y.5U                                                  O es
bOt



FORK AOM 1U3
,o             mr!"A                                            PROCURENT SCGEDtULE FOR EGUIP MEtT At;D MATERIALS                                  -ocr Cuangdor- Aoricuttre Development
ou.m",                                                                 II:1.5110           ii i I                 Il
4th Year's TCRO
|leq treaents                             7. 
',th Yeor's LCB
Pequ,tremorntS                    S       )I  Cl
,tO, vear's ICR
Pequirement0s                    C        24
5th '.r'r   LCR                                  M
IP.quJi^ Aents                                                   SOCUIbLCB  0.2                                                                                    I                I
6'h *'car's !C.B                                 "o=
r~,,j,ircemfnts                 lD        0.5    r                                                                                                                                                                                          1
A:a0OAMTc01TaT                                                    A 'AIfb.t W0C*CTCS .00ooCfEttS Tso CS                        '0 v*TEAO. GLNEAITS A  1       +         CI9AO,n'1vE000
OTA.fAOOCT_ff.T_CCORTArSOt                                          S IOSCLIAA,CBO WIC11CAllOAlOOOWCfl?S                         ..It 114 DS!AA IVnSt                  COV Ot 0fTIV  WS
C_:D. Cu..   0 040w..T_ CRtTS*&0                                       10 sTovTAh T'000                                                                                   0100100
0Hu
R"=D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
ITtT C w O   OtTtlalO^t  6 tRIIINV^k^TIOI*FOIIT^$O^T^tTttC'OI_e^t15t0.                                                                         E 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FT                                                  -uTvu    rv oSl |oso clsc:a r  .
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i -131 
sol
mmwlr~~~~~Tx)- -CTOM                                                                                          .1-0.0-ocv-E-Z~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~O    q 



-  79 -                                  ANNEX  6
DISBURSEMEN      06-Oct-91                CHINA
GAD25                       GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA                              Disbursements
Fiscal Year/                 Semester    Cumulative  Cumulative  Disbursement Profile
Semester                     ----(USS million) -----                (Yr/Semester)      %
1992                                                                   1
1st                             0.0                                   1st          0
2nd                            15.0         15.0            9         2nd           3
1993                                                                   2
1st                            10.0                                   1st         10
2nd                            10.0         35.0           22         2nd          18
;994                                                                  3
1st                            15.0                                   1st         30
2nd                            15.0         65.0           40         2nd         46
1995                                                                  4
1st                            17.5                                   1st         58
2nd                            17.5        100.0           62         2nd         70
1996                                                                  5
1st                            17.5                                   1st         78
2nd                            17.5        135.0           83         2nd         82
1997                                                                  6
1st                           10.00                                   1st         90
2nd                           10.00        .55.0           96         2nd         94
1998                                                                   7
1st                            2.50                                   1st        100
2nd                            2.50        160.0           99         2nd
1999
1st                            2.00
2nd                            0.00        162.0          100
/a Disbursement F-ofile for China - All sectors
cxpected completion date:  December 31, 1997
Expected closing date:       December 31, 1998



CHINA
GWMXGDO1G AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RESPONSIBILITY FOR DESIGN AND INPLERENTATION
Construction           Operation/
Design                  Oesign Review       Construction      Supervision            Management                       Otmership
1. IARINE FISHERIES
Ilooen purse seiners      Yanglsng Fishing Boat Design cuangdorg BAP Ship              ICS      SFM, Ship Survey la Contract to Individuals    Muicipat fishery companies
Department                    Survey Authority                        Authority                                      untit recovery of capitat
investment
Steel refrig trawler      Guangzhou Fishing Vessel      Guag BAP Ship                  lCB      SFM, Ship Survey   Contract to individuals               -  -
Ship Yard                     Survey Authority                        Authority            except Shantou SEZ)
Steel pair trawlera       Guangdong Fishing Boat        Guangdong BAP Ship             ICB      BFNM  Shio Survey    Contract to individuals               u -
Industry Co                   Survey Authority                        Authority
Huizhou
Icc plant/cotd store    Guargdong BAP Design Office   Capital Construction Sect      LC8      Huizhou SAP, GBAP   Nuiyang Aquatic Prod       Huiyarng Aquatic Prod
GEAP                                                        Supply ard Sales Co        Supply and Sales Co
Office                 *Guangdomg SAP Design Office   Capital Construction Sect      LCB      Huizhou BAP         Proj Office Nuizhou BAP    Nuizhou BAP
GBAP
lee plant/cold store    Guangdong SAP Design Office   Capital Construction Sect      LCB      Jiangmen BAP. GBAP  Taishan Aquatic            Taishan Aquatic
GBAP                                                        Products Co                Products Co
Macming
Ice ptant/cold store    Gusngdong SAP Design Office   Capital Construction Sec.      LCB      Maoming SAP. GBAP  Maoaing Aquatic             Macming Aquatic
GBAP                                                        Products Gen Co            Products Gen Co                       C
Office (400 .2)         Guangdong SAP Oesign Office   Capital Constnrction Sect      LCS      Maoming RAP, GBAP  Project Office              Macming SAP
GBAP                         M.acming BAP
Shantou
Ice plant/cold store    Guwngdng  AP Design Office   Capital Construction Sect       LCB      Shantou SAP, GBSP  Shantou Ocean Fishing Co  Shantou Ocean Fishing Co
GBAP
Wharf                   Shantou SEZ Design Inst       Capital Construction Sect      LCB      Shantou SE2 Design  Shantou Ocean Fishing Co  Shantou Ocean Fishing Co
GBAP                                    Inst & S Ocean Fish Co
Office (600 e2)         Guangdong BAP Design Office   Capital Corstruction Sect      LCB      Shantou BAP, GSAP  Project Office              Shantou SAP
CBAP                                                        Shantou SAP
Shwwei
Office (700 .2)         Guangdong SAP Design Office  Capital Construction Sect       LCD      Shanwei AP, GBAP  Project Office               Shanuei RAP
GBAP                                                        Shanwel SAP
Tangj iang
Office (600 .2)         Guanekdng SAP Design Office   Capital Construction Sect      LCD      Yangjiang BAP, G0AP Project Office             Yangjiang SAP
G3AP                                                        Tangjiang SAP
Zhuhai
Office (D0 .2)          Guangdong BAP Design Office   Capital Construction Sect      LCB      Zhuhai RAP, G8AP   Project Office              Zhuhai SAP 
GpuAP                                                       Zhuhai SAP
2han; f agtDt
lee ptant/cold store    GuwVdanad    BAP Design Office   Capital Construction Sect   LCB      2hanjiang BAP, GBAP Zhanjiang Aq Prod          Zhanjisng Aq Prod
G8AP                                                        Supply & Sales Co          Suppty & Sales Co      O -
Office (450 .2)         Guangdong BAP Design Office   Cepital Construction Sect      LCB      Zhanjiang SAP, G8AP Project Office             Zhanjiang Aq Prod      Iti
/a Bureau of Fisheries Management                          GBAP                                                        Zhanjiang SAP              Supply & Sales Co      .C



RtESP(ISIBILITli FOR PROJECT DESIGN AND IPLEIEATYION
Construction          Operationr
Design                 Design Review      Construction      Supervision           Management                      Ownership
2. AlUACUTURE
Suilhou
Net cges (4.200 mr)  County Aquaculture             GBAP end Hui:hou BAP    Farmers       iHuizhou and Co POs Contract 9 cages(househotd Huidong County FOC
Technical Extens Station (TES)
Jlanbne
FenghuoJia BIUF        Mmi  BA? & County            GAP arid Jiarge3n SAP         LCS      Jiengarn Aquacutt  Contract 1.2 hp/household  Fenghuojia Aquaculture Base Co
(Ponds and seadikes)   Hydroelectric Bureau          u/seadike design rev by PRVRC         Resources Dev Co /a
(JARDC) /a
Feeddill               Design Office, GBAP          GSAP and Jiartgaen BAP        LCB             JAROC                 JAROC                          JARDC
Hatchery              NMIi SAP                      GSA? a   Jiangmen BAP         LCB             JAROC                 JAROC                          JARDC
Vanan BYF             iftai BAP a                   GBAP wnd Jiangmen SAP         LCB             JAROC       Contract 1.2 ha/househoLd Ainan Aqu2culture Base Co.
(Ponds and seadikes)   County Hydroetectric Sureav   w/seadike design rev by PRURC
Shantou
Marine cages           County Aquaculture TES       GSAP ond Shantou BAP         Farmers   Shantou and Co POs Contract 9 cages/household Nanao & Raoping branches
of Shantou Muni Fishery Co
FP fish ponds          Coumty BAP and Nydroetec Bur GBAP and Shentou BAP          LCB      Shantou and Co POs Contract 1.2 he/household  Cheoyang & Chenghal brenches    I
of Shantou Mtmi Fishery Co
FW cages               Coiuty Aquaculture TES       GSA? and Shantou 8AP        Farmers   Shantou and Co POs Contract 9 cages/household Jieyeng & Puning branches        Co
of Shantou Muni Fishery Co
Feed Gilt              Shantou SEZ Conct Design OfficProv and rmi POs             LCB      Shantou and Co POs                           Shcntou Muni Fishery Co
Shanuel
Shriip ponds           County BAP and Hydroetect Bur GSAP and Shanwei SAP         LCR      Shanwei and Co POs Contract I ha/household   Naifeng & Lufeng County Aquac.
Gyster farm            Aquacult Tech. Ext Station    GSAP ad Shanwei BAP        Farmers   Shanwei and Co POs Contract 2 ha/household   Naifeng & Lufeng Aquac. Cos.
Feed mill              Design Office, GSAP          GA? arPd Shartei BAP          LC8      Sharieei and Ca POs Shanwei Generat Fishery   Haifeng Fishery Pellet Feed Nit
Develoument Co
Shriep hatchery        Design Office, GBAP          GSAP end Shrwei SAP           LCB      Shameei and Co POs Contract for operation     Lufeng County Aquaculture Co
Zhaoqing
UW Ponds               County BAP and Hydroetect Bur GBAP and Zhaoqing BAP        LCB      Zhaoqing PO        Contract 1.2 ha/household Dinghu District Fishery Co
Zhual
Karine cages           County Aquaculture TES       GBAP and Zhuhai BAP         Farmers   Zhuhal Aquacutt Co Contract 9 cages/household llanshan District Marine Culture
SBl ponrs (Nodaomen)    Nodaeuen Comprehensive Dev Co GBAP and Zhuhai BAP         LCB      Modaceen Ciprehen- Contract 1.2 ha/household Modaomen Comprehensive Dev Co
w/beadike design rev by PRYRC         ive Devel Co /a
SW pords (Leizhu)      Comnty Reclamation Gen Co    GSAP and Zhuhal BA?           LCB      Leizhu Aq Dev Co /a Contract 1.2 ha/household  Leizhu Aquaculture Dev Co
v/seadike design rev by PRWRC
SU pords (Qiao)        Design Office,               GBAP and Zhuhai BAP           LCB      Zhuhai Reclmation  Contract 1.2 ha/household  Zhuhai Muni Aquaculture Dev Co
Guangzhou Engineering Office   w/seadike design rev by PRIRC        Headquarters /a
SW ponds (Xiazha)      Design Office,               GBAP and Zhuhai BAP           LCB      Zhuhai Recltmation Contract 1.2 ha/household  Zhuhai Agriculture Reclamation
Guangzhou Engineering Office   u/seadike design rev by PR%RC        Headquarters /a                                                       i
/a With construction review by PRIIRC                                                                                                                              (D 
t4 e
0
Mih



GAD15.RESPON
RESPOUSIBILITY FOQ DESIGN AND IMPLENENTATION
Construction           Operation/
Design                   Design Review        Construction      Supervision             Management                        Ownership
3. AGROPROCESSING
Guuigzhou Frozen           hinistry of Light Industry    G'zhou Construction ap           LCB                ?           New caqpany                 Guangzhou Our of Agriculture
Fruit 2 Veg. Plant         Design Institute, Gumngzhou                                                                                              & Zengcheng County
Shenzhen Frozen            Ministry of Light Industry    Shenzhen Cons Bur  &             LCB       Shenzhen Con Bur    New company                  Sh. Fr & Veg Trading Co & SRCAS
Fruit & Veg. Plnt          Design Institute, Guangzhou   Guangdong University
Shenzhen Yoghurt           "han Steel Design Inst &       Shenzhen Con Bur & South        LCB       Shenzhen Con Bur    New company                  Huo Li Bao Co, SRCAS, Guangdong
Drink Plant                Nuo Li Rao Company             China Technology Univ                                                                      Water Resouroes Bureeu
Shentao Fruit Drink        Sherkso Canned Food Co         Shenzhen Con Bur                LCU       Shenzhen Con Bur    New company                  Sheribao Canned Food Co B SRCAS
Shenzhen Spirulina         South China Ocean Research    Shenzhen Con Bur                 LCB       Shenzhen Con Bur                 ?                                ?
Natural Medicine Factory  Institute & Shenzhen Shekou
Neptunus Enterprise & Shenzhen
Ocean Heatth Food Co.
Shenzhen Feed Additive    Guangdong Institute of          Shenzher. Con Bur               LCB       Shenzhen Con Bur    State Farm South Compary   SRCAS, State Farm, &
Factory                    Agricultural Machinery Research                                                                                          Huachang Feed Co Ltd..
Shenzhen Foodstuff         Shenzhen Rice & Ftour Product Shenzhen con Bur                 LCB       Shenzhen Con Bur                                SRCAS & Shenzhen Rice
Processing Factory         Plant                                                                                                                     and Flour Product Co          00
Zhuhai Fish Cannery        Design Office, SAP                          ?                  LCB                ?                       ?               Zhuhai Aquatic Prods Corp      I
Shanwel Lufeng Jingnan    Guangdong University            Expert to be contracted         LCB       Shanwei Con Bur                  ?               Lufeng County Agr Comm
Fruit Production Co
Lianshan Rosin Processing Chinese Acadewy of Science    Forest Chemical B                 LCB                7                       7               Forestry Bureau Lianshan Coumty
& Perfumery Factory        (Guangdong) and Zhongshan UnivEngineering General Corp
MaQming Longan Drying      Institute of Energy                         ?                  LCD                ?            aacming Fruit Development  Kaouing Fruit Devel Corp
Factory                    Conservation                                                                                 Corporation
Meizhou Lonsan Drying                     7                            7                  LCD                ?          Neizhou Fruit Development Maoming Fruit Devet Corp
Factories                                                                                                               Corporation
x
0o 
Fh



RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROJECT DESIGN AND INPLENIENTATIOSI
Construction          Operatior/
Design                 Design Review       Construction      Supervision            Management                    Ouiership
4. AGRICULTItiE
I.daoen Land Recim        Pearl River Uater Resources             PRURC                LCB      Kodaseo- Cowrehensi          NCDC           Zhuhai huni Government
Comission (PRWRC)                                                    DevetopmenK Corp
CNCDC) /a
Panyu Land Recta.         Pearl River Water Resources             PR1RC                LCB     Panyu Reclaiset ion &         PRDC           Guangzhou Nsf  Goverrcent
Comission (PRI*C)                                                    Devetopment Corp
(PROC) /a
Nauing Longan & Litchi
Training Center       I Maowing Hydropower Design    PMl and Nasming FDC,           LCB      M. Construction Conm       Mausing FDC      KRmicikjal 1 county goverraments
Collection centers    ) Section of M. ttater Resources N. Construction Couission.                                       County FDCs
field houses          ) & Power Bureau               M. Planning Comission
eilzhou Poneto & Longan
Tech Ext Center       ) Xirwning County Const Design Keiihou City Construction      LCB      Neizhou Construction       Ieizhou FDC       Nunicipal & county goverrents
Collection centers    ) Section of C'imty ConstructiorWesign Institute                       Corneittee & N. Cons       County FDCs
Welts, fietdhouses    ) Comittee                                                             Bank
Guangbzh Litchl
02
/a With construction review by PwIEC 
Ph
01-



A.NNEX  8
- 84 -                               Table I
CHINA                                 Page  1 of 2
Guangdong Agiccultural Develofnent Project
. . ................ ..... ........ .
Farm Models
*.. .... .... .. . .... .... ... ... ... .. . ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
-------Project Year---------------.--------- .-----------------------------------
Present    1     2      3     4     5     6      7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14 15/20
..........................
Model A: Meizhou Pomelo Improvement a/
. . ..... ... .. .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . .
Gross Value of Production
Tree Crops                   0     0  1248  3245  4992  7211  9984 11232 11232 11232 11232 11232 11232 11232 11232 i1232
Field Crops               1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332  1332
Subtotal                  1332  1332  2580  4576  6324  8542 11316 12564 12564 12564 12564 12564 12564 12564 12564 12564
Production Expenditures
Tree Crops                 445  1685  1177  1173  1298  1351  1449  1491  1491  1558  1558  1558  1558  1558  1558  1558
FieLd Crops                311   311   311   311   311   311   311   311   311   311   311   311   311   311   311   311
Subtotal                   756  1996  1488  1485  1609  1662  1760  1802  1802  1869  1869  1869  1869  1869  1869  1869
Net Farm Incomes            575  -664  1091  3092  4714  6880  9555 10762 10762 10694 10694 10694 10694 10694 10694 10694
Side Incomes                 58   115   115    58    58    58    58    58    58    58    58    58    58    58    58    58
Total Household Incomes    633  -549  1207  3149  4772  6938  9613 10819 10819 10752 10752 10752 10752 10752 10752 10752
Labor Requirement           210   350   350   220   241   272   298   319   319   319   319   319   319   319   319   319
Return to Laborday            3    -2      3    14    20    25    32    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34    34
Model 8:  Maoming Litchi imprv.ement b/
Gross Value of Production
Tree Crops                   0     0      0  1040  1386  2079  2426  2772  3465  3465  3850  4158  4774  5544  5544  5544
Field Crops               1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775  1775
Subtotal                  1775  1775  17 5  2814  3161  3854  4200  4547  5240  5240  5625  5933  6549  7319  7319  7319
Production Expenditures
Tree Crops                  78   611   531   554   584   622   689   718   742   756   773   761   761   761   761   761
Field Crops                547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547
Subtotal                   625  1157  1078  1100  1131  1168  1235  1265  1289  1303  1320  1307  1307  1307  1307  1307
Net Farm Incomes           1150   617   697  1714  2030  2686  2965  3282  3951  3937  4305  4626  5242  6012  6012  6012
Side Incomes                230   345   345   345   345   345   345   345   345   345   345   345   345   345   345   345
Total Household Incomes   1380   963  1042  2059  2375  3031  3310  3627  4296  4282  4650  4971  5587  6357  6357  6357
Labor Requirement           160   209   174   167   168   169   171   173   173   178   181   181   181   181   181   181
Return to Laborday            9     5      6    12    14    18    19   21    25    24    26    27    31    35    35    35
Model C: Maoming Litchi New C/
...... ... ....................
Gross Value of Production
Tree Crops                   0     0     0      a     0  1386  1733  2079  2426  2772  3465  3465  3850  4158  4774  5544
Field Crops               2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  271.3
Subtotal                  2783  2783  2783  2783  2783  4169  4515  4862  5208  5555  6248  6248  6633  6941  7557  8327
Production Expenditures
Tree Crops                   0   852   323   352   435   505   505   642   642   709   709   709   709   709   709   709
Field Crops                547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547   547
Subtotal                   547  1399   869   898   982  1051  1051  1188  1188  1256  1256  1256  1256  1256  1256  1256
Net Farm Incomes           2236  1384  1914  1885  1801  3118  3464  3674  4020  4299  4992  4992  5377  5685  6301  7071
Side Incomes                224   224   224   224   224   224   224   224   224   224   224   224   224   224   224   224
Total Household Incomes   2460  1608  2137  2108  2025  3341  3688  3897  4244  4523  5216  5216  5601  59u9  6525  7295
Labor Requirement           129   209   174   167   168   169   171   173   173   178   181   181   181   181   181   181
Return to Labor              19     8    12    13    12    20    22    23    24    25    29    29    31-   33    36    40
, ....... ........................... ............ ........................ ....................................................................
a/ Modal A; Pomelo hou',ehold In Meizhou engaged in ifprovement.  Averge land holding is 0.55 ha per household
which includes 0.13 ha of rice, 0.05 ha of sweet potato, 0.02 ha of vegetables and 0.35 ha of pomelo.
b/  Model 8: Litchi household In Maoming engaged in improvement.  Average land hotding per household is about 0.37 ha
which includes 0.13 ha of rice, 0.04 ha of sweet potato, 0.03 ha of vegatables,0.03 ha of sugarcane and 0.14 ha of Litchi
c/  ModeL C: Litchi household in Meoming establishing new orchard. Average Land holding per household is about 0.23 ha
without the project end 0.37 ha with project which includes 0.13 ha of rice, 0.04 ha of sweet potato, 0.03 ha of
vegetables, 0.03 ha of sugarcane and 0.14 ha of litchi.



ANNEX  8
-85 -                                        Table i
CHINA                                       Page 2  of 2
Guangdong Agricultural Oevelopment Project
............. ............... .
Farm Models
------Project Year ----.-----------------------------                ..................
Present    1      2     3     4     5      6     7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14 152ze
Model D: Maeoming Longan Improvement d/
................. . ...... .. ........ ............. .
Gross Value of Production
Tree Crops                   0     0      0   362   903  1633  1633  2536  2533  3623  36Z3  5434  6400  7245  7245  7245
Field Crops               2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448
Subtotal                  2448  2448  2448  2811  335Z  4081  4081  4984  4982  6071  6071  7882  8848  9693  9693  9693
Production Expenditures
Tree Crops                 109   606   569   554   584   622   689   718   718   718   773   773   773   773   773   773
FieLd Crops                596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596
Subtotal                   705  1202  1165  1150  1181  1218  1285  1315  1315  1315  1370  1370  1370  1370  1370  1370
Net Farm Incomes           1744  1247  1283  1661  2171  2863  2796  3670  3667  4756  4701  6513  :479  8324  8324  832b4
Side Incomes                174   262   262   262   262   262   262   262   262   262   262   262   262   262   262   262
TotaL Household Incomes   1918  1508  1545  1922  2433  3125  3057  3931  3929  5018  4963  6774  7740  8585  8585  8585
Labor Requirement           246   292   257   250   250   251   253   256   256   260   264   264   264   264   264   264
Return to Labor               8      5     6     8    10    12    12    15    15    19    19    26    29    33    33    33
Model E: Maoming Longan New e/
...... ......... ......... ........................
Gross Value of Productlo
Tree Crops                   0     0      0     0     0   942   942  1704  1704  2646  2646  3780  5670  5670  6678  7560
Field Crops               2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448
SubtotaL                  2448  2448  2448  2448  2448  3391  3391  4152  4152  5094  5094  6228  8118  8118  9126 10008
Production Expenditures
Tree Crops                   0   852   323   352   435   505   505   642   642   709   709   709   709   709   709   709
FieLd Crops                596   596   596   596   59    596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596   596
Subtotat                   596  1449   919   948  1031  1101  1101  1238  1238  1305  1305  1305  1305  1305  1305  1305
Net Farm Incomes           1852  1000  1530  1501  1417  229G  2290  2914  2914  3789  3789  4923  6813  6813  7821  8703
Side Incomes                278   278   278   278   278   278   278   278   278   278   278   278   278   278   278   278
Total Household Incomes   2130  1278  1807  1778  1695  2568  2568  3192  3192  4067  4067  5201  7091  7091  8099  8981
Labor Requirement           211   365   254   249   249   250   252   255   256   259   264   264   267   269   271   274
Return to Lebor              10     3      7     7     7    10    10    13    14    16    15    20    27    26    30    33
Model F: Panyu Sugarcane Improvement  f/
....................... ..................................... .......... 
Gross Value of Production
Tree Crops                   0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0
Field Crops              11880 13200 18755 21395 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328
Subtotal                 11880 13200 18755 21395 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328 25328
Production Expenditures
Tree Crops                   0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0     0
Field Crops               7025  7606  8873  9948 11340 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180
Subtotal                  7025  7606  8873  9948 11340 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180 11180
Net Farm Incomes           4855  5594  9882 11447 1I987 14147 14147 14147 14147 14147 14147 14147 14147 14147 14147 14147
Side Incomes                243   280   494   572   699   707   707   707   707   707   707   707   707   707   707   707
Total Household Incomes   5098  5874 10376 12019 14686 14854 14854 14854 1854 1t4854 14854 14854 14854 14854 14854 14854
Labor Requirement           320   320   435   463   499   499   499   499   499   499   499   499   499   499   499   499
Return to Labor              16    18    24    26    29    30    30    30    30    30    30    30    30    a0    30    30
.. .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. . ................      ........ . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .
d/ Model 0: Longan household in Maomiing engaged In lmprovement. Average land holding per household is about 0.59 ha
which includes 0.20 ha of rice, 0.07 ha of sweet potato, 0.05 ha of vegetables.0-13 ha of peanut and 0.14 ha of longan.
e/ Model E: Longan household in Maoming establishing new orchard. Average lend holding per household is
about 0.45 ha without the project and 0.59 he with project which includes 0.20 ha of rice, 0.07 ha oi sweet potato,
0.05 ha of vegetables,0.13 ha of peanut and 0.14 ha of longan.
f; Model F: Sugarcane Household in Panyu, average land holding is about 1 ha.
Farmers have no intercropping now and will plant cabbage on 1/3 of sugarcane area.
g/  Model G: Qit.,yuan Ramie household with averago land of 0.27 ha presently producing ramfe.
Ramie will be replanted every 7 years.



-  86 -
ANUNEX-8
CHINA                                                     Table  2
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELO,IENT PROJECT
Marine Fisherias - Distribution of Income
Steel TrawLers (Pr)         Steel Refrig. Trawler          --- Purse Seiner---
No.      Point       Amount           No.  Point      Amount       No.  Point      Amount
Crew      Share      (Y'OOO)          Crew  Share    (YOOO)       Crew  Share    (Y'O0O)
Captain                   2         3.6    17,181.8              1    1.8    9,980.2          1    1.8    6,226.4
Chief Officer             2         3.4    16,227.3              1    1.7    9,425.7          1    1.5    5,188.7
Chief Engineer            2         3.2    15,272.7              1    1.6    8,871.3          1    1.8    6,226.4
Second Engineer           2         2.4    11,454.5             2    2.4   13,306.9           1    1.5    5,188.7
Chief Catcher             2         2.8    13,363.6             2    2.8   15,524.8           1    1.2    4,150.9
First class crew          6         7.2    34,363.6             3    3.6   19,960.4          14   21.4   74,025.2
Second class crew         6         6.6    31,500.0             3    3.3   18,297.0           2    1.8    6,226.4
Third class crew          6         6.0    28,636.4             3    3.0   16,633.7           1    0.8    2,767.3
Total                  28          35   168,000.0            16      20  112,000.0         22     32  110,000.1
Average/person                            6,000.0                          7,000.0                       5,000.0



- 87 -
ANNEX 8
CHINA                                                 Table  3
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marine Fisheries - Operating Costs of Vessels
Steel Trawlers (Pr)       Steel Refrig. Trawler       ---Purse Seiner---
Unit       Unit      Oty   Amount         Unit    Qty   Amount          Unit    Qty   Amount
Price           (Y'000)        Price          (Y'000)       Price          (Y'000)
1.   Diesel oil            t /a           700    37.4      26.2          700   30.1      21.1         700    9.2       6.4
t /b         1,500   711.4  1,067.0         1,500  571.8    857.7        1,500  173.9    260.8
2.   Lubricating oiL       t            2,200      23      49.5        2,200   18.1      39.7       2,200    5.5      12.1
3.   Ice                   t            1,500     133    199.5                            0.0       1,500   48.0      72.0
4.   Net repLacement       set        55,700        2    111.4       71,300    1.0       71.3      55,300    1.0      55.3
5.   Ship huLL repair    is                               218.0                         129.5                         37.0
6.   Equipment repair    ls                                96.6                          74.3                         40.0
7.   Wages                 pyr          6,000      28    168.0         7,000   16.0    112.0        5,000   22.0    110.0
8.   Taxes /c                      3,434,600      5.0%   171.7   2,555,000    5.0%   127.8  1,137,300    5.0%    56.9
9.   Management fee /d             3,434,600      2.0%    68.7   2,555,000    2.0%    51.1  1,137,300    2.0%    22.7
10.  Insurance /e                  4,616,000      2.0%    92.3   4,286,000    2.0%    85.7  1,244,300    2.5%    31.1
11.  Port fund /f                        4.8   1,240        6.0          4.8   1000       4.8           5    412       2.0
12.  Fishery resource fee /g       3,434,600   0.125%       4.3   2,555,000  0.125%       3.2  1,137,300  0.125%       1.4
13.  Food                  pday             8    7000      56.0            8  4,475      35.8           8  4,400      35.2
14.  Water                                2.0    1140       2.3          2.0    700       1.4         2.0    800       1.6
15.  Interest on working capitaL                           12.9                           9.1                          3.5
TotaL                                             2,350.4                       1,624.5                        748.0
/a   State price for 5% of fueL
lb   Free market price for 95% of fuel
/c   5% of production value
/d   2% of production vaLue
/e   2.0 - 2.5% of construction cost; covers property and life insurance of Y20,000/crew member
/f   Y4.8/hp
/g   0.125% of production value
Source: Marine Fisheries Feasibility Study Table 28



-  88  -                                           ANEX  8
CHINA                                 Table  4
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marine Fisheries - Operation Assumptions
Steel Trawler       Refrigerated   Purse Seiner
Steel Trawler
1.  Time spent travelling between port and fish grounds (days/month)                   4                  4               3
2.  Time spent search for schools of fish (days/month)                                 0                  0                1
3.  Time spent selling fish, loading oil, ice, water (days/month)                      3                  2                3
4.  Time spent in maintenance and repair (days/month%                                3.5                  3                3
5.  Loss of time due to bad weather (days/month)                                       3                  2             6.5
6.  Time in fishing operations (days/month)                                         16.8               19.0            13.5
7.  Time in fish operations (days/yr)                                                202                228             162
8.  Time spent travelling and fishing (days/yr)                                      250                276              198
9.  Number of trips/yr                                                                19                 14              40
10. Average length of trip                                                            13                 20               5
11. Net casts per 24 hours                                                             5                  4             3.5
12. Maxinsmi output per net (t)                                                        7                  5              25
13. Mininun output per net (t)                                                       0.6                0.4             0.2
14. Average output per net (t)                                                      1.29               0.77            0.86
15. Average output per day (t)                                                       6.5                3.1             3.0
16. Average output per year (t)                                                     1300 /a             700             488
/a  Output for pair of trawlers (2)
Source: Marine Fisheries Feasibility Study Table 32



-  89 -                                          EX  9
Table 1
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
22-May-91
Summary of Economic and Financial Analysis
Sensitivity Analysis
ERR   FRR   ERR   FRR   ERR   FRR   ERR   FRR
........................................................................................
InvestmenOperating Co    Revenue
Base Cas    +10%          +10%              -10%
Marine Fishery
..............
Wooden Purse Seiners                       25%   30%   23%   27%   19%   24%   15%   21%
Steel Pair Trawlers                        22%   24%   20%   22%   16%   18%   12%   14%
Steel Refrigerated Trawlers                29%   26%   22%   19%   20%   17%   15%   13%
Marine Cold Store
Maoming Cold storage                       25%   24%   23%   22%   24%   23%   20%   20%
Jiangmen                                  32%   33%   29%   30%   30%   32X   27%   28%
Zhanjiang                                  25%   24%   22%   21%   21%   22%   18%   19%
Shantou                                    29%   18%   27%   16%   28%   17%   24%   14%
Huizhou                                    23%   18%   20%   15%   21%   15%   18%   13%
Aquaculture
...........
Marine Net Cage (Huizhou)                  52%   47%   48%   43%   47%   42%   42%   37%
Fresh Water Net Cage (Shantou)            50%   46%   46%   42%   38%   34%   34%   29%
Fresh Water Pond (Zhaoqinp)               23%   17%   20%   15%   19%   12%   16%   10%
Brackishwater-High Salin!ty (Xiaozha)   22%   19%   20%   17%   19%   16%   17%   14%
Brackishwater-Low SalIniny (Modaomen)   38%   36%   35%   34%   32%   31%   29%   28%
Shrinp (Shanwel)                          39%   35%   36%   32%   33%   2S9   29%   25%
Oyster (Shanwel)                           27%   27%   25%   25%   25%   25%   23%   23%
Agriculture
Land Reclaimation
iodaomen-New                               15%   13%   14%   12%   14%   12%   13%   10%
lodaomen-Improvement                       47%   37%   43%   34%   36%   27%   29%   21%
Penyu-New                                  19%   16%   18%   15%   18%   15%   16%   14%
Panyu-Improvement                          38%   36%   35%   33%   32%   30%   26%   24%
Fruit Trees
Guangzhou-Litchi                            28%   29%   28%   29%   28%   26%   26%   24%
Maoming-Litchi                              27%   25%   2 %   25%   24%   22%   22%   20%
Maoming-Longan                              20%   18%   20%   18%   18%   16%   77%   15%
Melzhou- Longan                             26%   25%   26%   25%   24%   23%   23%   22%
Meizhou-Pomelo                             39%   37%   38%   36%   35%   33%   33%   30%
Agroprocessing
. .............
Guangzhou Xintang Frozen Vege/Fruit          21%   15%   19%   14%   14%    8%   12%    5%
Shenwei Lufeng Candied Fruit                 19%   17%   17%   16%   14%   12%   12%   10%
Shenzhen Frozen Fruit and Vegetable          27%   23%   25%   21%   22%   18%   20%   15%
Shenzhen Huolibao Yoghurt Drink              28%   25%   26%   23%   20%   19%   18%   16%
Shenzhen Shenbao Natural Fruft Drink         31%   24%   29%   22%   27%   20%   25%   18%
Shenzhen Spirulina Natural Medicine          27%   18%   25%   16%   25%   15%   22%   14%
Shenzhen BT Insecticide                      18%   16%   16%   15%   14%   13%   12%   11%
Shenzhen Feed Additives                      37X   32%   34%   30%   21%   16%   17%   13%
Shenzhen Meat Processing                     26%   22%   24%   20%   13%    8%   11%    4%
Shenzhen Footetuff Processing                39X   34%   37%   32%   16%    9%   13%    3%
Zhuhai Fish Carnery                          31%   23%   28%   21%   16%    3%   13%    1X
Qingyuan Lfanshan Rosin and Perfumery        36%   34%   29%   27%   29%   28%   26%   25%
Maoming Longaen Drying                       37%   29%   35%   27%   14%    7%   12%    3%
Meizhou Longon Drying                        36%   28%   33%   26%   12%    2%   18%   13%
Note: Project ERR: 28%X FRR: 25%
Detailed modeLs are in the proj2ct file.



- 90                                              ANNREX9
Table 2
CHINA
Guangdong Agricultural Development Project
Selected Conversion Factors
.. .   ............................................... ....................   ........................ ...................... ..........
Unit    Financial  Economic   Conversion
Price   Price     Price       Factor
Standard Conversion Factor a/                                        0.95
Labor
Unskilled                      Y/day            5        4.8       0.95
Skilled                        V/day           10        9.5       0.95
Energy
Electricity                    Y/kwh          0.5        1.0       2.00
Diesel                         Y/ton         1420        844       0.59
Steel                            Y/ton         2300       2196       0.95
Earthworks                                                           0.95
Structure                                                            1.10
Machinery/Equipment                                                  1.05
Transportation
Road                           Y/ton/km        25       37.5       1.50
Rail                           Y/ton/km        20         30       1.50
Consumption Converaion Factor b/                                     1.30
Fertilizer
Urea                           Y/ton         1200       1086       0.91
Rock Phosphate                 Y/ton          313        401       1.28
DAP                            Y/ton          970       1191       1.23
Pesticides                       Y/ton       40,000     40,000       1.00
Plastics                         Y/ton            4          4       1.00
Other non-traded inputs                                              0.95
Other traded goods                                                   1.05
................ .................................. .... . .... ........ ...... .. .. .... .........  
a/ (SCF)   (official rate/shadow rate) =(5.22/5.5) =0.95
b/ Weighted average of Econ/Fin prices of wheat, rice and other grains plus beef,
pork, and other animal products in 1991 price levels.



- 91 -                                           MNEX
Table 3
CHaNA
Guangdong Agricultural Development project
Farm Gate Prices of Selected Project Outputs and Inputs
Frozen   Live
Urea     Phosphate Sugar   Shrinp   Fish    Fish    Diesel   Lumber
a/      b/       c/       d/       e/       f'       g/       h/
...... .......... ................. ...................................  F.......................................... ........................... .....
Trade Status                           H        M        M        X        X        X        X        M
..... .......  t..... ......... .... ...... ........... ....................... . ..... ...... .. ..... ...... ....................................... . .......... ...........
1991 Prices
EPD price(085 pr)         S/ton          106      28      181    5766      1826    2358                137
EPD price(t91 pr)         S/ton         170       45      291    5793    2009    2594         207      151
Quality discount          X                1       1        1        1        1        1        1        1
Ocean Freight             S/ton          28       28       28        0        0        0      -28       28
CIF/FOB Guangzhou S       S/ton         199       73      319    5213      2009    2594       179      179
CIF/FOB Guangzhou Yuan    Y/ton        1035      382     1662   27161    10466    13514       930      933
Port charges & margin     Y/ton          52       19       83    -1358    -523    -676        -47       47
Rail trans. to project    Y/ton          19       19       19      -19      -19    -80'       -19       19
Road trans. to fLrm       Y/ton          -20     -20      -20      -20      -20    -200       -20      -20
Price ex-mill             Y/ton         1086     401     1444   25764    9903    11838        844      979
Processing adjustment     X                1       1    0.11         1        1        1        1        1
Milling cost less by-producY/ton          0        0     -300        0        0        0        0        0
Economic Price            Y/ton         1086     404      159   25764    9903    11838        844      979
Financial Price           Y/ton        1200      313      176   17250    6923       8000     1420      890
2000 Prices
EPD price('85 pr)         S/ton         120       31      223    5266    1826    2358           0      166
EPO price('91 pr)         S/ton         193       50      358    5793    2009    2594         207      183
Quality discount          X                1       1        1        1        1        1        1        1
Ocean Freight              S/ton         28       28       28        0        0        0      -28       28
CIF/FOB Guangzhou S       S/ton         221       78      386    5213      2009    2594       179      211
CIF/FOB Guangzhou Yuan    Y/ton         1152     407    2013   27161    10466    13514        930     1099
Port charges & margin     Y/ton          58       20      101    -1358    -523      -676      -47        0
Rail trans. to project     Y/ton         19       19       19      -19      -19    -800       -19       19
Road trans. to farm       Y/ton          -20     -20      -20      -20      -20    -200       -20      -20
Price ex-mill             Y/ton        1209      427     1813   25764    9903    11838        844     1099
Processing adjustment     X                1       1    0.11         1        1        1        1        1
Milling cost less by-producY/ton          0        0     -300        0        0        0        0        0
Economic Price             Y/ton       1209      427      199   25764    9903    11838        844    1099
Financial Price           Y/ton        1217      410      199   25869    9903    11838        844     1099
a/ Bagged, FOB, N.W. Euro~pe
b/ Phosphate Rock(Moroccan), 72X BPL, FAS Casablanca
c/ ISA Daily price, FOB and stowed at greater Caribbean ports
d/ China Custom Statistics, March, 1991
e/ China Custom Statistics, March, 1991
f/ China Custom Statistics, March, 1991
g/ Singapore, CIF, IECIT, World Bank, March 1991
h/ Log, Malaysian, Japan CIF
i/ Steel plate composite, Price index from Japan
Note: EPD projections based on the latest January 1991 issue.



_ 92 -                            ANNEX9
Table 4
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Historical Farm Gate Prices of Project Inputs and Outputs in Guangdong
(Y/Ton)
....... ........... .....  ...................................... ......................................................... ....
% change
1986    1987    1988       1989     1990    1986-90
....... .............    ....... ....................... ............. .................................... ......
Sugarcane /a                 71        76       95      150      140       18.5%
Sugar /b                   1,413    1,381    2,502    3,060    2,520       15.6%
Litchi /c                  3,650   4,000    5,600    5,500    6,800        16.8%
Longan /d                  2,200    3,200   3,800    4,000   4,500         19.6%
Pometo                     1,240    1,760   2,100    3,125    3,600        30.5%
Dried Longan              30,000  32,000  33,000   34,000   35,000          3.9%
Tiger Prawn               55,000   74,000  60,000                           4.4%
Shrimp /e                 20,000   24,000  26,000   24,000                  6.3%
Silver Carp /e             2,600    2,800   3,200    3,500                 10.4%
Bighead Carp /e            2,600    2,800   3,200   3,500                  10.4%
Grouper /e                70,000  82,000  85,000   83,000                   5.5%
Sea Bass /e               52,000   52,000  49,000   51,000                 -0.6%
Sea Bream /e              30,000   32,000  35,000   38,000                  8.2%
Urea /d                      690      700    1,020    1,000    1,170       14.1%
Coffound FertiLizer /d       560    1,140    1,410    1,450    1,450       26.9%
Phosphate                    230      270      310      400      380       13.4%
s/ Average price for Guangdong province.  Project area prices of
sugar cane is Y176 for Panyu and Y130 for Modaomen
b/ Not produced in the project. Information onLy.
c/ Average price for aLL varieties. Some varieties prices are
as high as Y12-20/kg, the most expensive variety is Nuomichi.
d/ Free market price
e/ Average price



CHYNA
Guangdong Agricultural Development Project
-------------------------------------------
Average prices of Major Imports and Exports
.989                              1                       1990
Unit   Quantity    Value   Ave.price    Quantity        Value  Ave.price    % Change
Exports                     (ton)      (US$000)  (S/ton)        (ton)    (US$000)  (S/ton)        1989/90
Rosin              ton       193,098    105,740        548       119,685    61,280        512        -7.0%
Frozen Fish        ton        30,696     70,460      2,295        31,629    78,110      2,470         7.1%
Frozen Prawn       ton        59,450    367,360      6,179        44,021   272,690      6,195         0.2%
Fresh Vegetables   ton       495,130    151,720        306       352,996   117,730        334         8.1%
Imports
Sugar              ton    1,580,635    429,790         272       826,643   285,950        346        21 4%
Log                M3      5,970,000    589,570         99    2,770,000   291,640         105         6.2%
Urea               ton    7,940,709   1,169,790        147    6,265,559   854,070         136        -8.1%
Steel(galvanized)   ton      550,000    396,510        721       180,000   129,160        718        -0.5%
------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-------------------------------
Source: China's Customs Statistics
Ln \



-  94 -
CHINA                                               EX1
29-Apr-91                     GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                Table  I
Key Monitoring Indicators                                 Page  1 of 2
SAR    CumulativePlanned   Actual    Actual    Actual   Actual
Units     Target This Year This Year 1st Year  2nd Year  3rd Year 4th Year
A.  MARINE FISHERIES
1. Fishing vessels in o),4ration
Steel pair trawler          ea
Wood purse seiner           ea
Refrigerated trawler        ea
2.  Support fa-ilities
Cold stores/ice plant
Construction complete    m2
In operation              no
Buildings & offices
Construction eowplete    m2
In operation              no
Wharf
Construction complete    X
In operation              no
B. AQUACULTURE
1. Brackish water ponds
a. Jiangmen
Sea dikes                   m
Pond development            ha
Cold stores                 no
b. Zhuhai
Sea dikes                   m
Pond development            ha
Cold stores                 no
2. Freshwater ponds
a. Shantou
Pond development            ha
b. Zhuhai
Pond development            ha
3. Marine net cages
a. Huizhou
Sea dikes                   m
Cages constructed           no
Cold stores in operatio    no
Offices constructed         m3
b. Shantou
Cages constructed           no
c. Zhuhai
Cages constructed           no
4.  Freshwater cages   Shantou
Cages constructed           no
5. Shrimp ponds - Shanwei
Sea dikes                   m
Pond development            ha
6. Oyster beds - Shanwei
Offices                     m
Area cultivated             ha
7. Hatcheries
Facility completed          %
8.  Feednills
Facility conpleted          X
C. AGRICULTURE - ORCHARD DEVELOPMENT
1. Orchard establishment
Maoming - Litchi            ha
Maoming - Longan            he
Meizhou - Longan            he
Guangzhou   Litchi          ha
2. Orchard improvement
Maoming - Litchi            he
Macming - Longan            ha
Meithou - Longen            ha
Meizhou - Pamelo            ha
Guangzhou - Litchi          ha
3. Collection centers, warehouses
Construction completed      m3
Construction completed      no



-  95 -                                        ANNEX-10
CHINA                                          Table  1
29-Apr-91                     GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT               Page 2 of 2
Key Monitoring Indicators
BAR    CumulativePlanned   Actual    Actual    Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual
Units     Target This Year This Year 1st Year  2nd Year  3rd Year 4th Year 5th Year 6th Year
D. AGRICULTURE - L^ND RECLANATION
1. Panyu - Wanqingshawei - new
Seedikes completed          m
Le-d development            ha
2. Panyu - Wanqingshawei - improved
Seadikes completed          m
Land development            ha
3. Panyu - N. Jibaosha - new
Seadikes completed          m
Land development            ha
4. Penyu - N. Jibaosha - improved
Seadikes completed          m
Land development            ha
5. Panyu - S. Jibaosha - new
Seadikes completed          m
Land development            ha
6.  Modaomen - Sanzaowan - Irproved
Seadikes completed          m
Land development            ha
7.  Modaomen - Bailonghe - new
Seadikes completed          m
Land development            ha
E. AGROINDUSTRY
1. Guangzhou Fruit/Vegetable Freezing
Buildings completed         m2
Equipment procured          X
Capacity utilization        X
2. Lufeng Candied Fruit
Buildings completed         m2
Equipment procured          X
Capacity utilization        X
3. Shenzhen Feed Additive
Buildings comipleted        m2
Equipment procured          X
Capacity utilization        X
4. Shenzhen Fruit Beverage
5 - 18. Other agroindustry plants
Buildings completed
Equipmnt procured
Capacity utilization
F. POVERTY ALLEVIATION
1.  Studies                   YOOO
2.  Infrastructure            YOOO
3. Development credits        YOOO
G. TRAINING, RESEARCH, AND TECH ASSISTANCE  /a
1. Marine Fisheries
Local training             pMOS
overseas study tours       pmos
Foreign consultants        pmos
2. Aquaculture
Local training             pnos
overseas study tours       pmos
Foreign corsultants        pmos
3. Agriculture - Orchards
Local training             pmos
overseas study tours       pm.s
Foreign consultents        pmos
4. Land Recltamtion
Local training             pmos
Overseas study tours       pmns
Foreign consultants        pTOS
S. Agroindustry
Local training             pmos
Overseas study tours       pmos
Foreign consultants        pmas
/a  All training activities should Indicate gender of trainees



- 96 -
AXNNEX 10
Table 2
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Bank/IDA Supervision Input
Proposed                                                                             Staff
Dates                            Activity                              Skill         Input
(month/yr)                                                        Requirements       (SW)
09/91         PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP.
Review of procurement, financiaL management, Procurement Spec.            2
reporting and M & E.                            Financial Mgmt            2
02/92         SUPERVISION MISSION
Review of agriculture, Land reclamation,        Agriculturist             2
finaL design for agroindustries, poverty        Engineer                  2
aLLeviation program                             Agroindustry Spec.        2
09/92         SUPERVISION MISSION
Review of aquaculture, land reclamation,        Marine resource Spec.   2
agroinaustries                                  AquacuLturist             2
02/93         SUPERVISION MISSION
Review of fishery technology, agroindustry,  Fishery TechnoLogist    2
poverty aLleviation                             Agroirndustry Spec.       2
09/93         SUPERVISION MISSION
Review of aquaculture, Land recLamation         AquacuLturist             2
Engineer                 2
02/94         SUPERVISION MISSION
Mid-term review                                 Marine resource Spec.   2
AquacuLturist             2
Fishery TechnoLogist    2
Agriculturist             2
Engineer                  2
1995-1998    Supervision missions at least once/year.
Last mission to discuss preparation of
Project Completion Report



97 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGROCULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A.    General reports and studies on the sector or sub-sector
Al.   Fishery Law of the Peoples Republic of China
A2.   Federal Register - Guidelines for Fishery Management Plans
B.    General reports and studies relating to the project
B1.   Guangdong Agricultural Development Project, No. 64/90 CP-CPR 37, FAO/CP,
Preparation Report, May 28, 1990 (Two Volumes)
B2.   Appraisal of Potential Yield for Fishery Resources in the South China
Sea Off Guangdong Province, Loh-Lee Low (Consultant), November 1990.
B3.   Engineering Aspects, Cheong, Chup Lim (Consultant), March 1991.
B4.   Aquaculture Component, Chen, Lo Chai (Consultant(, February 1991.
B5.   Agroprocessing Component, C. Cronberg (Consultant), March 1990.
B6.   Marketing Aspects, M. Blaxall (Consultant), July 1990.
B7.   Marine Engineering, G. Breekveldt (Consultant), July and October 1990.
B8.   Feasibility Study of Guangdong Agricultural Project, Guangdong
Provincial Government, January 1991.
B9.   Feasibility Study of Aquaculture Component, Guangdong Provincial
Government, January 1991.
BIl.  Feasibility Study of Agriculture Component, Guangdong Provincial
Government, January 1991.
Bli.  Feasibility Study of Marine Fisheries Component, Guangdong Provincial
Government, January 1991.
B12.  Environmental Impact Assessment, Zhongshan University for Guangdong
Provincial Government, October 1991.
b13.  Supplementary Monitoring Plan of Fisheries Resources in Northern South
China Sea, South China Seas Fishery Research Institute, January 1991.
C.    Selected Working Papers
Cl.   Aquaculture - Cost estimates, operating costs and financial and economic
analysis
C2.   Marine Fisheries - Cost estimates, operating costs and financial and
economic analysis
C3.   Orchard Development - Cost estimates, and financial and economic
analysis
C4.   Land Reclamation - Cost estimates and financial and economic analysis
C5.   Agroindustry - Cost estimates, operating costs and financial and
economic analysis
(GAD15.PROJFILE)



_98 -                                         FIGURE1
<            \    ~~~~Reclamation in progfess    \     BIOG    1    aa 
Diam~~~~~~~ to\\Al\ he consIQucted                                    eo m- tione t} 
< /l - | Rest 937~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~how undeciglatsrldoAn | aewae
SA ZAWA - S2                                 DETIL OFMDOENZUAeRCAAIOtRJC
beackish water fishds/ ponds  



_ 99 _
FIGURE 2
CHINA
GUANGODONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DETAILS OF JIAOMEN (PANYLI) RECLAMATION PROJECT
SHOWING NEW ANC, IMPROVED AREAS
752 ha nat |         .
X                       t>>                                   NORTH JIBAOSHA
4r4                                       '" vAeQ  vf   fX,?/  /5 SOUTH JI8AOSHA
lj.
WANlNSHWE /   s/ ;   //// S
j  1465 ha n103ehtno
7  /                       --~~~~~~~~~~ ~Original dyke
/       1                   -- = -  lpnVroved dyke
Note:  's h*progre s onses------  Now dyke
SafetY building
7'   ~ ~~~~~  ~ canal
Now toot bridge
I/                         Z      ~~~~~~~~~Now Area
7/                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~lnfvroved Area
Note: Work In progre, a on sea dyke /'
foundatlon in this area                ,
sada/w48939a



, *s.                         E                   MARINE ,HERS
_    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~~~~~~~~~~rvngCLad  roup
Ministry of Fina~nce~
IProjectlVa ageent CYfice
Bureau of AquaUic Products (BAP)
Guangdngg Finance Bureau                                                                                              Projeci Ufioe (PO)
.-   -  -  -  -;- - -   -  -  -  -  - I
Shantou        Shanwe  Guangzhou                angmen    .   Zhha         .ng
Finance                           nncFn                                                                              iac
* Z r,>}   -   Rnane    . Finnce    ..Finance          Fmnanc            Finance        Fmnance           Fance  |        Fac
Bureau                                                                         Bureau Bureau BuBeaa
I  I              I                I               I~~~~~~~~~Ziua    I                1
Iit@3  <.:El.+^E^Sheantou    g @ Shanwei  *   Huizhou  * {Jianginen  Zhuhai Ocea    Yangpan  |        Maomin      I   Zhanpang
*    7  g y ..  BAP/PO |  i BAPIPO  |     BAP/PO           g   BAP/PO       :       BAP/PO    i   BAP/PO      ,   BAP/PO       '   BAP/PO            
ItHt0H;Lt0M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  Shrim
IC=                                                             Hcemal,,,, I                    , I I                  1 I
''">t1 ' 2>;;  |'  |Plzat/pmllt gl]cena   igl
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
nici           an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hapn
Aquatic               Aqu~~~~~Atic  dtr                                                   Pr Ofc
;             Fishing Conr  |     Contat       Aquatract ||Cnrc              || Contrash ct C | | runtra    A| ut Cona             F wuCngrf 
,=J|~~~~_                                                                               Fishemn1Fisemng !o                FServe   ihennn u   Co.shr
Q- -,z ~ ~~~~~~-.,
A  Plant/Pier     '    Plant            P0                                                   Plant Freeznglant
-p.,,  -  - .   ,   e;, _ -R *       .  ,=.                                                               .
.'   Fleet
Urban  Fish    -.    FihingCouny.azo
~~ -~-       ontrct          ontacti       SCtontrc          CotactCnrcqonrcotactutuC onrt Ofic
Fishermen        Rsemn,Lhre                       Fihrmeen   Plant       me                     Oceanmn   I Fishere     --hTe



_ 101 -
CHART 2
CHINA                                          Page  1 of 2
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Yr I     Yr 2     Yr 3      Yr 4     Yr 5      Yr 6
MARINE FISHERIES
Fishing Boats
Procurement                       xxxxxxxxx                 xxxx               xxxx
Delivery                                           xxxxxx             xxxxxx             xx
Start production                                   xxxxxx             xxxxxx            xx
Cold stores
Equipment procurement             xxxxxxxxx
Building construction                  xxxxxxxx
Stait production                                 xxxx
AQUACULTURE
Freshwater Fisheries - Zhaoqing and Shantou
Pond Development                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equipment          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Start production                            xxxxxxxxx
Shrimp Culture - Haifeng and Lufeng
Seadike improvement               xxxxxxxxx
Pond development                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equipment          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Start production                            xxxxxxxxx
Brackish Water Fisheries
Fenghuojia and Yanan
Seadike improvement               xxxxxxxxx
Pond deveLopment                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equipment          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Start production                            xxxxxxxxx
Modaomen
Seadike improvement               xxxxxxxxx
Pond deveLopment                   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxx(xXXXXXXXX
Procurement of equipment          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training                          xxxxxxxx     xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
Start production                  xxxxxxxxx
Leizhu
Seadike improvement               xxxxxxxxx
Pond devetopment                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Support facilities                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equipment          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Start production                            xxxxxxxxx
Qiao
Seadike improvement               xxxxxxxxx
Pond devetopment                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Support facilities                          xxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equipment          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Start production                            xxxxxxxxx
Xiazha
Seadike improvement               xxxxxxxxx
Pond development                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Support facilities                xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equipment          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxXXXXxx
Start production                            xxxxxxxxx



- 102 -
CHINA                                        CHART  2
Page 2 of 2
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVtinPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Yr 1     Yr 2     Yr 3      Yr 4     Yr 5      Yr 6
LAND RECLAiATION
Modaomen - Sanzaewan (improved)
Seadike improvement               xxxxxxxxx
Land Inprovement                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Start production                           xxxxxxxxx
Mocdaomen - BaiLonghe (now)
Scadike construction              xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Land reclamation                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Support faciLities                xxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equipment          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Start production                                     xxxxxxxxx
Jiaomen - improvement
Seadike construction              xxxxxxxxx
Land reclamation                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Start production                           xxxxxxxxx
Jiaomen - new
Seadike construction              xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Land reclamation                                     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Support facilities                                            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equipment          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
TraininS                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Start production                                     xxxxxxxxx
ORCHARD DEVELOFMENT
Orchard establishment             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Orchard improvement               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Procurement of inputs             xxxxxxxx'xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Start production
Improved                                          xxxxxxxxx
New                                                                  xxxxxxxxx
Procurement of equipment          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
AGROINDUSTRY
AIL plants
Equipment procurement             xxxxxxxxxxxxx
Building construction                  xxxxxxxx
Start production                                 xxxx
Expansion of Guangzhou
Fruit & Vegetable Plant
Equipment procurement                                     xxxx
Building construction                                     xxxx
Start production                                              xxxx



IBRD 22925
.s             lio                        }           ,;1102              '                  ;'0:'                                        
USSR                                                                     HUNAN                                                 'a
rj ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\RIRT  oxg                                                              JIPANG XI                               FUIA
MONGOLIA     .I iaoa                                                                            01,0  .\>  0010 EtJ N                             I                            FUJIAN
foIlIng       KOREA5V                                                   / DPR OF  6bLia gan  o   -i?saoaoan  SOa               li                  '
REP OF                                                             Yaagj an
KOREA A                                                                                                _ aIg  Hlplg           M., X-
K                                           M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.o.Pa
CHiNA                        04'                                                              Plgu '  ,091i0 °. -                               0P'.nyafn    S  lrIan    -  (                    04'
-/ \    -                             ., '/2uh'                                      f
GUANGXI                 -IOgMaR                                         C                                  . ° , 'sapag
! > ?' - M " D 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                               Hna                       JisX   o . pa.ng  
ET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
~~~~~~~~~~LA                                                                8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAAa
Rr                                                                                         ha"              g a       ng
V      ¾~~~~GUAN*4}IO                BaeouIg                                         opa
,)   >   2>  7xinyi   // z   )O  \t  Xt  \       J    X        HONG KONG,
22  t ( Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dqago  E                                         ninFaEhA1 1 4tf~              0j                                 AiI    3 
\ -^ 3 PORT.
gii                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H INA
rap.,,,             YAaIu. 7 alsaGUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL
>'*t\ j.4v &t%%Jt  SS \J\\\1                                                             ~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'  ,   t3\t@\&                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTH CHINA SEA FISHING AREA
uwgn
ROAD           S (             w                                                 RESERVED FOR BABY FISH AND SHRIMP          20
20 ~ ~      ~        ~        ~       ~        I- . -Hlo                                                 --RKOD
,,~ ~ ~~~~~~Hlo                                                                              r+AtLRPOADS                   \\\\PROTECTION AREAS FOR JUVENILE YELLOW CROAKER
v P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORT$                                                            ..     PROTECTION AREAS FOR SCADS AND SARDINE JUVENILES
LAKES AND RIVERS       ;t jRESERVE FOR JUVENILE YELLOW CROAKER
o    TOWNS
aa    PROVINCE CAPITAL                RESERVES AND BREEDING GROUNDS FOR ECONOMIC FISH
COUNTY BOUNDARIES      ||||||  RESERVE FOR BIVALVES
-PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES    r       FISH RESOURCES RESERVE
HA INAN                                                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIESCLSDFSIGTMORZEBrrMTAWR
NATIONAL CAPITALS
SOUETHLCNHARE                 ISOBATHS IN METERS E WATER DEPTH)
ROANDSAREEREIORBBEFSSNDSRM
,                          o        50       10D                                   RAILA0 200
.                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                                                         md
4     AIRPORTS                        PROTECTION AREASFORJUNILEYELLOWCROAKJUNE 199



I8RD 2
u. S S.0 R
A,N5OUA           f2V                                                                                                    h-. H
'N 25   %  +  ' 1 )    t ., 2                                          a                             FUJIAN
,OEA PEo LE S                                             L.-J7
/   REP O KORiA
BR~~EEPLO ~ ,' JAPAN
REP Al
Ch~~~~~~~~~'EA 'A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~         
\~~~~~U"Al g          -H      uo                                                                                                                                              t     tROO                       Aoot
WRAFRRRfl                                                                                                                                                                         M v Whountaipous Arec
-r   '*+                                                                                                                                                                    Agro IndAREPY               O eer 2.000.000
20'{h nilo n b                                                                                                                            SUROr Cone           e      | 000000A2.00 0 0,
I' )                                                                                                                                                                          RootoiROd ArReRE       0     IReR hon 500,000
Hcikorp                                                                                                                                              _-  Crefecture Boundor,es~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERROEIfOI8onoi
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A0                                                                                                             000          120 KELOMETERS
{bXIIwer                                                                                                                                   v#w~         ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EIXIAN 
IL10  Hllo             A'2° C'-                                                        4                            IS                             Is GJUNE H CJ



