Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19470
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AND
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(PORTION OF CREDIT 2307-CHA)
June 28, 1999
Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.0 =100 fen
$1.0=Y8.3
Appraisal: $1.0 = Y 8.3; SDR 1.0 = $1.44
Completion: $1.0 = Y 8.3; SDR 1.0 = $1.33
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA    -  Development Credit Agreement
EASUR  -  Urban Sector Development Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region
GOC    -  Government of China
ICR     -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA     -  International Development Association
IMAR   -  Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
NSP      -  National Shopping Procedures
RS      -  Richter Scale
TA&T   -  Technical Assistance and Training
YP      -  Yunnan Province
YPG     -  Yunnan Provincial Government
Vice President   : Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director : Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager  : Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Manager   : Geoffrey Read, EASUR



CONTENTS *
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PREFACE ........................................................                                           III
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................V
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ........................................................      1l
B. Achievement of Program  Objectives .........................................................6
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................6
D. Program  Sustainability .........................................................7
E. IDA  Performance .........................................................8
F. Borrower Performance .........................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ........................................................                 10
H. Future Operations ........................................................                     10
I. Key Lessons Learned .........................................................1.1
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES-INNER MONGOLIA
AUTONOMOUS REGION ........................................................                                  13
Table IMAR  1: Summary of Assessments ....................................................... 13
Table IMAR  2: Related Bank Loans and IDA  Credits .................................... 14
Table IMAR  3: Program  Timetable ........................................................         14
Table IMAR  4: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ........ 14
Table IMAR  5: Key Indicators for Program  Implementation .......................... 15
Table IMAR  6: Key Indicators For Program  Operations ................................ 15
Table IMAR  7: Studies included in Program .................................................. 15
Table IMAR  8a-1: Program  Cost Estimate ...................................................... 16
Table IMAR  8a-2: Total Program  Cost Estimate and Actual .......................... 17
Table IMAR  8b: Program  Financing ........................................................        18
Table IMAR  9: Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................. 18
Table IMAR  10: Status of Legal Covenants .................................................... 19
* Reference should also be made to the primary ICR for Credit 2307-CHA-Guangdong
Agricultural Development Project (GADP) and Earthquake Reconstruction Program
(Report No. 19492); that report refers to the use of funds allocated to Guangdong
Province. This ICR  is prepared  in connection with the investments undertaken with  a
portion of the funds in Credit 2307, which arose following the reallocation of credit
proceeds from the GADP to the Inner Mongolia and Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction
Program, supported by the International Development Association as an emergency
operation, using the latter procedures.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table IMAR  11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............... 19
Table IMAR  12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................. 20
Table IMAR  13: IDA Resources: Missions .................................................... 20
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES-YUNNAN PROVINCE' ........................... 21
Table YP 1: Summary of Assessments ........................................................... 21
Table YP 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits ......................................... 22
Table YP 3: Program  Timetable ..............................       ............................. 22
Table YP 4: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .............. 22
Table YP 5: Key Indicators for Program  Implementation ............................... 23
Table YP 6: Key Indicators For Program  Operations ...................................... 23
Table YP 7: Studies included in Program ........................................................ 24
Table YP 8a-1: Program  Cost Estimate ........................................................... 24
Table YP 8a-2: Total Program  Cost Estimate and Actual ............................... 25
Table YP 8b: Program  Financing ...........................................................   25
Table YP 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................... 26
Table YP 10: Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................... 26
Table YP 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .................... 26
Table YP 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................... 27
Table YP 13: IDA Resources: Missions .......................................................... 27
APPENDIX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE-INNER MONGOLIA....29
APPENDIX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE-YUNNAN ....................... 36
APPENDIX C: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR-INNER
MONGOLIA ..........................................................                      61
APPENDIX D: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR-YUNNAN ... 73
APPENDIX E: CULTURAL HERITAGE ASSET RECONSTRUCTION
COMPONENT-IMPLEMENTATION MISSION REVIEW AND
FINDINGS ..........................................................                      85
MAPS
IBRD 30368-Inner Mongolia and Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction Program
IBRD 30369-Inner Mongolia
IBRD 30193-Yunnan Province
Two sets of Statistical Annexes were prepared, since the two programs were managed by different Provincial
Governments, the timing of the two earthquake events were also different, and specific funds were allocated
within the Credit to each Provincial Government.



- 1ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT *
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AND EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(PORTION OF CREDIT 2307-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Earthquake
Reconstruction Program portion of the Guangdong Agricultural Development Project and
Earthquake Reconstruction Program in China for which SDR 41.61 million equivalent of
the proceeds of Credit 2307-CHA was approved and made effective on October 16, 1996.
In March 1998 a further reallocation of SDR 9.0228 million equivalent of the proceeds of
Credit 2307-CHA was approved. The total allocation for the Earthquake Reconstruction
Program (implemented in Inner Mongolia and Yunnan) was thus SDR 50.6328 million.
Bank Group procedures for Emergency Recovery Assistance (OP 8.50) were followed.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1998, at which time the funds allocated to
the Earthquake Reconstruction Program were fully committed. The final disbursement
took place on December 30, 1998 for Yunnan Province, and on April 12, 1999 for Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region.
Messrs. Geoffrey Read (Task Manager) and Terry Hall (Consultant) prepared the
ICR, with assistance by Yang Dawei (Procurement Specialist), Chen Feng (Disbursement
Specialist), in the Urban Development Sector Unit (EASUR) of the East Asia and Pacific
Region, and Ken Rippin (Consultant). It was reviewed by Messrs. Keshav Varma, Sector
Manager, EASUR, and Yukon Huang, Country Director, China.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the International Development
Association's (IDA's) supervision missions in June 1998 (in the Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region) and in November 1998 (in Yunnan Province), and is based on
information in the project file and mission reports prepared during supervision. Since this
program was rapidly implemented separately but simultaneously to the Guangdong
Agricultural Development Project (GADP), progress reporting was undertaken through
* Reference should also be made to the primary ICR for Credit 2307-CHA-Guangdong
Agricultural Development Project (GADP) and Earthquake Reconstruction Program
(Report No. 19492); that report refers to the use of funds allocated to Guangdong
Province. This ICR is prepared in connection with the investments undertaken with a
portion of the funds in Credit 2307, which arose following the reallocation of credit
proceeds from the GADP to the Inner Mongolia and Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction
Program, supported by the International Development Association as an emergency
operation, using the latter procedures.






CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AND EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(PORTION OF CREDIT 2307-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This reconstruction program addressed the restoration of infrastructure, industrial
and cultural heritage facilities in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (IMAR) and
Yunnan Province (YP) that were damaged or destroyed due to seismic activities in 1996.
2.   In IMAR, on May 3, 1996, an earthquake measuring 6.4 on the Richter Scale (RS)
struck near the densely populated industrial city of Baotou in Baotou Municipality. Seven
counties in the nearby Yi and Ba Prefectures (populations of 1.3 million and 1.6 million,
respectively) were also affected. There were 26 fatalities and some 450 people were
injured, and the earthquake caused serious damage to buildings, industrial facilities, and
urban and rural housing. Some 135,000 housing units were damaged or destroyed.
Altogether, 580,000 households comprising some 2.1 million people were affected. There
was urgent need to rehouse people before the onset of the winter of 1996 since in Inner
Mongolia, the winter effectively begins in October and the temperature drops to
-45°Celsius.
3.   In YP, an earthquake registering 7.0 RS struck in Dali, Diqing and Lijiang
Prefectures, north of Kunming (the provincial capital) on February 3, 1996. Casualties
were heavy, with 309 fatalities and about 4,000 persons injured. Severe property damage
occurred involving some 410,000 housing units and affecting about I million people.
Schools, hospitals and community facilities were also destroyed, together with local
enterprises, infrastructure and cultural heritage facilities in Lijiang Old City.' There were
more than 2,000 aftershocks in the range of 4 to 6 RS, which contributed to the
substantial damage. The most affected areas were Lijiang Prefecture and County, Heqing
and Jianchuan Counties in Dali Prefecture, and Zhongdian County in Diqing Prefecture.
Mostly the Naxi minority occupies the affected areas. Employment is mostly in
agriculture, and in agricultural- and mining-related small industries.
4.    The Government estimated direct losses at about $627 million equivalent in
IMAR and $482 million equivalent in YP. The Government of China (GOC) requested
1  Lijiang Old City has been designated by UNESCO as a World Heritage site.



- vi -
support for Yunnan immediately after the earthquake struck Yunnan and, subsequently,
shortly after the earthquake struck Inner Mongolia.
Program Objectives
5.    The primary objective of the program was to assist in the restoration of economic
and social activities in the earthquake-affected areas of IMAR and YP through the
restoration of infrastructure and priority production facilities. A secondary objective was
to restore cultural heritage assets, particularly in minority areas, thereby assisting to
restore living conditions and facilities to conditions comparable before the earthquakes
struck. The objectives were clear and realistic, focusing on the immediate needs to restore
economic capacity and those facilities essential to the damaged and shocked
communities, namely housing, health and education, essential infrastructure services and
means of production. These were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy.
6.    The objectives were straightforward, and involved no unreasonable risks, as the
skills, services and materials needed to respond and implement the program were locally
available; the objectives met the agency needs since immediate short-term relief was
provided by national and international authorities, but resources were limited for the
provision of longer-term assistance requiring investmnent. The above are confirmed by the
successful program  outcomes. Program  components included restoration of the
following: housing (through reconstruction of complex structures or loans to supplement
householder reconstruction efforts), schools and education facilities, clinics and hospitals,
water/drainage/wastewater services, district heating (IMAR only), power, select road
reconstruction, restoration of priority production facilities (employment restoration), and
limited training and technical assistance.
7.    The program included no special covenants. There was a requirement that an
Environmental Assessment be prepared for investments to restore pulp and paper
facilities in Yunnan, as these could be polluting; the requirement was satisfactorily met.
Implementation Experience and Results
8.    The achievements of the reconstruction programs in IMAR and YP were
substantial. The rehabilitation components were carefully prepared by GOC experts from
the Ministry of Construction (MOC), adopting standardized procedures for classifying
earthquake damage and repairs, in accordance with the 1978 antiseismic Building Design
Code for Industrial and Public Buildings and Infrastructure Facilities. Implementation
was expedited through properly structured management by government at all levels;
simplified procurement procedures; ready availability of local funds; and "fast track" IDA
processing. The restoration through the program of urban services, housing and public
buildings in the Old City of Lijiang in Yunnan, which is a major heritage asset with a
fragile environment, was a major achievement by the Government and the community.
9.    Sustainability of the reconstructed buildings and facilities is considered highly
likely since the programs were designed and implemented to restore the facilities to their



- vii -
original pre-earthquake situation, in line with budgets already existing for operation and
maintenance. In many cases, the authorities and benefiting communities also took the
opportunity to improve the designs and layout of rehabilitated facilities while maintaining
compliance with Bank Group guidelines for emergency operations. Construction quality
was reported to be consistently highly satisfactory, and the reconstruction was done in
accordance with the above-mentioned design code.
10.   Program Costs and Financing. The total program cost estimate for IMAR and
YP was Y 788.7 million ($95.0 million), including contingencies, and engineering and
management costs. A fixed exchange rate of Y 8.3 = $1.0 was adopted since a 24-month
implementation period was planned. The actual total cost was $107.1 million, with
expenditures almost wholly (99.5 percent) in local currency. IDA financing totaled
SDR 50.6328 million ($67.34 million equivalent at closing date) under Credit 2307-
CHA. This is SDR 9.028 million ($12.0 million equivalent) more than at appraisal in
1996, since supplementary fund allocations were provided in March 1998 to both Inner
Mongolia and Yunnan to enable additional urgent reconstruction to be completed.
Second-level priority investments were identified during appraisal and negotiations that
could not be financed at the time due to resource limitations but would be suitable for
IDA support; these were financed once the supplementary funds became available. The
credit closed on December 31, 1998.
Major Factors Affecting Program Implementation
11.   The program was completed very successfully and within the time expected.
* Factors Outside Government Control
Procurement Arrangements. Simplified procurement procedures were adopted
by GOC and IDA for the reconstruction program: Civil works and goods were
mainly procured through lump-sum fixed-price contracts based on National
Shopping Procedures (NSP) and output-based force account contracts (to a limited
extent). In IMAR, advertised competitive bidding was preferred for some
components to achieve lower costs (savings up to 10 percent were reported).
Advance contracting up to $15 million (about 20 percent of the program) was
permitted starting from the dates of the earthquake occurrences. IDA supervision
missions reported generally satisfactory compliance with procurement procedures
based on selective post-review of documentation, although it seems in a few cases
in YP, in order to achieve high-quality work, contract awards were based on a
judgmental marking system of bidders with prices nearest to the "Engineer's
Estimate," not necessarily the lowest responding bidder (ICR mission discussions
with executing agencies). Overall, the adoption of the simplified procedures was
entirely appropriate and had a very positive impact on the effectiveness of the
program implementation; the program could almost certainly not have been
implemented successfully using normal Bank Group procurement procedures.



- viii -
Response  by  Communities  and  Outside  Donors/Contributors.  The
communities responded to the crises very positively, as did outside relief givers.
This enabled immediate relief to be effective, and created a synergistic effect on
the investment program, increasing the scope and impact of the restoration
investments.
* Factors Within Government Control
* Funds Availability. In both IMAR and YP (after minor delays) local funds were
made readily available by the respective Finance Bureaus, which contributed to
the good all-round implementation experience. Both IMAR and YP were able to
absorb additional IDA funds to rehabilitate damaged facilities not covered in the
original appraisal, although in both IMAR and YP minor problems occurred with
counterpart funding at the closing stages of the programs. These problems were
due to insufficient contingency provisions in construction budgets and inadequate
arrangements by executing agencies to accommodate exchange rate variations
(SDR going down against the US dollar and the Yuan). Apart from some minor
works, all components were successfully implemented within the original credit
closing date (December 31, 1998).
* Rapid Response by State and Local Authorities. The ability of the state
authorities, in particular China's Ministry of Finance, and of the Yunnan
Provincial authorities to respond rapidly to an emergency was impressive and
crucial to the effective provision of immediate-term and longer-term relief.
Decisive responsiveness at the center enabled resources to be mobilized and
utilized effectively.
* Factors Within Implementing Agency Control
* Program Management Arrangements. In both IMAR and YP, appropriate high-
level program management arrangements were set up at the start of the program.
In IMAR, a Leading Group was established, headed by a vice-governor, together
with about 39 project management offices for execution. In YP, Leading Groups
were set up at Provincial, Prefecture and County levels under the leadership of
vice-governors; and about 40 project offices were set up at the implementing
agency level. Key participation by the respective Provincial Finance Bureaus and
Construction Commission (in YP) is noted.
*  Procurement and Reporting. Both IMAR and Yunnan made specific efforts to
follow the agreed procurement and project reporting procedures. This enabled
rapid implementation.
* Community and Minority Group Consultation and Participation. The local
authorities, with the support of the central authorities, made strong efforts to
facilitate the efforts of the local communities/beneficiaries at all stages. The
program could not have been undertaken so effectively without this deep



- ix -
involvement. The restoration of livelihoods and facilities for minority groups was
given particular attention in Yunnan.
12.  IDA Performance. IDA performance in identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision of both programs was fully satisfactory, and initial responses to GOC
requests for assistance were very prompt. Appraisal of both programs was satisfactory,
although the study on a "Cultural Asset Construction Guide" could have been better
defined at appraisal. Internal processing was prompt, although on a number of occasions
the IMAR program office expressed concern at the length of time required to replenish
the Special Account.
13.   Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance at all levels in preparation
and implementation was highly satisfactory. The project management arrangements at
both IMAR and YP incorporated the experiences gained in the earlier disaster-relief IDA-
assisted projects. Strong central and local leadership, and local management,
minimization of "cash flow" delays, community participation and IDA's "fast track"
processing (as permitted under OP 8.50) all contributed to the successful and timely
implementation of the reconstruction programs. The Borrower complied with the
applicable covenants under the legal agreements. This performance was especially
satisfactory as both local governments were first-time participants with Bank Group
procedures, and were responding to emergency situations with associated complications.
14.   Program  Outcome. The outcome of the reconstruction program was highly
satisfactory. Both IMAR and YP completed the works to high quality and addressed the
program objectives satisfactorily. The effectiveness and robustness of IDA's "fast track"
procedures for disaster relief were clearly demonstrated.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
15.   Future Operations. The implementation of the relief programs in both IMAR
and YP could provide a good model for future similar operations. The Yunnan Provincial
Government (YPG) has proposed requesting further Bank Group support to assist in
developing strategies and programs in the minority prefectures of Dali, Diqing and
Lijiang, based on the successful experience of the earthquake rehabilitation programn.
16.   Key Lessons Learned from the implementation of this program include:
*  Dedicated and sustained project management through high-level Leading Groups at
the Provincial, Prefecture and County levels, supported by properly staffed, full-time
project management offices at all levels made a major contribution to project success;
*  The in-depth involvement and in many cases financial commitment by the local
communities at all stages of reconstruction was a major factor in success and
sustainability of disaster-relief efforts;



Simplified procurement procedures clearly had a major impact on the speed and
effectiveness of implementation. Post-review of procurement documentation by
visiting IDA missions indicated generally satisfactory compliance, although it seems
that in a few cases in YP the lowest responding bid was not always accepted. The
adoption of similar procedures could be considered for more widespread use in
regular lending operations, in appropriate cases, subject to rigorous monitoring for
compliance;
.  Appropriate financial and implementation tracking systems as part of project
management should be put in place at the start of the project to avoid delays in
implementation and sanctioning of expenditures;
*  In emergency projects, construction often begins before all design details are
finalized. In such cases it is important to allow generous contingency provisions to
address unforeseen problems that may occur during construction;
*  The methods successfully adopted for the reconstruction of urban services in an
important and fragile heritage environment clearly demonstrated community
commitment and increased the likelihood of sustainability;
*  An unusual feature of the program in Yunnan was that much reconstruction had to be
undertaken in sites of unique cultural heritage value. This was done successfully,
within the program time scale, restoring the assets to community use (schools,
hospitals, urban fabric and public buildings);
*  Substantial economic, environmental, financial and social indirect benefits can accrue
to the disaster-affected areas through carefully designed rehabilitation and repair
programs; and
*  Rapid and effective focused decisions by Bank Group and client country management
can make a significant positive impact in improving the lives of lower-income
communities, especially in emergency situations; the participation by the affected
community and their leaders however is central to this success.



- 1 -
CHINA
GUANGDONG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AND EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(PORTION OF CREDIT 2307-CHA)
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Background. China has experienced some of the most severe recorded
earthquakes in the world. Since 1900, there have been 662 earthquakes with a magnitude
of over 6 on the Richter Scale (RS), of which 106 registered a magnitude of 7 or more,
representing around 30 percent of world earthquakes of that severity. Some five years ago
Chinese earthquake specialists predicted that, after a decade of relative calm, China has
entered a period of high seismic activity. This prediction is certainly borne out by the
earthquake events that occurred in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (IMAR) and
Yunnan Province (YP) in 1996, and which are addressed in this Program, by the recent
seismic activity (November 1998) in the northern area of YP, and an earthquake in Hebei
in January 1999, where the International Development Association (IDA) is supporting
reconstruction in a very low-income area.
2.    This reconstruction program addressed the restoration of infrastructure, essential
social services and facilities, industrial and cultural heritage facilities in IMAR and YP
that were damaged or destroyed resulting from seismic activities in 1996.
3.   In IMAR, on May 3, 1996, an earthquake measuring 6.4 RS struck near the
densely populated (over 2 million) iron and steel-making industrial city of Baotou in
Baotou Municipality. Seven counties in the nearby Yi and Ba Prefectures (populations of
1.3 million and 1.6 million, respectively) were also affected. The epicenter of this
earthquake was about 10 kilometers (km) north of Baotou City. There were 26 fatalities;
some 450 people were injured. The earthquake caused serious damage to buildings,
industrial facilities, and urban and rural housing; some 135,000 housing units were either
damaged or destroyed. Altogether, 580,000 households, comprising some 2.1 million
people, were affected. There was urgent need to rehouse people before the onset of the
winter of 1996 since in Inner Mongolia winter starts in October and the temperatures drop
to -45°Celsius. The affected rural areas support a population comprising mostly
minorities who practice low-input agriculture and animal husbandry activities.
4.   In YP, an earthquake registering 7.0 RS struck in Dali, Diqing and Lijiang
Prefectures, north of Kunming (the provincial capital), on February 3, 1996. The
epicenter of this earthquake was some 60 km north of Lijiang. Casualties were heavy



- 2 -
with 309 fatalities and about 4,000 persons injured. Severe property damage occurred
involving some 410,000 housing units and affecting about 1 million people. Schools,
hospitals and community facilities were also destroyed, together with local enterprises,
infrastructure facilities (bridges, power, water and telecommunications) and cultural
heritage facilities in Lijiang Old City. There were more than 2,000 aftershocks in the
range of 4 to 6 RS, which contributed to the substantial damage. The most affected areas
were Lijiang Prefecture and County, Heqing and Jianchuan Counties in Dali Prefecture,
and Zhongdian County in Diqing Prefecture. The affected areas are poor rural areas some
2,200 meters (m) above sea level, bordering on Myanmar in the west, and occupied
mostly by the Naxi minority. Employment is mostly in agriculture, and in agricultural-
and mining-related small industries, including papermaking, timber and food processing.
The area has a mostly mountain-region climate with cold winters and prolonged snowfall.
5.    The Government estimated direct losses at about $627 million equivalent and
$482 million equivalent in IMAR and YP, respectively. Assets were mostly uninsured
and both provinces received local and international support for immediate relief
expenditures such as temporary housing and emergency medical facilities. The
Government of China (GOC) requested IDA assistance on February 4, 1996.
6.    While not major disasters by Chinese or world standards, both the IMAR and YP
earthquakes significantly affected the local economies. IDA involvement in the
reconstruction programs, following requests by GOC for emergency assistance, focused
on: (a) the restoration of economic and social activities through the rebuilding of schools,
health centers, infrastructure, housing, cultural heritage and selected enterprise facilities;
(b) the use of cost-effective earthquake-resilient construction standards for housing,
industry and infrastructure; and (c) modest institutional development in emergency
program management and implementation.
7.    Program Objectives. The primary objective of the program was to assist in the
restoration of economic and social activities in the earthquake-affected areas of IMAR
and YP through the restoration of economic and social infrastructure and priority
production facilities. A secondary objective was to restore cultural heritage assets,
particularly in Naxi minority areas.
8.    Program Description and Components. The program was designed to support
emergency reconstruction, repair and rehabilitation activities to be carried out in IMAR
and YP during the period mid-1996 through mid-1998. The program components, as
identified in 1996, indicated costs including physical and price contingencies, and
engineering and management charges were defined as follows (from the Operations
Implementation Plans). Supplementary rehabilitation components, which were identified
in both IMAR and YP in 1997/98, are also defined below:



- 3 -
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
*  Health  Care-Y 80.9  million  ($9.7  million). Investments to  support the
reconstruction, repair and rehabilitation of about nine hospitals and healthcare
institutions and other facilities in Baotou City and in Yi and Ba Prefectures, to restore
the existing inpatient, outpatient, and clinic facilities, totaling about 49,200 square
meters (m2).
*  Education-Y 88.8  million  ($10.7  million). Investments  to  support the
reconstruction, repair and rehabilitation of about 11 elementary and middle schools in
Baotou City and in Yi and Ba Prefectures, and the rehabilitation, repair and
reinforcement of teaching, library, laboratory, dormitory and other facilities, totaling
about 76,610 in2.
* Village and Urban Rehabilitation-Y 65.2 million ($7.9 million). Rehabilitation
and reconstruction of about 83,500 housing units in about 351 villages in Yi and Ba
Prefectures, and in Baotou City.
-  Power and Gas Sectors-Y 93.7 million ($11.3 million).
*  Power: Construction of a reinforced concrete structure to "wrap" two existing
switchgear buildings; restoration of power transmission and distribution systems
in Yi and Ba Prefectures, and restoration of power supply in Baotou City; and
* Gas: construction of a gas tank of about 54,000 cubic meters (m3) capacity;
repairs to an existing gas tank damaged in the earthquake; and repairs to the gas
network of Baotou City.
*  Institutional Development-Y 0.8 million ($0.1 million). Investments to provide
technical assistance, training and support to provincial-, municipal-, prefectural- and
county-level agencies.
* Supplementary Rehabilitation Components-Y 61.8 million ($7.5 million).
Investments to support the reconstruction, repair and rehabilitation of additional
facilities in schools, housing, infrastructure and heating plant in Bautou City, Ba and
Yi Prefectures totaling around 51,700 rn2 of building area.
Yunnan Province
* Education-Y 86.0 million ($10.4 million). Investments to support the
reconstruction, repair and rehabilitation of about 10 primary and secondary schools in
urban centers, in Lijiang, Heqing, Jianchuan and Zhongdian Counties, including
Lijiang Health Care School, and about 35 primary and middle schools in county areas
in Lijiang, Heqing, Jianchuan and Zhongdian Counties, including the rehabilitation,
repair and reinforcement of about 110,000 M2 of teaching, library, laboratory and
dormitory facilities.



-4-
* Health Centers-V 42.1 million ($5.1 million). Investments to support the
reconstruction, repair and reinforcement of about six county- and city-level hospitals
in Lijiang, Dali and Diqing Prefectures, to restore the existing inpatient, outpatient,
and clinic facilities, totaling about 25,000 M2.
* Cultural Heritage-Y 65.9 million ($7.9 million). Investments to support urban
fabric renewal and infrastructure in:
* Lijiang Old City, including restoration of the Mu Minority Cultural Center
totaling about 20,000 m2 area and public buildings of some 2,100 ni2 area, and
provision of construction materials in support of property reconstruction of about
2,400 family rooms for lower- and middle-income groups, thus benefiting about
15,300 families (see also Appendix E).
* Jianchuan Hong Dynasty Museum Park and Dongba Cultural Art Museum.
Investments to support the restoration and repair of damages to this national-level
Museum Park and Dongba Cultural Art Museum, including repairs to pavilions
and exhibits (see also Appendix E).
* Infrastructure-Y 109.3 million ($13.2 million). Investments in water supply and
treatment, irrigation and drainage and roads in Lijiang City, Diqing, Heqing and
Jianchuan Counties of Dali, Diqing and Lijiang Prefectures including:
*  Lijiang City Water Supply. Repair and replacement of water distribution mains
in range 25 to 150 millimeters (mm) diameter, in pipes of galvanized mild steel,
cast iron or other materials to replace defective and broken pipes, of a total length
of about 150 km. Repair and rehabilitation of water treatment works of about
20,000 cubic meters per day (m3/d) capacity, and raw water headworks and
transmission culvert/pipeline totaling about 11.6 km.
*  City Sanitation and Drainage. Reconstruction of drainage channels and culverts
of about 3.0 km length, repair and reconstruction of about 100 community toilets
and outlet sewers.
*  Heqing County. Rehabilitation of existing water treatment and distribution
system of about 6,000 m3/d capacity, including repair/replacement of broken
water mains in sizes in the range 150 to 500 mm diameter, of about 10 km total
length.
*  Jianchuan County. Rehabilitation, repair and replacement of (a) distribution
system of pipes in sizes in the range 100 to 300 mm diameter of about 9 km total
length; and (b) raw water pipeline of about 5 km total length.
.  Zhongdian Water Supply. Rehabilitation, repair and replacement of water
supply system comprising water treatment facilities of about 6,000 m3/d capacity,
replacement of leaking and defective concrete transmission and distribution pipes



-5 -
with cast iron, galvanized or other materials in sizes in the range 100 to 500 mm
diameter of about 25 km total length.
Jianchuan Irrigation System Conveyor. Rehabilitation, repair and replacement
of irrigation water conveyor system comprising elevated and ground-level
channels, of about 7 km total length to serve an area of about 2,000 hectares.
.  Lijiang Spine Road Drainage System. Repairs to roadside drainage systems
comprising pipes in the range of 600 to 800 mm diameter of about 1,200 m total
length, and drain channel retaining walls.
* Lijiang Airport-Heqing Road Rehabilitation. Repairs to about 25 km of road
surface and drain channel retaining walls.
* Industrial Enterprises-Y 97.3 million ($11.6 million). Investments to support the
rehabilitation, repair and replacement of buildings and equipment in about eight
selected industrial enterprises in Lijiang, Dali and Diqing Prefectures, including
Diqing Pulp Works, Heqing Manganese Mine, Heqing Agriculture Machinery
Factory, Heqing County Paper Mills, Lijiang Food Processing Factory, Lijiang
Machine Tool Factory, Lijiang Window Frame factory, and Lijiang County Paper
Mill, to restore their original pre-earthquake capacity.
* Power Sector-Y 57.0 million ($6.9 million). Investments to support the
rehabilitation and repair of about three hydropower stations including Xizhong, Hei
Bai Shui and Zhongdian stations, to restore their original pre-earthquake capacity.
- Institutional Development-Y 1.7 million ($0.2 million). Investments to provide
technical assistance, data management facilities, training and support to provincial,
prefecture and county-level agencies.
* Supplementary Rehabilitation Components-Y 83.1 million ($10.0 million).
Investments in Dali, Diqing and Lijiang Prefectures to support the reconstruction,
repair and rehabilitation of about 13,700 rn2 area in 12 schools, 3,600 rn2 area and
equipment in five hospitals, provision of construction materials in Zhongdian City,
repair of the Confucius temple school in Heqing, Lijiang drainage and waste
treatment, additional repairs at the Lijiang airport road, repairs in four enterprises, and
power station building repairs of 3,000 rn2 area.
9.    The total program cost estimate for IMAR and YP was Y 788.7 million ($95.0
million), including contingencies, and engineering and management costs. The foreign
exchange component was estimated at about Y 101.3 million ($12.2 million) or about 13
percent of program costs. A fixed exchange rate of Y 8.3 = $1.0 was adopted since the
implementation period was planned for about 24 months. However, although the US
dollar vs. Yuan exchange rate has remained around 1.0 to 8.3 throughout the project
period, the SDR vs. US dollar exchange rate has varied from SDR 1.0 = $1.44 at
appraisal (1996) to SDR 1.0 = $1.33 in late 1998 (7.6 percent devaluation of SDR).



- 6 -
Expenditures were almost wholly in Yuan, and as a result, reimbursements from the
credit in Yuan are reduced. Overall in YP the impact of the SDR devaluation is around 3
percent of total cost of the Yunnan program. Program engineering and management costs
of 12 percent (except for Institutional Development) were included in the estimates.
Interest during construction was estimated at Y 14.9 million ($1.8 million), with a total
resulting financing requirement of Y 803.6 million ($96.8 million). Details of the
estimated and actual expenditures for both IMAR and YP are given in Part II.
10.   Evaluation of Objectives. This was an emergency program to address disaster
relief. The objectives as defined above were entirely appropriate and realistic. These
objectives were consistent with the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for China,
which focused on poverty alleviation and the reconstruction of essential infrastructure
and social sector support (in the case of YP).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
11.   Restoration of Economic and Social Activities in Earthquake-Affected Areas
of IMAR and YP. This objective was completely achieved through the restoration of the
earthquake-affected facilities and infrastructure. Program implementation indicators are
compared in Tables IMAR and YP 5 in Part II of this report indicating that, in many
instances, the actual restoration well exceeded the expectations at appraisal. In many
cases in YP, while undertaking the rehabilitation and repairs within the IDA emergency
guidelines, the government, benefiting communities and enterprises took advantage of
improved designs, modem equipment and layouts. This has achieved indirect benefits
such as enhanced education successes, better medical facilities, improved tourism and
commercial benefits. Additional local and foreign investment has also accrued in the
earthquake-affected areas (hotels, commercial, banking and industrial enterprises).
12.   Restoration of Cultural Heritage Assets in Minority Areas. This objective was
also achieved satisfactorily. See Table YP 5 for details. The involvement of the minority
community at all stages of implementation was essential to ensure success.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
13.   Procurement. This was done in accordance with simplified procedures. The
Government could not control the outcome of the bidding process. In any event, however,
it appeared that bidders were responsive and a market-based pricing approach worked
fully satisfactorily.
14.   Community and Donor Relief Response. The communities' capacity to respond
in crises proved to be much larger than expected. This enabled the expansion of the
project impact in a highly cost-effective manner. Donors (bilaterals, nongovernmental
organizations, and private gift or grant givers to support the reconstruction) also made



-7 -
significant resources available for initial relief, which was instrumental in effective.
implementation, as people's lives had been helped at this early stage of reconstruction.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
15.   Funds Availability. This is an important issue, particularly when dealing with
emergency reconstruction against tight time schedules. In both IMAR and YP (after
initial delays) local funds were made readily available by the respective Finance Bureaus.
This contributed to the good all-round implementation experience. It is also noted that
both IMAR and YP were able to absorb additional IDA funds to rehabilitate damaged
facilities that were not covered in the original appraisal, although in YP (and to a lesser
extent in IMAR) minor problems occurred at the end of the project due to a shortage of
counterpart funds. This arose due to inadequate arrangements by executing agencies to
accommodate exchange rate risks (SDR vs. Yuan).
16.   Procurement Arrangements. The following simplified procurement procedures
were adopted by GOC and IDA. Civil works were carried out mainly through: (a) lump-
sum fixed-price contracts based on National Shopping Procedures (NSP) with at least
three relevant quotations; and (b) output-based force account contracts (only used for
about 4 percent of the work). Goods were also procured mainly through NSP with at least
three relevant quotations. In IMAR, although NSP was permitted, the agencies preferred
to adopt advertised competitive bidding for two hospitals and a 50,000 m3 gas tank to
achieve lower-cost bids (cost savings up to 10 percent were reported after awards to the
lowest responding bidders). Advance contracting up to $15 million equivalent (about 20
percent of the program) was permitted starting from the dates of the earthquakes in IMAR
and YP. Contracts above $1.0 million for civil works, $0.2 million for goods, and
subloans for paper mill reconstruction greater than $1.0 million were subject to prior
review by IDA. In any event, two civil works, two goods and no subloan documents were
subject to prior review by IDA (representing about 4 percent of total program cost).
Factors Within Implementing Agency Control
17.   Program Management Arrangements. In both IMAR and YP, appropriate
program management arrangements were set up at the start of the programs. In IMAR, a
provincial-level and five sector-level Leading Groups were established with the
provincial-level Leading Group headed by a vice-governor, together with about 30
project management offices for execution of subcomponents. In YP, Leading Groups
were set up at the provincial, prefecture and county levels under leadership of vice-
governors. Project offices were also established at provincial, prefecture and county level
and about 40 subproject offices were set up at the implementation agency level. Key
participation by the respective Provincial Finance Bureaus and Construction Commission
(in YP) is noted. This allowed for efficient communications and rapid project
implementation.
18.   Asset and Facility Maintenance. Since this was a reconstruction program,
existing arrangements were already largely in place for asset maintenance and operations.



- 8 -
D. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
19.   With the possible exception of Cultural Heritage repairs in YP, sustainability of
the reconstructed buildings and facilities is considered highly likely since the programs
were designed and implemented to restore the facilities to their original pre-earthquake
status. The authorities and benefiting communities also took the opportunity to improve
designs and layouts within the criteria set out by IDA for emergency operations. Existing
budgets for operation and maintenance were already in place; no additionality of
operating budget was involved. Construction quality, based on IDA mission site
inspections, in both IMAR and YP was reported to be consistently highly satisfactory. In
1978, China adopted a revised antiseismic Building Design Code for Industrial and
Public Buildings and Infrastructure facilities. Reconstruction was carried out in
accordance with the latest antiseismic code to level VIII of the modified New China
Intensity Scale (NCIS). The effect of this design code was evident in Yunnan since
recently constructed buildings suffered only light damage in comparison with the
extensive damage suffered by pre-1978 buildings. In addition, participation by Naxi
minorities during implementation strengthened the case for sustainability.
20.  In the case of YP Cultural Heritage repairs (see Appendix E for a detailed
description), although this work has been carried out to a consistently high quality in
accordance with emergency construction guidelines issued by the Yunnan Provincial
Government (YPG) in 1996, the concerned authorities acknowledge that a more
comprehensive "Construction Guide" is urgently needed to assist communities living in a
heritage environment in upgrading and repairing properties and facilities. This subject
was discussed extensively with YP authorities during visiting IDA missions throughout
the implementation period. The Guide is expected to be prepared by December 1999.
21.   Overall, YP and IMAR have made a major recovery in the earthquake-affected
areas, with significant benefits accruing to the local economy. Also, additional funding
and indirect benefits have resulted from the IDA-supported reconstruction program.
Schools report improved education benefits (more pupils going for higher education) and
hospitals have increased patient numbers. Infrastructure rehabilitation has impacted
positively on the tourism economy, and the rehabilitated Mu Family Complex in Lijiang,
opening to visitors in May 1999, is expecting revenue from tourism of Y 35 million a
year ($4.2 million a year).
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
22.  IDA's performance on the IMAR and YP programs was satisfactory. Initial
responses to GOC requests for assistance were very prompt. In the case of IMAR, an IDA
reconnaissance/appraisal mission visited IMAR in June 1996, within two weeks of the
request from GOC for emergency assistance. Responding to a request from YPG, an IDA
reconnaissance mission visited the affected area within 10 days of the earthquake
occurrence, and an appraisal mission followed shortly after in March 1996. IDA appraisal
of both programs was satisfactory, although in retrospect it may have been useful for the



-9-
study on "Cultural Asset Construction Guide" to have been better defined at appraisal.
IDA's attempts to coordinate the work on the Construction Guide with activities under
Bank Group-supported cultural asset components in other provinces (Liaoning and
Ningbo) were not successful. During implementation of the IMAR program, substantial
time lags occurred between withdrawal applications and disbursement (despite IDA
procedures being more rapid than normal), requiring IMAR to seek short-term credit
from other sources (suppliers and contractors). The procurement plan agreed to was found
to be effective, and the program did not include unacceptably risky elements, while it met
the most urgent needs of the unfortunate earthquake victims.
23.   During implementation IDA carried out seven supervision missions (three in
IMAR and four in YP) and two ICR missions. This was considered an appropriate level
of supervision, considering the scope and complexity of the program. The mix of
professional disciplines in the missions was appropriate, focusing on implementation,
financial and program planning, procurement, disbursement and cultural asset repair (in
YP), although in the case of YP, economies in the size of some mission teams may have
been possible.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.   The Borrower's performance at all stages and levels was highly satisfactory. The
project management arrangements in both IMAR and YP incorporated the experiences
gained in the earlier disaster-relief IDA-assisted projects (Da Xing An Ling Forest Fire
Rehabilitation Program, FY88, $56.9 million; and the North China Earthquake
Reconstruction Project, FY90, $30.0 million). The strong local leadership and local
management, minimization of "cash flow" delays, genuine community participation, and
IDA's "fast track" processing all contributed to the successful and timely implementation
of the reconstruction programs. Satisfactory progress reports were submitted in a timely
manner. Some contracts in IMAR overran the initial budgets due to inadequate
contingency provisions. In YP, the provincial government instructed the executing
agencies to set aside contingency sums to cover the exchange rate variation. This was not
always done and in a number of supplementary components, contractors were not fully
paid initially; some minor works were completed later than planned due to a shortfall of
local funds. The central authorities (led by the Ministry of Finance) were very effective in
mobilizing IDA support and coordinating the relationship.
25.   The Borrower maintained compliance with the covenants, as required under the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
26.   Modest provisions for Technical Assistance and Training (TA&T) were included
in the IMAR and YP programs (0.3 percent of the total program cost), although specific
studies and training to be undertaken during the reconstruction programs were not defined
at appraisal. Nominal amounts from the TA&T allocations were used by both IMAR and
YP to provide support for project management offices and training of personnel in project
management systems and operation. This was entirely appropriate. Other available TA&T



-10-
funds remained unused. YPG preferred to use local funds for an overseas cultural asset
familiarization study tour. The need for a comprehensive "Construction Guide" for the
reconstruction of cultural assets and facilities for national use was discussed throughout
the project life without achieving any tangible outcome (terms of reference were not
finalized by the closing date). In retrospect: (a) this was a lost opportunity for YPG to
establish construction guidelines for cultural assets; (b) the study content, budget and
time schedule should have been defined during appraisal; and (c) IDA underestimated the
administrative difficulty and time required to coordinate the activities of a number of
cultural asset components in several Bank Group-supported projects (IMAR/YP
Earthquake Reconstruction, Liaoning Environment Project, Ningbo Project).
27.  IDA  supervision missions reported generally satisfactory compliance with
procurement procedures based on selective post-review of documentation, although it
seems in a few cases in YP, in order to achieve high-quality work, contract awards were
based on a judgmental marking system to bidders with prices nearest to the "Engineer's
Estimate," not necessarily the lowest responding bidder (ICR mission discussions with
executing agencies). Overall, it is apparent that the adoption of the above simplified
procurement procedures was entirely appropriate for disaster-relief reconstruction and
had a major impact on the speed and effectiveness of the rehabilitation and repair
programs. In IMAR, the program management office has also incorporated the IDA
guidelines into the Government Procurement Regulations to be implemented at the
regional level from April 1999. Apart from a few minor works, all components were
successfully implemented within the credit closing date (December 31, 1998).
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
28.   The overall assessment of the project is highly satisfactory. The objectives were
fully achieved within a reasonable time and cost. Economic activity has resumed;
education, health and housing services were restored; and the communities were rapidly
able to resume their lives without apparent major unhealed stress. No shortcomings were
found in the program. Both programs were executed efficiently by the respective agencies
in IMAR and YP. The implementation organizations in both cases were based on the
successful model from the earlier IDA-funded North China Earthquake Reconstruction
Project, which emphasized: (a) strong local leadership and program management; (b)
attention to Borrower's priorities; (c) accelerated reconstruction activities; (d) benefits of
using IDA's "fast track" processing; and (e) simplified procurement procedures
consistent with the emergency nature of the reconstruction programs while maintaining
IDA procurement principles.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
29.   The implementation of the disaster relief programs in both IMAR and YP proved
highly successful and could provide a good model for future similar operations should the
need arise, which would hopefully not be soon. Indeed, YPG has proposed requesting
further Bank Group support to assist in developing urban strategies and programs to



enhance economic growth in the Minority Prefectures of Dali, Diqing and Lijiang, based
on the successful experience of the earthquake rehabilitation and repair program in those
prefectures. Assets reconstructed and rehabilitated through the program would be
operated and maintained by persons responsible for these activities before the
earthquakes.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
30.   Key lessons learned from the implementation of this program include:
* Implementation of the program was greatly enhanced through dedicated and sustained
project management through Leading Groups at the Provincial, Prefecture and County
level, supported by properly staffed, full-time project management offices at all
levels. This setup, which was modeled on implementation experience from an earlier
IDA-assisted earthquake relief project, could usefully be adopted for future similar
lending operations.
* The local communities have been consistently involved at all stages of reconstruction
in IMAR and YP. In both cases Naxi minority groups were involved. Such
participation was important for satisfactory implementation and long-term
sustainability.
* The adoption of simplified procurement procedures clearly had a major impact on the
speed and effectiveness of implementation. In IMAR the original program was
completed well ahead of schedule (spurred on by the pending onset of severe winter
weather). Post-review of procurement documentation by visiting IDA missions,
indicated satisfactory compliance with the procurement procedures although it seems
that in a few cases in YP the lowest responding bid was not always accepted (in
attempts to obtain high-quality work). The adoption of similar procedures could be
considered for more widespread use in regular investment lending operations in
appropriate cases subject to rigorous monitoring for compliance.
* Appropriate financial and implementation-tracking systems should be put in place at
the start of the project to avoid delays in implementation and sanctioning of
expenditures.
* In emergency reconstruction programs, early availability of funds or authorization,
together with competent business procedures and record keeping are essential to
address the disaster repairs in a timely manner. Dedicated high-level government
management and close interaction between Provincial, Prefecture and County-level
management teams is essential to achieve success.
* In emergency projects, construction often begins before all design details are
finalized. In such cases it is important to allow generous contingency provisions for
unforeseen problems that may occur during construction.



- 12-
*  The methods successfully adopted for the reconstruction of urban services in an
important and fragile heritage environment clearly demonstrated community
commitment and increased the likelihood of sustainability.
*  An unusual feature of the program in Yunnan was that much reconstruction had to be
undertaken in sites of unique cultural heritage value. This was done successfully,
within the program time scale, restoring the assets to community use (schools,
hospitals, urban fabric and public buildings) (see Appendix E for details).
*  Substantial economic, enviromnental, financial and social indirect benefits can accrue
to the disaster-affected areas through carefully designed rehabilitation and repair
programs; the Earthquake Reconstruction Program is a successful example of this.
*  Rapid and effective focused decisions by Bank Group and client country management
can make a significant positive impact in improving the lives of lower-income
communities, especially in emergency situations; the participation by the affected
community and their leaders however is central to this success.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES-INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION
TABLE IMAR 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives            Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                x
Sector policies                                                                       x
Financial objectives                                                                  x
Institutional development                                               x
Physical objectives                         x
Poverty reduction                           x
Gender issues                                                                         x
Other social objectives-minority support    x
Environmental objectives                    x
Public sector management                                  x
Private sector development                                x
Economic benefits                                                                     x
B. Project Sustainability                Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. IDA Performance                   Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                                    x
Preparation assistance                                            x
Appraisal                                                         x
Supervision                                                       x
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                        x
Implementation                                x
Covenant compliance                                                x
Operation (if applicable)                                          x
E. Assessment of Outcome  Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory Unsatisfactory  Highly Unsatisfactory
x



- 14-
TABLE IMAR 2: RELATED BANK LoANs AND IDA CREDITS
Loan/credit title                     Purpose                  Year of Approval    Status
Cr. 1918-CHA,          Rehabilitation of damages due to forest fire  FY88         Complete
Da Xing An Ling Forest
Fire Rehab
Cr. 2091-CHA,          Rehabilitation of damages due to             FY90          Complete
North China Earthquake  earthquake occurrence
Reconstruction
Ln. 3560-CHA           Restoration and flood protection following   FY90          Complete
Taihu Basin Flood      major floods in lower Yangtze Delta
Control
Cr. 3078-CHA           Rehabilitation of damages due to             FY98           Ongoing
Hebei Earthquake       earthquake occurrence
Rehabilitation
Cr. 3169-CHA           Rehabilitation of damages due to flood       FY99           Ongoing
Ln. 3560-CHA           occurrences
Yangtze Flood
Emergency Project
TABLE IMAR 3: PROGRAM TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle            Date planned             Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                     Combined with appraisal
Preparation                        Combined with appraisal
Appraisal                                June 1996                      June 1996
Negotiations                             July 1996                      July 1996
Board presentation                     Amendment to
Cr. 2307-CHA
Signing                               October 16, 1996             October 16, 1996 /a /b
Effectiveness                         October 16, 1996               October 16, 1996
Program completion                       Mid-1998                   December 31, 1998
Loan closing                         December 31, 1998              December 31, 1998
/a Amendment to Credit 2307-CHA, Guangdong Agricultural Development Project.
/b Further reallocation to Credit 2307-CHA made in March 1998.
TABLE IMAR 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
Financial Year    Appraisal Estimate               Actual          Actual as % of Estimate
Initial      Revised
FY97                1996          1998
17.8         17.80               11.90                    67
FY98                6.9           12.04              15.50                   129
FY99                0.3           0.30                1.07                   400
Total               25.0          30.14              28.47                    95/a
/a The total allocation of SDR 21.159 million to Inner Mongolia was not fully drawn down. At the close,
SDR 20.89 million had been drawn.



- 15 -
TABLE IMAR 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
Indicator                                           Targeted                      Achieved
Health care restoration            49,200 m2 in Baotou City, and Yi & Ba         77,756 m2
Prefectures
Education restoration              76,610 m2 in I I elementary & middle schools in    125,561 m2
Baotou City, and Yi & Ba Prefectures
Village & urban rehabilitation     83,500 housing units in 351 villages in Yi & Ba    As appraised
Prefectures
Power and gas sectors              RC structure round two existing switchgear   As appraised
buildings
Power transmission & distribution lines Rehabilitation in Yi & Ba Prefectures & Baotou    As appraised
City
Gas tank construction              54,999 m3 capacity                           As appraised
TABLE IMAR 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS
None relevant to this program
TABLE IMAR 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROGRAM
Study                   Purpose as defined at Appraisal                     Impact
None defined at appraisal.
Office facility support & training of project management  Very positive benefits for
personnel in management systems & procedures           implementation success



- 16-
TABLE IMAR 8A-1: PROGRAM COST ESTIMATE
($million)
Item                                  Estimate               Supplementary Works Estimate
Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total
1. Bautou Municipality
Health Care                 7.7       0.9       8.6          1.1       0.2       1.3
Education                   8.1       0.7       8.8          2.1       -         2.1
Power Sector                8.2       0.8       9.0          1.4       -         1.4
Infrastructure              1.2       0.1       1.3               -              -
Earthquake Monitor         --        --        --           --        --        --
Subtotal               25.2       2.5      27.7          4.6       0.2       4.8
2. Ba Prefecture
Health Care                 0.5       0.1       0.6          --       --        --
Education                   0.9       0.1       1.0          0.7      --         0.7
Infrastructure              3.4       0.3       3.7          0.4                 0.4
Power Sector                1.4       0.2       1.6          --                 --
Subtotal                6.2       0.6       6.8          1.1      --         1.1
3. Yi Prefecture
Health Care                 0.5       0.1       0.6          --
Education                   0.8       0.2       1.0          0.2     --0.2
Infrastructure              2.6       0.3       2.9          1.3     --1.3
Power Sector                0.6       0.1       0.7          --       --        --
Subtotal                4.6       0.5       5.1          1.5       --        1.5
4. Institutional Development    0.1      --         0.1         --       ----
Total Baseline Cost    36.1       3.6      39.7          7.2       0.2       7.4
Physical Contingencies              Included above
Price Contingencies                 Included above
TOTAL COSTS            36.1       3.6      39.7          7.2       0.2       7.4



- 17 -
TABLE IMAR 8A-2: TOTAL PROGRAM COST ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($million)
Item                              Total Cost Estimate                 Actual Cost
Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total
1. Bautou Municipality
Health Care                 8.8       1.1       9.9          6.2       0.6       6.8
Education                  10.2       0.7      10.9          9.0       -         9.0
Power Sector                9.6       0.8      10.4         10.4       -        10.4
Infrastructure              1.2       0.1       1.3          1.3      --         1.3
Earthquake Monitor         --        --        --            0.2      --         0.2
Subtotal               29.8       2.7      32.5         27.1       0.6      27.7
2. Ba Prefecture
Health Care                 0.5       0.1       0.6          1.2      --         1.2
Education                   1.6       0.1       1.7          2.4      --         2.4
Infrastructure              3.8       0.3       4.1          3.3      --         3.3
Power Sector                1.4       0.2       1.6          0.6      --         0.6
Subtotal                7.3       0.6       7.9          7.5      --         7.5
3. Yi Prefecture
Health Care                 0.5       0.1       0.6          0.9      --         0.9
Education                   1.0       0.2       1.2          2.1      --         .2.1
Infrastructure              3.9       0.3       4.2          4.3      --         4.3
Power Sector                0.6       0.1       0.7          1.4      --         1.4
Subtotal                6.1       0.5       6.6          8.7       --        8.7
4. Institutional Development    0.1      --         0.1          0.1      --        0.1
Total Baseline Cost    43.3       3.8      47.1         43.4       0.6      44.0
Physical Contingencies              Included above
Price Contingencies                 Included above
Total Costs            43.3       3.8      47.1         43.4       0.6      44.0
Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.



- 18-
TABLE IMAR 8B: PROGRAM FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal estimate               Actual/late estimate
Source             Local    Foreign      Total         Local   Foreign    Total
Bank Group
Cr. 2307-CHA
Initial allocation             21.4        3.6      25.0
Additional allocation 1998      4.9        0.2        5.1
Total IDA               26.3       3.8       30.1           27.9       0.6      28.5
Domestic Contribution
GOC, IMAR, Enterprises
Initial allocation              14.7      --         14.7
Additional allocation 1998      2.3       --          2.3
Total Domestic          17.0       -         17.0           15.5      -         15.5
Total                   43.3       3.8       47.1           43.4       0.6      44.0
TABLE IMAR 9: EcoNoMic COSTS AND BENEFITS
Not applied for the ICR as not appropriate



- 19-
TABLE IMAR 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
(only covenants relevant to this program are mentioned)
Loan                           Original     Revised
Agreement  Covenant Present  FulflUment  Fulfillment              Description of
Agreement   Section       Type      Status      Date         Date               Covenant             Comments
DCA        3.01 (c)      3         C                               Borrower to make proceeds of
credit allocated to IMAR & YP
as defined in Sch. 4 of DCA.
DCA        3.02 (b)      3         C        _                      Procurement to be in accordance
I_________ __________ with Schedule 5 of DCA.        _
DCA        4.01 (a)       1        C                               Borrower to cause to be
maintained adequate records and
accounts.
DCA      4.01 (b) i, ii,  1        C          _                    Accounts to be audited by
iii, &                                                 independent auditor acceptable to
Sch. 1, para                                              Association. Audited reports to
3,(d), & (e)                                              be furnished to Association not
later than six months after each
year-end.
DCA    4.01 (c) (i) to   3         C          _            -       For expenditures on basis of
(iv)                                                  "Statements of Expenditures"
maintain records, retain at least
one year after audit report
submitted to Association for
review, & ensure records
included in audit report.
Covenant Class:                                                                 Status:
1 = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not         CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other
TABLE IMAR 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Group Operational Manual Statement
(OD or OP/BP)



- 20 -
TABLE IMAR 12: IDA RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(aggregated for both IMAR and Yunnan)
Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual                                Actual
(Weeks)                               ($'°°°)
Identification                  }
Preappraisal                     }                   14.7                                  61.6
Appraisal & Negotiations         }
Supervision                                          50.4                                 142.1
Completion Report                                     9.5                                  30.0
Total                                       74.6/a                              233.7/a
/a Total for both IMAR and Yunnan programs.
TABLE IMAR 13: IDA RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating lb
Specialized staff   Imple-        Devel-
Stage of project cycle      Monthl   No. of    Days   skills represented    mentation       opment    Type of
year    persons  in field         /a             status      objectives   problem
Identification                                          Included in appraisal
Preparation                                             Included in appraisal
Appraisal                    06/96       4        12         F, ME, C
Board approval through
Effectiveness               10/96       3        3          F, ME, 0
Supervision IB               02/97       3        4           0, P, C                          S
Supervision 2B               10/97       3        4          ME, P, F                          S
Supervision 3B               06/98       3        3           0, P, C                          S
Completion                   04/99       3        2           P, F, C
/a F: Financial Analyst, ME: Municipal Engineer, C: Consultant, 0: Operations Expert, P: Procurement Expert.
lb Regular Form 590 reporting not included in Credit 2307 Reporting, as Yunnan was a separate province and it is for a normal credit
operation; the IMYERP Program was an emergency operation and kept separate records.



- 21 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES-YUNNAN PROVINCE
TABLE YP 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives            Substantial      Partial     Negligible  Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                                 x
Sector policies                                                                        x
Financial objectives                                                                   x
Institutional development                                                x
Physical objectives                          x
Poverty reduction                            x
Gender issues                                                                          x
Other social objectives-minority support     x
Environmental objectives                     x
Public sector management                                   x
Private sector development                                 x
Economic benefits                                                                      x
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. IDA Performance                    Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                     x
Preparation assistance                                             x
Appraisal                                                          x
Supervision                                                        x
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                         x
Implementation                                x
Covenant compliance                                                 x
Operation (if applicable)                                           x
E. Assessment of Outcome Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
x



- 22 -
TABLE YP 2: RELATED BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
Loan/credit title                    Purpose                 Year of Approval    Status
Cr. 191 8-CHA,        Rehabilitation of damages due to forest fire  FY88        Complete
Da Xing An Ling Forest
Fire Rehab
Cr. 2091-CHA,         Rehabilitation of damages due to             FY90         Complete
North China Earthquake  earthquake occurrence
Reconstruction
Ln. 3560-CHA          Restoration and flood protection following   FY90         Complete
Taihu Basin Flood     major floods in lower Yangtze Delta
Control
Cr. 3078-CHA          Rehabilitation of damnages due to            FY98          Ongoing
Hebei Earthquake      earthquake occurrence
Rehabilitation.
Cr. 3169-CHA          Rehabilitation of damages due to flood       FY99          Ongoing
Ln. 3560-CHIA         occurrences
Yangtze Flood
Emergency Project
TABLE YP 3: PROGRAM TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle           Date planned            Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                        February 1996                 February 1996
Preparation                       Combined with appraisal       Combined with appraisal
Appraisal                              March 1996                    March 1996
Negotiations                            July 1996                     July 1996
Board presentation                    Amendment to
Cr. 2307-CHA
Signing                                                          October 16, 1996 /a /b
Effectiveness                                                      October 16, 1996
Program completion                      Mid-1998                  December 31, 1998
Loan closing                        December31, 1998              December31, 1998
/a Amendment to Credit 2307-CHA, Guangdong Agricultural Development Project.
/b Further reallocation to Credit 2307-CHA made in March 1998.
TABLE YP 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($ million)
Financial Year      Appraisal Estimate            Actual         Actual as % of Estimate
Orig.    Suppl.  Total
FY97              16.3       --    16.3             11.71                   71.8
FY98              18.4      2.0   20.4              21.54                  105.6
FY99               0.3      5.0    5.3               6.84                  129.8
Total             35.0      7.0   42.0              40.10/a                 95.6
/a Although the YP allocation was fully drawn down, the actual amount received was $40.1 million
equivalent due to SDR devaluation.



- 23 -
TABLE YP 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
Indicator                 Targeted                    Targeted                     Achieved
(As appraised, 1996)     (Additional Works, 1998)
Education rehabilitation    Rehabilitation of 1 10,00m2 in 45 Rehabilitation of 13,700 rn2 in 12 Rehabilitation of 125,000 mi2 and
primary & secondary schools in  schools in four counties.  equipment in 47 middle &
four counties.                                          primary schools in four counties.
Health Centers          Rehabilitation of 25,000m2 area  Rehabilitation of 3,600 m2 area & Rehabilitation of 30,000 m2 area
in six hospitals.           equipment.                  & equipment in eight hospitals.
Cultural Heritage Rehab.                            Confucius temple             As appraised.
repairs to school
Lijiang Old City        Mu Cultural Center: 20,000 nm2  _5,000 M2                Mu House-25,000 m2-as
Public Buildings: 2,100 m2                              appraised. 15,300 families.
Families to benefit: 15,300.
Zhongdian City                                      500 houses                   As appraised.
materials
Jianchuan Shi Baoshan   Repairs to damages                                       As appraisal
Dynasty Museum Park
Infrastructure Rehab.
Lijiang Water Supply    150 km, pipes sizes: 25-150 mm                           As appraised.
Rehabilitation          dia.
WTW-20,000m3
Transmission pipe 11 km.
Lijiang Sanitation &    Culvert 3 km. 100 latrines.  Drainage pipe 8.2 km. & STP of Culvert 4 km. 20 toilets./a
Drainage Rehabilitation.                            30,000  l3/d cap.            Drainage pipe & STP as
appraised.
Heqing County           Water sup. - 6,000 m3/d.                                 Water supply 9000 m3/d.
Mains 150-500 mm dia.                                   Supply main 8 km length.
10 km length.
Jianchuan County        Pipeline rehab., 100-300 mm dia.,                        Pipeline as appraised.
14 km length.                                           6,000 m3/d water supply
_____________________________                          rehabilitated.
Zhongdian Water Supply   Water sup.6,000 m3/d                                    As appraised.
pipeline 100-500 mm dia.
25 km length.
Jianchuan Irrigation    7 km length of conveyor.                                 As appraised.
Conveyor
Lijiang Spine Road      Roadside drainage 600-800 mm                             As appraised.
| _________________ _  |dia. 1,200  m   long.      l
Lijiang Airport-Heqing  25 km. surfacing & retaining wall 25 km surfacing & retaining wall As appraised.
Road                    repairs.                    rep
Industry                Rehabilitation in eight industrial Rehabilitation. in four  Rehabilitation in 12 enterprises.
enterprises.                enterprises.
Power                   Rehabilitation in three     Repair of further 3,000 m2   Rehabilitation in three power
hydropower plants.          building                    plants
/a Balance of latrines built by local resources.
Note: About one third of housing units damaged by the earthquake were repaired under the project; the balance was done by local
programs, partly government assisted.
TABLE YP 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROGRAM OPERATIONS
Not relevant to this program and ICR



- 24 -
TABLE VP 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROGRAM
Study                      Purpose as defined at Appraisal                    Impact
None defied at appraisal.
Office facility support & training of project management personnel in    Highly effective
._____  management systems and procedures
Study tour of cultural heritage sites also undertaken, led by Vice  Highly effective
Governor
TABLE YP 8A-1: PROGRAM COST ESTIMATE
($million)
Item                                   Estimate               Supplementary Works Estimate
Local   Foreign     Total        Local   Foreign    Total
Education                       9.4       0.9       10.4          1.9       0.0       1.9
Health                          4.6       0.5        5.1          1.5       0.0       1.5
Cultural Heritage               7.2       0.7        7.9         0.6        0.0       0.6
Infrastructure                  1.0       3.2       13.2         4.2       0.0        4.2
Industry                        9.9       1.7       11.6          1.3       0.0       1.3
Power Sector                    5.2       1.5       6.9          0.5       0.0        0.5
Institutional Development       0.2       0.0        0.2         0.0       0.0        0.0
Total                   46.7       8.6      55.3         10.0       0.0      10.0
Physical Contingencies               Included above
Price Contingencies                 Included above
Total Costs             46.7       8.6      55.3         10.0       0.0      10.0



- 25 -
TABLE YP 8A-2: TOTAL PROGRAM COST ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
($million)
Item                              Total Cost Estimate                 Actual Cost
Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total
Education                      11.3       0.9      12.2         14.6      0.0      14.6
Health                          6.1       0.5       6.6         6.1       0.0       6.1
Cultural Heritage               7.8       0.7       8.5          7.8      0.0       7.8
Infiastructure                 14.2       3.2      17.4         16.1      0.0      16.1
Industry                       11.2       1.7      12.9         11.8       0.0     11.8
Power Sector                    5.7       1.5       7.2          6.7      0.0       6.7
Institutional Development       0.2       0.0       0.2          0.0      0.0       0.0/a
Total                  56.7       8.6      65.3         63.1       0.0      63.1
Physical contingencies              Included above
Price contingencies                 Included above
Total Costs            56.7       8.6      65.3         63.1       0.0      63.1
/a $22,000 equivalent used for project office equipment and staff training.
Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.
TABLE YP 8B: PROGRAM FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal estimate              Actual/late estimate
Source            Local    Foreign     Total        Local   Foreign    Total
Bank Group
Cr. 2307-CHA
Initial allocation            26.4       8.6      35.0
Additional allocation 1998     7.1       -         7.1
Total II)A            33.5        8.6      42.1          40.1      -        40.1/a
Domestic Contribution
GOC, YP, Enterprises
Initial allocation            20.3      --        203
Additional allocation 1998     2.9       -         2.9
Total Domestic        23.2       -         23.2         23.0       -        23.0
Total                 56.7        8.6      65.3          63.1      -        63.1
/a Although the credit allocation was fully drawn down in SDRs, the amount disbursed in US dollar
equivalent was $40.1 million instead of $42.1 million, due to devaluation of the SDR vs. the US dollar and
the Yuan over the project period.



- 26 -
TABLE YP 9: EcONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Not applied for the ICR as not appropriate
TABLE YP 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
(only covenants relevant to this program are mentioned)
Loan                            Original     Revised
Agreement  Covenant  Present  Fulfillment  Fulfillment             Description of
Agreement   Section        Type     Status       Date         Date               Covenant              Comments
DCA        3.01 (c)       3         C                               Borrower to make proceeds of
credit allocated to IMAR & YP
as defined in Sch. 4 of DCA.
DCA        3.02 (b)       3         C                               Procurement to be in accordance
with Schedule 5 of DCA.
DCA        4.01 (a)       I         C          _                    Borrower to cause to be
maintained adequate records and
accounts.
DCA      4.01 (b) i, ii,  1         C                               Accounts to be audited by
iii, &                                                  independent auditor acceptable to
Sch. 1, para                                               Association. Audited reports to
3,(d), & (e)                                              be fumished to Association not
later than six months after each
year-end.
DCA    4.01 (c) (i) to    3         C                               For expenditures on basis of
(iv)                                                   "Statements of Expenditures"
maintain records, retain at least
one year after audit report
submitted to Association for
review, & ensure records
included in audit report.
Covenant Class:                                                                   Status:
1 = Accounts/audits                 8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting     CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not          CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project      covered by categories 1-9
funds                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6= Environmental covenants              regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement       13 = Other
TABLE YP 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Group Operational Manual Statement
(OD or OP/BP)



- 27 -
TABLE YP 12: IDA RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(aggregated for both IMAR and Yunnan)
Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual                                Actual
(Weeks)                               ($'000)
Identification                   }
Preappraisal                     }                    14.7                                  61.6
Appraisal & Negotiations         }
Supervision                                           50.4                                 142.1
Completion Report                                      9.5                                  30.0
Total                                       74.6/a                               233.7/a
/a Total for both IMAR and Yunnan programs.
TABLE YP 13: IDA RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating /b
Specialized staff   Imple-         Devel-
Stage of project cycle      Month/   No. of    Days   skills represented    mentation         opment    Type of
year    persons  in field         /a              status      objectives   problem
s
Identification               02/96        1        3             SE
Preparation                                              Included in appraisal
Appraisal                    03/96       3         14         F, ME, C
Board approval through
Effectiveness               10/96       3         3          F, ME, 0
Supervision IA               10196       7         4      0(2), P, CH, ME,                      S
SE, F
Supervision 2A               07/97       3         5         0, CH, ME                          S
Supervision 3A               12/97       2         5           0, CH                            S
Supervision 4A               12/98       7         6     CH, F, ME, PH, IN,                     S
0
Completion                   04/99       2         5            P, SE                                        -
/a SE: Sanitary Engineer, F: Financial Analyst, ME: Municipal Engineer, C: Consultant, 0: Operations Expert, P: Procurement
Expert, CH: Cultural Heritage Expert, PH: Photographer, IN: Institutional Specialist.
/b Regular Form 590 reporting not included in Credit 2307 Reporting, as Yunnan was a separate province and it is for a normal credit
operation; the IMYERP Program was an emergency operation and kept separate records.






- 29 -                     Appendix A
APPENDIX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE-INNER
MONGOLIA
(April 9 to 12, 1999)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
FINAL
Contents
Main Text
Annex 1     List of Persons Met
Annex 2     The Statistic Table Of The Implementation Status Of $30.14 Million IDA
Credited IMERP By The
End Of 1998 (Provided by PMO and available separately)
Main Text
1.    A World Bank Implementation Completion Report Mission visited Baotou, Inner
Mongolia during April 9 to 12, 1999 to discuss the draft ICR Inner Mongolia earthquake
component of the Inner Mongolia/Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction Program
(IMYERP) with the project officials from Inner Mongolia Regional, Municipal and
County Project offices. The mission comprised Messes Yang Dawei, Chen Fang and Ken
Rippin (Consultant).
2.    The mission expresses its appreciation for the support and hospitality received
from the officials of Inner Mongolia Regional Government (IMRG), Baotou Municipal
Governments and the various project offices at regional, municipal, prefecture and county
level in Baotou City (Annex 1). The Bank received the Borrower's contribution to the
ICR in March, 1999. The mission congratulated the various project offices for the
successfully completion of the project.
3.    The mission discussed with the various project executing agencies a draft ICR. In
addition to the Statistical Table of the Implementation Status of $30.14 Million IDA
Credit IMERP By The End Of 1998 (Annex 2 ) provided by the regional Project Office,
the mission has also received the completion report from project offices of Baotou
Municipality, Yi and Ba Leagues and IM Earthquake Bureau during the discussion. This
Aide-Memoire briefly describes the project completion status and addresses issues
needed for ICR finalization. Major mission findings will be contained in the ICR.



- 30 -                    Appendix A
Completion Status
4.    The mission found that since the previous mission 3B in June 1998 the authorities
and the concerned communities had completed all the reconstruction of damaged or
destroyed facilities, with two minor exceptions. By the end of 1998 nearly all the
construction of various projects and sub-projects had been completed except two sub-
projects supported by supplement IDA Credit which will be completed in 1999 after
1998-1999 winter. These two sub-projects are some minor works on the Baotou Industrial
school and the hospital attached to the Baotou Medical College.
5.    Based on the information provided to the mission (Annex 2), it is understood that
the following value of works was completed by the end of 1998:
Sub-projects supported by $25 million IDA Credit
Component                 Total Project Cost (US$,000)  Percent Completed
Education                 9,975                     98.1%
Health                    8,065                     98%
Housing                   7,229                     97.4%
Public Utilities          10,903                    100%
Earthquake Monitoring     243                       100%
TA                        107.5                     83.7%
Total                     36,521                    98.5%
Sub-projects supported by Supplement $5.14 million IDA Credit
Component                 Total Project Cost (US$,000)  Percent Completed
Baotou                    4,199.6                   103.5%
Yi League                 1,543                     100%
Ba League                 1,100                     100%
Regional Education Bureau   602.4                   80.6%
Total                     7,445                     99.9%
Total of all projects supported by $30.14 million IDA Credit
____=____ _   Total Project Cost (US$,000) J Percent Completed
Total                     43,966.3                  98.7%
6.    The mission was provided a statistical table of the implementation status of the
$30.14 million IDA credited to IMERP by the end of 1998 (Annex 2) which presented
the data on planned, contracted and completed investment amount and percentage in
terms of IDA credit, counter-part fund and total cost; planned, contracted and completed
building floor area (m2) and percentage; date of commencement and completion of each
sub-project and procurement arrangements.
7.    The work completed to the end of 1998 is summarized below.



- 31 -                    Appendix A
Sub-projects supported by $25 million IDA Credit
Component                 Total Building Area (m2) Percent Completed compared
to contracted value
Education                 118,063               98.9%
Health                    77,765                100.2%
Housing                   166,547               100%
Public Utilities          55,190                100.1%
Earthquake Monitoring     770                   100%
TA                                              83.7 %
Total                     418,335               99.7%
Sub-projects supported by Supplement $5.14 million IDA Credit
Component                 Total Building Area (m2)  Percent Completed
Baotou                    8,180                     39.5%
Yi League                 19,275                    100%
Ba League                 17,960                    100%
Regional Education Bureau   6,278                   80.6%
Total                     51,693                    70.7%
Total of all projects supported by $30.14 million IDA Credit
|_____________________________ T Total Building Area (m2)  Percent Completed
Total                    | 470,028                 | 93.9
8.    There are 56 sub-projects (47 sub-projects supported by $25 million IDA Credit
and 9 sub-projects supported by supplement $5.14 million IDA Credit) in 6 sectors of
Education, Health, Housing, Public Utilities, Earthquake Monitoring and TA. Of these,
54 have been completed and put into operation. The main structures of Baotou Municipal
Industrial School and the Affiliated Hospital of Baotou Medical College were completed
at the end of 1998 but because of the coming of winter, the finishing, power supply, water
supply and equipment installation was postponed and will be completed in the spring,
1999 using counterpart funds.
Project Management
9.    Project leading groups and project offices have been successfully operated for
nearly 3 years since being established at the beginning of the project. The project leading
groups and the project offices at regional, municipal and county level will be disbanded
after internal account closing and approval of the Government.
10.   The Provincial, municipal, prefecture and county Financial Bureaus will take
responsibility together with the project beneficiaries for repayment of the IDA credit.



- 32 -                     Appendix A
Project Procurement
11. The project has been procured according to DCA Schedule 5 and benefited from
simplified procurement procedures. The results of post review in previous supervision
missions have demonstrated that the legal covenants on procurement stated in the
Schedule 5 of the DCA have been fulfilled. The procurement of 50,000 m3 dry type gas
tank for Baotou Gas company and CT instruments for Baotou No. 4 hospital have be
prior reviewed by the Bank and cleared from the Bank's HQ in Washington DC.
12. The advertisement of bidding for Baotou No.2 and No. 4 hospitals was appeared on
Baotou Daily although Shopping is allowed in the legal documents. The procurement of
50,000 cubic meter dry type gas tank was advertised on China Mechanical and Electrical
Daily by the procurement agent, International Tendering Corporation of China Machine
and Equipment Import and Export Corp. The contract was awarded to a township
enterprise of Jiangsu province in East China at the lowest bid price. The works was
completed in time at high quality. By bidding Baotou gas company has saved the cost of
10%. The project office of IMAR is established in No. 1 Division of Regional
Government Office which is in charge of preparation of Government Procurement
Regulations of IMAR. Since PMO has learned the Bank's procurement policy and
guidelines by executing IMERP and the project has benefited a lot, they has incorporated
the Bank's guidelines into their own Government Procurement Regulations which has
been approved by Regional Government. This regulations will be implemented at
regional level from April 20, 1999. Then, after trial period, this regulations will be
disseminated to government of all level in IMAR. IMAR has been the one of a few early
provinces to draft government procurement regulations in China.
13. Construction of Baotou No.2 and No. 4 hospitals met foundation problem cursing
estimated cost overrun. This has shown that enough contingency should be reserved for
emergency recovery projects in case the time is urgent and design time is short.
Disbursement
14.   The total credit allocated to the Project component has been SDR 21,117
thousand, including the initial allocation of SDR17,370 thousand and the supplementary
allocation of SDR3,747 thousand. The special account set up for Inner Mongolia was
fully recovered on Feb 19, 1999. To date (within four months after Closing Date), 14
withdrawal applications have been submitted to IDA. Among them, the No.1 to No.13
withdrawal applications have a total reimbursement of SDR 20.01 million, equivalent to
USD 28.42 million. The final No. 14 withdrawal application of USD297,226 (equivalent
to SDR 0.21 million) submitted on March 22, 1999, is claimed for direct payment on
eligible expenditures incurred. This will need adjusting to avoid overdrawing. It is likely
that Inner Mongolia will draw down all the allocated credit proceeds of SDR 21,117
thousand if their No. 14 withdrawal application is fully reimbursed by IDA. It is expected
that this would be done to ensure the smooth completion of the Project.



- 33 -                    Appendix A
Category             Authorized amount      Disbursed amount
(SDR thousand)         (SDR thousand)
Civil Works                        17,247                    ?
Goods                              3,800
Training and Consultants             70                     60
Total                              21,117                    ?
15.   Actual contract payment under the project is in local currency at the exchange rate
of 1 USD = 8.23 CNY. The procurement plan was in USD at the fixed exchange rate of 1
USD = 8.3 CNY and IDA Credit is in SDR at the exchange rate of 1 SDR = 1.4393 USD
in 1996 and I SDR = 1.3595 USD in 1998. Since the devaluation of USD to SDR, even
the IDA credits are fully withdrawn, most executing agencies found difficulty to fulfill
the procurement plan in terms of USD.
Actions to be taken and Next Steps
16.   Based on the various discussions and meetings with the concerned project
agencies, the mission draws attention to the following steps which should be addressed in
order to submit the Project Completion Report to the Bank Management before June 30,
1999:
(a)   Final Audit Report and audited financial statement for fiscal year 1998
shall be provided for the Bank's review in May 1999 when it is due.
(b)   Bank will provided its draft ICR to the Borrower for their comments
shortly after this mission concludes in both Inner Mongolia and Yunnan. Comments
should be sent to the Bank within two weeks after receiving the Bank's draft.



- 34 -                    Appendix A
CHINA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(Credit 2307-CHA)
Inner Mongolia Earthquake Reconstruction Program
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
(April 9 to 12, 1999)
ANNEX 1. LIST OF PERSONS MET
Persons from Hohhot:
Mr. Jia Feng:     Division Chief of Foreign Economic Div. Regional Planning
Committee
Mr. Song Liang:    Division Chief of No.1 Div. Office, Regional Government,
Regional PMO
Mr. Yu Xuezhong:  Staff member of Regional Project Office
Ms. Xie Huiping    Staff of Foreign Economic Div. Regional Finance Bureau
Mr. Yang AiJun    Staff of Foreign Economic Div. Regional Finance Bureau
Ms. Wang Ping     Interpreter, Regional Foreign Affairs Office
Mr. Chang Ming    PMO of Regional Electric Power Bureau
Mr. Li Xian:      Chief of Planning Div., Regional Earthquake Bureau
Mr. Chen JinLiang   Chief of Science Research Div., Regional Earthquake Bureau
Persons from Baotou:
Mr. Geng Zhixiang: Dep. Secretary General of Baotou Government
Mr. Du Shougang:  Director of Baotou Planning Committee
Director of Baotou Project Office
Mr. Liu Zhongbing: Div. Chief of Baotou Planning Committee
Dep. Director of Baotou Project Office
Ms. Zhang Yanming: Chief of Foreign Economic Div. Baotou Financial Bureau
From Dongsheng, Yi Prefecture
Mr. Zhao Hu:      Deputy Chief of Prefecture Finance Bureau
Ms. Yun Meiling    Division Chief of Foreign Economic Div. Prefecture Finance
Bureau
From Dalate County:
Mr. Sun Youshi:    Director of Project Office, County Financial Bureau
From Wuladeqian County:
Mr. Liu Junbi:          Director of Project Office, Assistant to County Governor



- 35 -                     Appendix A
Annex 2
CHINA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(Credit 2307-CHA)
Inner Mongolia Earthquake Reconstruction Program
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
(April 9 to 12, 1999)
Annex 5. The Statistic Table of The Implementation Status
of $30.14 Million IDA Credit at the end of 1998
(Provided by PMO during the mission and contained in project files, available upon
request.)



-36 -                      Appendix B
APPENDIX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE-YUNNAN
AIDE-MEMOIRE NO. SA
FINAL
December 22, 1998
1.    A World Bank mission visited Yunnan during November 18 to 24, 1998 in order
to supervise the Yunnan earthquake component of the Inner Mongolia/Yunnan
Earthquake Reconstruction Program (YERP). The mission comprised Messrs. Donald
Hankey, Patrick McCarthy, Zhang Zhun, Curt Carnemark, Katrinka Ebbe, Dawei Yang
and Geoffrey Read (mission leader).
2.    The mission expresses its appreciation for the support and hospitality received
from the Yunnan Provincial Government (YPG) officials and the officials of the
Prefectural, municipal, and county governments of Lijiang, Dali and Diqing, officials of
the project entities and members of the project communities, including those met at the
various project sites. A list of persons met is shown in Annex 1.
3.    The mission met with the various government entities and the executing agencies,
to supervise the project. This Aide-Memoire provides a summary of mission findings and
recommendations, and is confirmed by World Bank management, following review in
Washington. The mission sets out below the main findings and principal issues that need
to be addressed.
Summary of Mission Findings
4.    The mission found that, following an effective start providing immediate relief to
the effected communities, during the past year the authorities and the concerned
communities had made impressive and significant progress by substantially completing
implementation of the entire reconstruction program identified at appraisal. Recovery
from many of the effects of the earthquake has been impressive, and a significant amount
of reconstruction work has been fully completed. The communities impacted by the
earthquake, appear to have substantially recovered from both the physical destruction and
the emotional trauma of the disaster. High credit is due to the management skills of the
Yunnan Provincial and Prefecture authorities, and to the local communities for their
resilience.
5.   In addition, the mission found that the effectiveness of the IDA resources made
available for the program has been greatly enhanced from a normal IDA/Bank financed
operation due to the following:



- 37 -                    Appendix B
. Leadership. As mentioned above, the government ensured rapidly mobilized,
dedicated, and sustained project management leadership, through a Provincial Vice
Governor-led Leading Group, and local-level prefecture government support at all
stages of reconstruction;
*  Community Involvement. This and previous Bank missions have found that there has
been all-encompassing community involvement at every stage of reconstruction - this
finding is based both on mission observation and informal interviews with the project
participants. Yunnan is possibly unique in this aspect, being a province of minorities;
.  Procurement. The Bank's agreement to using simplified procurement procedures
clearly had a major impact on the speed and effectiveness of implementation. The
Bank's supervision missions have found that these procedures proved to be time and
cost-effective, and did generate competition. The mission will recommend to
management that these simplified procedures should be considered for more
widespread use in regular investment lending operations;
  Obtaining Supplementary Resources. Considerable additional and supplementary
resources in cash and in kind were provided by the Provincial Government, local
government, the local communities, project beneficiaries (including those directly
impacted by the earthquake) and outside donors (such as groups of overseas Chinese).
This effectively leveraged the IDA funds by a factor of 2 to 3 (mission rough
estimate) and also leveraged the non-IDA funds vice versa. All this was done in the
context of Yunnan being a low income province;
* Funds availability. The Provincial Government either made funds readily available or
gave authorization to incur expenditures as soon as the magnitude of the disaster was
realized. In addition, competent business procedures and record keeping consistent
with good project management was implemented simultaneously. Credit for this goes
to the Finance Bureau, the Construction Commission, and the Prefecture
Governments;
Creative Planning under Emergency Conditions. When facilities were rehabilitated/
reconstructed, the authorities and beneficiary communities took advantage to improve
designs, equipment and layouts, while remaining within the IDA/Bank criteria laid
down for emergency operations; IDA funds are intended to be applied to rehabilitate
and reconstruct to a similar level of service as that which prevailed before the
emergency - the various supervision missions were satisfied that this guideline had
been followed. This has meant that most of the replacement investments will provide
incrementally improved long-term service. Since the items reconstructed were
generally parts of existing infrastructure, budget provision for operations and
maintenance is generally included in the existing budgets.



- 38 -                    Appendix B
Mission Findings
Credit Amount
6.    The total allocation made to Yunnan Province for completing its portion of the
Inner Mongolia and Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction Program is SDR29.4297 million.
This figure comprises an initial allocation (first phase) of SDR24.24 million, and a
supplementary allocation (second phase) of SDR5. 1897 million.
Financing Plan
7.    Yunnan's earthquake reconstruction program has been funded by IDA and
Yunnan Province in the following approximate proportions: IDA - 65 percent; Yunnan -
35 percent.
Funds Flow
8.    The flow of funds (both IDA Credit proceeds and counterpart funding) has been
through established channels between higher and lower authorities, i.e., Province,
Prefecture and Counties.
Disbursements
9.    To date, 15 withdrawal applications have been submitted to IDA. 14 withdrawal
applications have been reimbursed for a total of SDR28.1 million, equivalent to US$38.2
million, or Y316.8 million. About US$4.3 million of the Special Account has been
recovered, leaving a balance of US$1.7 million. Depending on the rate of exchange
applied, the reimbursement of Withdrawal Application No. 15, for US$1.8 million,
submitted on October 30, 1998, could fully draw down the Credit and pay off the balance
of the Special Account. If that is not to be the case, the Yunnan Provincial Finance
Bureau has pending a further Y15 million, or US$1.8 million equivalent, of eligible
expenditures which it could claim the remaining balance of the Credit..
10.  It is likely that Yunnan will draw down all the proceeds of the IDA Credit
allocated to it by December 31, 1998, the Closing Date of the Credit. If necessary, IDA
may permit Yunnan to claim reimbursement of any eligible expenditures incurred prior to
the Closing Date up to four months after that date. It is expected this would be done.
11.   The mission reviewed the procedures used to account for, record and claim
reimbursement of eligible expenditures. It spot-checked the records and accounts,
statements of expenditures (SOE) and supporting documentation held in (a) Lijiang
Prefecture Project Office, (b) Heqing No. 1 Middle School, and (c) Diqing Pulp Works.
The relevant documentation was readily available and complete in every respect. The
mission commends all parties on the excellent record keeping and accounting of project
expenditures.



-39 -                     Appendix B
Status of Implementation
12.   The status of implementation of the Program with respect to the financing of
agreed projects and subprojects is shown as Annex 2. This also shows the status of
implementation of Lijiang Prefecture subprojects up to November 19, 1998.
13.  In Lijiang Prefecture, there were 21 subprojects in the first phase and 11
subprojects in the second phase, of which five subprojects were extensions of subprojects
in the first phase. There was therefore a total of 27 subprojects in Lijiang Prefecture, of
which 25 have been completed and 2 have some remaining work. The mission commends
all concerned on this excellent achievement. The projects in Diqing and Dali Prefectures
have been completed, except for minor tidying up of the construction sites in some cases.
14.   Based on the information provided to the mission, it was found that that the
following works have been completed:
Works Contracted   Project       %
Cost       Complete
RMBY million
Dali Prefecture          100%        113.1       99%
Lijiang Prefecture       100%        301.3       95%
Diqing Prefecture        100%        42.1        99%
Total                    100%        456.5       97%
15.   Details are shown in Annex 2. The mission recommends that on completion of full
disbursement of the Credit, Annex 2 be updated to reflect the final disbursement against
each subproject.
16.   The mission congratulated the Provincial, Prefecture and local level authorities,
and the communities at the impressive progress made following the earthquake, in
restoring basic facilities, and meeting the needs of the people.
Project Management
17.   The following arrangements were established for managing and implementing the
project:
Leading Groups: one leading group at the Provincial level, headed by a vice-
governor; three leading groups at the Prefectural level (Dali, Lijiang and Diqing),under
the leadership of the Cormmissioners of the Prefectures; and four leading groups at the
County level (Heqing and Jianchuan Counties in Dali Prefecture; Lijiang County in
Lijiang Prefecture, and Zhongdian County in Diqing Prefecture), under the leadership of
the Vice Governors of the Counties;



- 40 -                     Appendix B
Project Offices: one Project Office at the Provincial level, located in Kunming;
four project offices at the Prefectural level; four County project offices; and 40
subproject offices, have been established at the implementing agency level.
18.   All of the above project and subproject offices functioned satisfactorily during
implementation. The small amount of remaining works to be completed will be the
responsibility of the Lijiang Project Office, under overall guidance of the Prefectural
leading group, and the Province.
19.   Yunnan Province, the Prefectures and the participating counties are to be
commended for this institutional framework. These arrangements enabled the project to
be implemented fully satisfactorily. However, appropriate financial and project progress
tracking systems were put in place later than expected; this should be given attention on
future projects of this kind. In this case, the delays did not hinder the emergency
response, since funds or the required authorizations to incur expenditures and enter into
contracts were provided rapidly by the relevant authorities. This rapid response
competence was in the view of the mission one of the main reasons for project success.
Procurement post review
20.   The mission reviewed a portion of the procurement documents of Heqing No. 1
Middle School at the office of the school, and found the records were in order; based on
the review of the available materials, the mission was satisfied that procurement
procedures agreed at negotiations had been followed. Based on several discussions held
by the mission, the mission concluded that the Bank's small works procurement
procedures set out in the Credit Development Agreement and the Operations
Implementation Plan (OIP) for this emergency project had been followed by the project
offices. The adoption of these procedures, which are similar to the local procurement
procedures and easy to follow, have contributed heavily to the successful implementation
of the project. In addition, the competent management, coordination and high level of
ownership by the project offices in the provincial, prefectural and county level, have led
to achieving results on the ground.
Cultural Heritage, Urban Upgrading and Architectural Rehabilitation
21.   There has been considerable progress in the project since the last mission. The
works are well advanced and nearing completion on all cultural heritage and architectural
rehabilitation components of the Program. The mission was able to express its
satisfaction that the quality of the works on this project (with many diverse building types
needing repair or renewal) that the management of the emergency construction works has
been very good. The Mu Dynasty complex and the principle areas of city renewal and
repair have been carried out efficiently. The schools and hospitals have been energetically
completed and the contribution from the Chinese Government has added significant value
and sustainability to the quality and service that the buildings and their functions can



- 41 -                     Appendix B
offer to the community. Detailed findings and recommendations for future consideration
are shown on Annex 3.
22.   The Mu dynasty complex would not be fully complete by the project closing date
(December 1998) due to the scale of the works, and the need to give sufficient attention
to authentication and quality control; the importance of these two items was fully
recognized by all concerned, in view of the pending application by Lijiang and China to
obtain World Heritage status for Lijiang. It was agreed that a further visit will be needed
when the works are finally complete in the Spring of 1999. The Lijiang administration
confirmed that the execution of works had required research into the significance and the
value of the original entailing an unusual time for project preparation.
23.   The mission noted the following areas of improvement recommended for the
execution of future project planning and implementation arising out of observations made
during the visit:-
Mu Dynasty complex
* The final use for the buildings of the Mu Dynasty complex must be urgently
decided in relation to the market for tourism, education, employment and
commerce;
* The proposed future use of the buildings must determine the optimum supply
and location of services for lighting, power supply, drainage, sanitation, water,
and other environmental controls;
* Should the storage of organic and other sensitive materials be required
appropriate environmental controls must be installed. Also while the climate of
Lijiang is mild, it is sufficiently cold in winter for some spaces being used for
sedentary occupation to need adequate heating;
- The staffing, operation and management of the Complex must be worked out,
and facilities for the training of staff must be selected;
3 The interpretation and presentation of the site for the benefit of the tourism,
education and employment must be urgently evaluated and researched by
academics and specialists so that the marketing of this special tourist facility
can successfully be undertaken; and
* The financial and economic sustainability and the target revenues that can be
generated by the project must be stated and costs of the operation and
maintenance agreed with the administration.
Old Lijiang - Dayan City
. Dayan City upgrading requires further consideration in the light of its high
profile in the tourism market. Urban services of street lighting, soil drainage
services, fire fighting, electrical services distribution, and access needs to be
further improved in order to ensure the sustainability of the old City as a place
for safe and healthy tourism, commerce and habitation; and



- 42 -                    Appendix B
There is an urgent need for the research and publication of guidelines for the
improvement to the construction of traditional buildings in a manner that
retains their historical and cultural value and significance. The mission
provided a draft Terms of Reference (TOR) for the preparation of these
guidelines (see attachment to Annex 3).
He Qing No 1 Middle School
* As for the Mu dynasty complex the No I Middle School requires the services to
be appropriately arranged for the required functions. Adaptation to completed
works will be required to install services after completion of the building
works; and
* The installation of toilets for the girls dormitories has been inadequately
considered and adaptation to the site plan is advised by the mission.
Zhong Dian Hospital
. The works to the hospital have been completed without the adequate
consideration of functional layouts so that the location of services as installed
is inadequate and unrelated to the probable functions. The location of electrical
services too close to water services is a threat to health and safety.
T The expenditure of money of high quality finishes in public and circulation
areas is in contrast to the lack of thought given to the quality of services and
the environmnent in the functional areas.
Heritage Construction Manual & Guide
In order to ensure sustainability of the investments in the repairs of the Old Town,
the mission agreed with the Lijiang authorities (as had been discussed during previous
missions) that a construction guide was still badly needed; this would assist communities
living in a heritage environment when undertaking upgrading and making improvements
to residential and institutional properties. These improvements relate to the installation of
services, improvements to the insulation against wind and the cold, and help in planning
for safety, means of escape in case of fire and other desirable characteristics of a modern
household. It was recognized that if the properties are not improved there, is a risk that
Dayan City would not remain attractive for domestic housing. A draft Terms of
Reference for a group of local and international specialists to prepare the Manual is
shown in Annex 3.
Provision for Future Maintenance.
24.   The mission reminded all concerned of the need for making full and adequate
budget provision for the long term maintenance of the assets which had been financed
through the project.



-43 -                     Appendix B
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
25.   The mission requested that the project authorities prepare an ICR, reflecting their
views on implementation and completion of the project, and in particular, highlight
lessons learned. Examples of typical ICRs were provided to the Provincial Project Office.
YPG agreed to prepare a draft ICR and submit this for Bank review before the end of
February, 1999.
Next Supervision Mission
26.   The next supervision mission would be scheduled, depending of overall progress,
to suite YPG and the IMYERP Yunnan Program Project Office. It is expected to take
place early in 1999, and would focus on reviewing the draft ICR.
Agreed Actions/Recommendations                               Due Date
By Yunnan:
Prepare draft ICR                                March 1999
Prepare Construction Manual                      May 1999
By the Bank
Review draft ICR                                 May 1999



- 44 -                   Appendix B
CHINA
Credit 2307-CHA
Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction Program
AIDE-MEMOIRE NO. 5A
FINAL
22 December 1998
LIST OF PERSONS MET
Yunnan Provincial Government
Mr Niu Shao Yao, Vice Governor
Yunnan Provincial Construction Commission
Mr Shi Xiao Ce, Senior Architect, Director of YERPO and Vice-Director of
Yunnan Construction Commission
Mr. Shao Jianguo, Vice Director; Deputy Chief of the Project Office, YPCB
Mr Wang Zhiyi, Manager
Yunan Earthquake Reconstruction Project Office
Mr Jiao Jun, Vice Director of YERPO and Senior Engineer
Mr Li Ji, Architect No 3 Construction Office
Yunnan Polytechnic University Research and Design Institute of Architecture and
Engineering
Mr Gong Xin Jian             Engineer
Ms. Xu Hua                   Architect
Mr Xie Jin Feng              Architect
Yunnan Finance Bureau
Ms Sheng Fan                 Project Officer and Translator
Yunnan Urban and Rural planning Design and Research Institute
Mr Gu Qi Wei           Senior Planner and technical Consultant - Chief
Architectural Adviser - Mr. Fu P.......
Yunnan Construction Commission Urban Construction Training Centre
Mr Zhao Zhiyong              Director
Yunnan Horticultural Exposition Bureau
Mr. Guo Fang Ming, Director,
Mr Xia Jianfeng              Director



- 45 -                     Appendix B
Lijiang Prefectural Project Office:
Mr. Luo Xie Jun, Vice Governor of Lijiang Prefecture
Mr. Xie Yi, Vice Commissioner of Lijiang Prefecture
Mr. Nian Jiwei, Chief of the Project Office, Deputy Director of Lijiang
Prefectural Construction Bureau (LPCB)
Mr. He Shangqin, Deputy Chief of the Project Office
Ms. Yang Yulin, Accountant, Project Office
Lijiang County Project Office:
Mr. Sun Jiayi, Deputy County Governor
Mr. Cai Hexi, Chief of the Project Office, Deputy Director of Lijiang County
Planning Commission
Mr. Shi Jinyun, Deputy Chief of Lijiang County Construction Bureau
Li Jiang Educational College
Ms Yang Li Ping, English Teacher and Translator
Mr Huang Bi De, Dean of the English Department and Translator
The Mu Dynasty Research and Construction Team
Mr Huang Naizhen, Director of the Li Jiang Cultural Bureau
Mr Chen Yao Dong, Research Fellow of the Institute of Architectural History and
the China Building Technology Centre
Interpreter:
Mr. Huang Bide, teacher of Lijiang Education College
The People's Government of Dali Bai Ethnic Group Autonomous Prefecture
Mr. Li Ying De, Governor
Mr. Liang xi Yong, Vice-Prefectural Governor
Earthquake Reconstruction Office of Dali Prefecture Urban & Rural Construction
Mr. Wang Yongyu, Project Administrative Engineer
Mr. Yang Ding Lhong, Secretary of the Party Committee
Dali prefectural Project Office:
Mr. Shan Yuming , Chief of the Project Office, Director of Dali Prefectural
Construction and Evironmental Protection Bureau (LPCB)
Mr. Zao Hexin, officer of the Project Office
Heqing County
Mr Hong Shi Jiu, Vice Governor
Mr Yang Jia He, Officer of Project Office
Heqing County Project Office:
Mr. Wang Rongwei, officer of the Project Office



- 46 -                    Appendix B
Heqing Nol Middle School
Mr Li Zhi Kui, Headmaster
Mr Hong Jie Qian, Vice Director
Diqing Autonomous Prefecture
Mr Luo Yong Xiang, Vice Governor
Diqing Prefectural Project Office:
Mr. Luo Yongxiang, Deputy Governor of Diqing Prefecture
Mr Xiao Bang Ma, Vice director
Mr Mu Hong Bin, Clerk
Zhongdian County Project Office:
Mr. Xiao Banma, Chief of the Project Office
Mr. Mu Hongbin, Officer of Project Office



-47 -                     Appendix B
CHINA
Credit 2307-CHA
Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction Program
AIDE-MEMOIRE NO. 5A
FINAL
22 December 1998
Detailed Project Costs and Completed Component Listing
Contained in the Project Files-in English and Chinese



- 48 -                     Appendix B
CHINA
YUNNAN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CULTURAL HERITAGE COMPONENT
AIDE-MEMOIRE NO 5A
FINAL
December 22, 1998
27.   The mission wishes to thank the officials of the Yunnan Provincial Government
(YPG) and the Prefectures and Counties of Lijiang, Dali, Heqing, and Zhong Dian and Di
Qing for their assistance during the days spent in Kunming and the above places. The
mission focussing on a review of those project components of specific cultural
significance was carried out by Mr Donald Hankey, Ms Katrinka Ebbe, Mr Zhang Zhun,
and Mr Curt Carnemark, assisted by Mr Xin Gong Fu between the 18th and 24 " of
November 1998. A list of persons met during the mission is given in Annex 1.
Objectives
28.   Following the field visits of December 1997, and with the substantial completion
of the project due at the end of December 1998, the mission objectives were to:-
a) assess progress made in the rehabilitation, reconstruction and conservation works
to the Mu Dynasty properties;
b) assess the content of the construction manual for the repair and upgrading of
traditional buildings in Dayan City;
c) review planning and construction of project components, in particular the
reconstruction and repair of the various buildings of Dayan and the Heqing No.1
Middle School, as scheduled in the IDA and PRC agreements;
d) assess the effectiveness of administrative, institutional systems and controls
required to deliver the project as planned;
e) hear the opinions of the Yunnan and county teams as to the efficiency and impact
of the project's cultural heritage component; and
f) ensure that the works undertaken represent a sustainable investment and benefit to
the community.
The Mu Dynasty Properties
29.  Impressive progress had been made since the last mission. It was reported to the
mission that there were 3600 people working to complete the project. Some delay had
been incurred through the poor weather in 1998 and care was necessary with the intricate
painting for the works. Completion of most of the complex was expected during the
spring of 1999. It had been found that care had to be taken to restore to the original style
and the work could not easily be researched adequately and carried out in the time
available for buildings of such importance for the future of Lijiang's economy.
30.   The mission noted that the next essential steps were to finalize the detailed plans
for the use and furnishing of the buildings and that these studies were critical for the



- 49 -                     Appendix B
proper installation of services and working environments. Each building must be given an
effective use as noted previously in discussions with the Bank in order to ensure
sustainability, maintenance and conservation, and the use must be supported by modem
services, to ensure the continued effectiveness of the buildings.
31.   The mission noted that the interpretation of the historic sites and the presentation
to the public and to the tourists will be essential for the generation of revenue, tourism
and education, and to give benefit to the local community through increased awareness,
employment and commerce. The appropriate form of presentation would need to be
proved in relation to the expected market and the revenues calculated in relation to the
type and financial status of the visitors. The mission advised that the assessment of
appropriate functions for the buildings and the methods for presentation of the history and
significance to the public needed to be studied and strengthened immediately. The Bank
hereby requests that proposals for these matters are sent to the Bank in Washington as
soon as they can be finalized.
32.   The costs of operation and maintenance had still to be calculated in relation to the
expected staffing, and the intensity and type of use. This in turn must show the
profitability and the need for any permanent subsidy for the operation of the future use.
The market for the future use must be analyzed, and the management staff and their
necessary skills need to be urgently defined, selected and trained. (See Item 5f) of Annex
2 Aide Memoire of December 1997). To carry out the work of items 4, 5 and 6 above,
requires the assistance of experts in archaeology, history, architectural history and design,
tourism, market analysis, economics and finance. It was agreed that a business plan for
the funding, operation and maintenance of the project would be prepared for presentation
to the Bank by April 1999.
33.   It was agreed that the construction detail at the base of the timber columns to all
the buildings could be improved; the present design being used showed lack of protection
against water penetration between the stone bases and the timber; the timber may rot and
decorations fail unless the joints are sealed with a modem flexible polysulfide sealant
applied in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. The mission and the YPG
team noted that in historic buildings it was important to take advantage of modem
construction techniques so long as the historic value is not reduced.
Lijiang Old City
34.   Drainage systems were complete. Toilets were complete and in operation;
maintenance could be improved however, as many were not cleaned regularly, and at risk
of failing to provide an adequate and hygienic service. Earthquake damage to the private
housing was still being repaired and techniques for reinforcing traditional construction
and upgrading the quality of the traditional environments was urgently required. There is
still great danger from fire with the electrical systems using the local standards of
installation; the lack of fire hydrants in the city also gives rise for concern. In time these



- 50 -                    Appendix B
problems must be addressed for the Old City to be a desirable, safe and sustainable place
for tourism, commerce and habitation.
He-Qing No 1 Middle School
35.   Good progress had been made in completing the works, and in addition to the
repair of earthquake damage, the support of additional local funding has added
considerable value and capacity to the school. The works were of good quality but the
mission noted the following important points:-
a)  The restored Confucian Temple will be used for gatherings, exams,
exhibitions. Provision has not as yet been made for the necessary electrical
services, power supply and lighting of the working or exhibition areas and the
fine new roof. The mission advised strongly that the lighting be designed to
shield the light source in order to avoid glare;
b)  The Main Entrance Gate was being constructed off center to the access road.
Careful design of roads and landscaping is required to overcome this problem;
c)  The new toilets for the girls dormitory block are to be sited some 100 meters
from the building, which is insensitive to the needs of teenage girls who
require adequate privacy. The mission suggested that the toilets should be
located near to the dormitory block between the dormitory and the new
classroom block and attached at each floor level. The cleanliness of the toilets
and their maintenance, and the provision of adequate mains drainage will be
essential;
d)  The mission noted that the provision of soil water drainage was still
inadequate for the school site and that the consideration of services needed to
be taken into account earlier in the design process; and
e)  Rainwater pipes to the historic teachers' offices building should be routed
against the structure in the corner courtyards.
Zhong Dian Hospital
36.  In Di Qing County, the Zhong Dian Outpatients clinic was a fine new building;
more attention was now needed to make adjustments to the functional planning to
determine the final location of and any needed adjustments to services, the provision of
hot and cold water, power supply and lighting. These adjustments to services will be
difficult to add/adjust now that the building has been constructed. The mission suggested
that the planning and administrative process for project preparation and design needed to
account better for the future use, the adaptability of that use to anticipate changing market
requirements, and the services required to provide the necessary functional environment.
It was agreed that plans for the functional organisation of the hospital would be sent to
the World Bank in Washington for comment.



- 51 -                    Appendix B
Project Administration
37.   The YERP directors and staff noted the lack of mission time to review design of
projects. The mission took note and requested that in future information should be
presented earlier for the Bank staff to review.
Guidelines for the upgrading of historic environments
38.   Draft Terms of Reference (TOR) for this Study were given to YERP in December
1996 (This remains valid and is given again in the Attachment to this annex). The YERP
responded in October 1997 with a statement and TOR of their own. A further draft TOR
of the manual was available for comment in July 1997 and the Aide Memoire reported
the Bank's conclusions. The final TOR for the manual was reviewed by the Bank in
December 1997and agreement given to the Cost estimates of RMB590,000 for the
production with 100% reimbursement from the project. YERP is hereby requested to
formally confirm the funding and program requirement for the TOR and publications and
the World Bank will assess if the works can be funded out of the project budget or from
other funding sources. YERP are requested to note the comments of the December 1997
Aide-Memoire, but the city of Ningbo and Liaoning Province cannot at this stage be
included in the project.
39.   The mission noted the great potential benefit to the people of Lijiang from the
investment of the Chinese into the repair and improvement to their environment, The
investment has given added value if the management, operation, maintenance and
continuous adjustment to the market and the user requirements is effectively carried out.
There will be long term benefits to the community in education health and tourism.



- 52 -                    Appendix B
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL STUDY INTO
LIJIANG HOUSING
STRENGTHENING AND IMPROVEMENT
Introduction
1.    The IMYERP Program (Credit 2307-CHA) to assist the Province of Yunnan in its
repair of the Damage from the earthquake of 3 February 1996, involves the reconstruction
of the traditional housing of Dayan (Lijiang Old City). The laws issued both pre- and
post-earthquake set out the standards and requirements for planning, design and
construction. Various matters remain however to be resolved, and for the investment into
repair to be in support of sustainable quality of construction and a worthy asset, the
avoidance of future damage as far as possible and the construction of repair which
incorporates the improvement in the environmental planning and construction must be
achieved.
2.    Debate continues on the question of the appropriate relationship between the
traditional earth brick structures at the rear and gable end walls, and the timber framing
which has survived over the centuries through the heavier walls collapsing without
bringing down the timber framing. The latter has often retained adequate flexibility to
resist the shock of earthquakes. There are of course many instances of displacement and
collapse of timber frames, but for the most part evidence suggests that this collapse is
always associated with the collapse of masonry structures. Construction detail has in
some instances not provided a key between components, such as between timber column
and stone base, leading to damage or displacement of the components.
3.    The stability of timber frames is given by well tried systems of jointing and
paneling. But in the conditions of a serious earthquake as has recently occurred this has
proved to be potentially inadequate.
4.    The modem recommendations require the introduction of concrete framing and
brick panels. This is not appropriate for the traditional historic environment of the City of
Dayan, and alternate external construction materials must be used to conserve the
traditional architectural expression of the City. The scope of modem science and
constructional experience must be tapped to assess the potential for discrete and
appropriate strengthening measures.
5.    As a general rule, the properties of the Old City have some electricity, no drainage
or sanitation, poor means of escape in case of fire, no means of fighting fires, some
telephones, a lack of fresh water supply, uninsulated timber panel walls and roofs, and an
absence of heating systems. What systems there are have been installed without adequate
safety and protection and without adequate consideration for the aesthetic and safety
requirements for both the street scene and the interior of the buildings. There is much
good experience that can be used to design methods of upgrading properties in ways
which can be for the enjoyment of the inhabitants. The tourism industry, being seen as a



- 53 -                     Appendix B
principal generator of employment and trade in the future, also requires that the
distribution of services and the provision of safety and adequate access is carried out in
ways that are sensitive to the visual charm and historic quality of the urban and built
environments.
6.    The Ministry of Construction in Beijing is understood to be studying a range of
problems associated with the rehabilitation of buildings in Dayan, but the scope of these
studies is not known as yet. Any study carried out for this project must be complementary
to any other study, and the knowledge thereby gained must be pooled for the benefit of
the City as a whole. The means selected for improving planning and construction must be
within the limits of affordability both for initial capital expenditure and for future
maintenance. Solutions to the problems must therefore be set in the context of the
economic and financial character of the City.
7.    The present reconstruction and rehabilitation within the City is being carried out
without always conforming to the recommendations correctly issued by the Province and
the Prefecture. Not unnaturally the emergency nature of the disaster has required
immediate action by any means possible. There is a problem of communicating
requirements of the law and of design recommendations to the householders who are
often dependant upon their own initiatives but do not read sufficiently to understand the
recommendations that are given. The means of communicating any requirements
becomes an essential consideration in developing a sustainable and controlled urban
environment.
8.    There is a need to develop literature in both written and graphic form that can be
interpreted by the householders and their builders, giving guidance on:-
* construction improvements, and the means of improving safety, thermal and
sound insulation, safety in case of fire, the assurance of the means of escape in
case of fire and the protection of escape routes by the use of non-combustible
materials;
* safety and installation requirements to electrical, water supply, sanitation,
drainage, telephone, television and services giving the typical solution to
concealment of pipes conduits and wiring, the prevention of damage from the
use of equipment to adjacent parts of the building;
* construction of traditional buildings and the use of traditional materials,
decorative and construction detailing, and the means of improving the
earthquake resistance of traditional buildings as found in the City;
. Planning improvements to the traditional layout of rooms to incorporate the
requirements of modem lifestyles.
 planning and design solutions and the environmental requirements for lighting
of streets, electrical, water, drainage, telephone and television services
distribution;
* design limitations for the placing of advertisements within the historic areas (if
not already covered by the legislation)



- 54 -                     Appendix B
9.    The above measures are potentially very useful to the people of the City to help
them know of action that they could take to improve the enjoyment of their properties, to
defend the use and values of traditional properties, and to demonstrate the qualities of the
traditional house over the mass housing solutions of blocks of flats now under
construction in the new parts of the city. The support of the people is important to ensure
maintenance and upgrading of the traditional environment, and the historic environment
is the expression of the traditional minority Naxi culture and the principal lure for tourism
and all its associated trade and economic benefits that are derived from it.
10.  It is likely that most properties would be able to undertake only a part of the
recommended works. The importance of the advice however is to give safety, quality
control, construction and design information to all people concerned.
11.   The following skills are required to carry out the study, to negotiate and adjust the
details of the study in relation to the requirements of the administration of the Province of
Yunnan, the Prefecture and City of Lijiang, and to produce reports and literature that may
be reviewed and adopted by the relevant departments of the administration:-
* architect and urban planner specialized in the design and construction of
traditional Chinese housing; this may be two people depending upon the
availability of skills;
* structural engineer specialized in the design of traditional Chinese houses and a
services engineer skilled in the routing of services in existing buildings; and
* architects and engineers from the administration to work with the appointed
specialists.



- 55 -                    Appendix B
CHINA
YUNNAN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
COMMENTS ON FIELD VISITS
AIDE-MEMOIRE NO 5A
FINAL
December 22, 1998
40.   The mission visited a number of the project sites. Comments on the individual
sites are shown below.
41.   Traditional Chinese Hospital of Lijiang County. Constructed from October, 1996
to May 1997, the hospital has been fully rehabilitated and is provide services to patients.
Located in old city of Dayuan Town, the hospital was built in traditional wooden
structure of Lijiang Naxi style compatible with old city surroundings. The construction
quality is satisfactory, but some improvement is needed in the longer term, such as the
stairs are too steep for patients
42.   Water Supply Factory of Lijiang County. Not visited on this mission. Work is
complete, and the plant is reportedly functioning satisfactorily.
43.   Reconstruction of Drainage Ditch of West Bypass Highway. Rehabilitation of
earthquake damaged conduits were completed in August 1996 by original contractor who
got the works through bidding before earthquake. Procurement documents and SOE
support documents were provided to the mission for review and local bidding procedure
was followed.
44.   Steel Window Manufacture Works. All work is complete, and factory back to full
employment. During a field visit, the mission found that the reconstructed factory
appeared to have expanded since completion of the earthquake reconstruction work, and
seemed to have more capacity than orders.
45.   Other. The mission visited several of the schools supported through the project.
The mission found that workmanship was generally of a high standard, work had been
completed, and the facilities were being fully utilized.
46.   Housing of Old Town Residents. This project-supported portion of the work had
been completed some while back. However, even though project funds were not
sufficient to meet all reconstruction costs (it has been estimated that the Credit would
have provided some 25 to 35 % of the costs, the mission found that the majority of the
houses damaged had been repaired by this time, and possibly most houses had even been
improved; the main improvements were that many of the walls which were formerly of
unbaked mud brick(with little resistance to earthquake damage) were now of sand/cement
block or burnt brick, and also it is understood had been constructed with reinforcing,
which would improve the earthquake resistance.



- 56 -                     Appendix B
47.   Mu Family House. Work in this area is very advanced, and substantially
complete. Details and recommendations are set out in Annex 3.
48.   Wastewater and Drainage System Upgrading. Work on upgrading of the collector
system is substantially complete; the main item still to be completed is the treatment
plant. The mission found that additional attention was required in order to improve the
quality of construction. It was reported that the plant would be substantially complete by
the end of 1998.
49.   Lijiang Prefectural Hospital. As the largest pieces of contract, the procurement
documents of the hospital has passed Banks prior review. Mission has requested that
alternative foundations be considered, including considering constructing a basement on
raft, instead of individual pillars in present design. Particular attention to be given to
considering earthquake conditions prevailing in Lijiang. These alternatives to be given
consideration by PMO and concerned design Bureau. Bank to be advised.
50.   Education College of Lijiang Prefecture. The Student Dormitory facilities and the
main Teaching Building have been completed, equipment installed, and the facilities are
fully operational. School management appears to be of a high quality, and the academic
results achieved by the pupils were reported to have improved significantly, as a result of
the reconstruction of the facilities; even though the facilities were essentially
reconstructed, in line with project goals and procedures for emergency operations, the
opportunity was taken to improve while reconstruction gave a chance to innovate. This
has according to the local authorities achieved academic results far greater than those
which could have been achieved previously.
51.   Other Public Infrastructure and support to Industrial Enterprises. The mission
visited several of the other industrial facilities which had been reconstructed with project
support. Work was substantially complete, and the facilities functional in most cases; in
some sub projects, additional counterpart funds were still needed in order to complete the
works to full functionality. YPG assured the mission that these funds would be provided.



- 57 -                Appendix B
CHINA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2307-CHA)
YUNNAN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM (YERP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
(April 13 to 18, 1999)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
DRAFT
June 24, 1999
Contents
Main Text
Annex I    List of Persons Met



- 58 -                    Appendix B
Main Text
1.    A World Bank Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission visited Lijiang
and Kunming, Yunnan during April 13 to 18, 1999 to discuss the Yunnan component of
draft ICR for the Inner Mongolia/Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction Program
(IMYERP) with the project officials from Provincial, Prefecture and County Project
offices. The mission comprised Messrs. Terry Hall and Yang Dawei.
2.    The mission expresses its appreciation for the support and hospitality received
from the officials of Yunnan Provincial Government (YPG), Lijiang Prefecture
Governments and the project offices of Yunnan Province, Lijiang Prefecture, Lijiang
County and Heqing County.
3.    The mission discussed the draft ICR with the provincial project office and
provided the draft of the ICR to the provincial project office on April 14, 1999. the
mission has also received the Borrower's contribution to the completion report in Chinese
from the project office. The mission received comments, issues, experiences and lessons
earned on the project by various project offices and executing agencies of Lijiang county
(in the evening of April 14), Lijiang Prefecture (in the morning of April 15) and Heqing
County (in the afternoon of April 15). The people met by the mission were listed in the
Annex 1 of this Aide-Memoire. The mission findings will be incorporated into the ICR.
This Aide-Memoire is subject to review and confinnation by World Bank Management in
Washington.
Completion Status
4.    The implementation of the project was completed by the end of 1998. The
mission found that the IDA Credit was fully withdrawn on December 31, 1998.
Actions to be taken and Next Steps
5.    Based on the various discussions and meetings with the concerned project
agencies, the mission draws attention to the following steps which should be addressed in
order to submit the Project Completion Report to the Bank Management before June 30,
1999:
(a)   Final Audit Report and audited financial statement for fiscal year 1998
shall be provided by Yunnan Provincial Government (YPG) for the Bank's review before
June 30, 1999.
(b)   The comments on the draft ICR, and English version of the Borrower's
contribution to ICR shall be provided by YPG to the Bank by the end of April, 1999.



-59 -                      Appendix B
CHINA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2307-CHA)
Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction Program
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
(April 13 to 18,1999)
ANNEX 1. LIST OF PERSONS MET
Persons from Province:
Mr. Shi Xiaoze:   Deputy Director of provincial construction bureau
Mr. Shao Jianguo:   Division Chief of Planning and Finance Division, provincial
construction bureau
Ms. Chuan Zhiming: Staff member of provincial Project Office
Persons from Lijiang Prefecture:
Mr. Shi Weiqing    Dep. Governor of Lijiang Prefecture Government
Mr. He Shangqing   Lijiang Prefecture Project Office
Ms. Yang Yulin    Lijiang Prefecture Project Office
Ms. He Jiafeng    Lijiang Prefecture Project Office
Mr. He Gang       Lijiang Prefecture Hospital
Mr. Wang Guang    Lijiang Prefecture Education College
Mr. He Shangyou   Lijiang Prefecture Education College
Mr. He Wenxin     Lijiang Prefecture Ethnic Teacher Training School
Mr. He Kechun     Lijiang Prefecture Ethnic Teacher Training School
Mr. Tang Weixue   Lijiang Prefecture Finance Bureau
Mr. He Pinwen     Lijiang Prefecture Power Company
Mr. Liu Daoxiang   Lijiang Prefecture Middle School
Mr. Zhu Feng      Lijiang Prefecture Education Commission
Mr. Li Chengwei    Lijiang Prefecture Experiment School
Mr. Li Xinming    Lijiang Prefecture Health School
Ms. Zhuang Lianmei Lijiang Prefecture Window Frame Factory
Mr. Nian Jiansheng  Lijiang Prefecture Window Frame Factory
Persons from Lijiang County:
Mr. Li Baotang    Dep. Governor of Lijiang County Government
Mr. Wang Chunhong Lijiang County Project Office
Mr. Xi Liwu       Lijiang County Project Office
Mr. He Lisheng    Lijiang County Traditional Chinese Medical Hospital
Mr. He Yixin      Lijiang County Education Bureau
Mr. Wu Lishen     Lijiang County Urban Construction Bureau



- 60 -                    Appendix B
Mr. Su Jingfa     Lijiang County Estate Management Station
Mr. Duang Wunhau  Lijiang County Finance Bureau
Mr. Yang Yugen    Lijiang County Water Supply Plant
Ms. Ma Chixian    Lijiang County Women and Children Hospital
Mr. Chen Yiaojun   Lijiang County Paper Mill
Ms. Huang Meixian Lijiang County Food Stuff Factory



- 61 -             Appendix C
APPENDIX C: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR-
INNER MONGOLIA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
INNER MONGOLIA EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY & RECONSTRUCTION
PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2307-CHA)
January 10, 1999
CHINA INNER MONGOLIA EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY & RECONSTRUCTION
OFFICE
AVERAGE RATE VALUE OF DIFFERENT YEARS
1996 lUSD=8.30YUAN  1SDR(SPECIAL DRAWINGRIGHT)=1.4393USD
1997 1USD=8.30YUAN  1SDR=1.3682USD
1998 1USD=8.29YUAN  ISDR=1.3595USD



- 62 -                    Appendix C
CONTENT
I. PROJECT TARGET---------------------------------------------------------------------------(4)
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND-------------------------------------------------------------------(5)
III. PROJECT ACTUAL EFFECT----------------------------------------------------------(6)
IV. PROJECT APPRAISAL----------------------------------------------------------------------(8)
V. MAIN ELEMENTS AFFECTING PROJECT--------------------------------------------(11)
VI. ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE WORLD BANK-------------------------------------------(12)
VII. ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE LOANER--------------------------------------------------(13)
VIII. PROJECT FUTURE OPERATION------------------------------------------------------(14)
IX. PROJECT MAIN EXPERIENCE----------------------------------------------------------(15)
APPENDIX
TABLE I: PROJECT APPRAISAL COLLECTON TABLE
TABLE II: PROJECT TIME TABLE
TABLE III: PROJECT RENDER TABLE
TABLE IV: PROJECT INVESTMENT COLLECTION TABLE
TABLE V: WORLD BANK INVOLVED GROUPS TABLE
I. PROJECT TARGET
1.1   At 11:32 on May 3, 1996 a severe earthquake of 6.4 degree happened in BaoTou,
Inner Mongolia, China, where most industries and population of Inner Mongolia are
concentrated. The epicenter is only 10 km away from the city. The highest earthquake
intensity is 8 degree. 6 counties and districts in Baotou city, YiKeZhao league and
BaYanNaoEr league were affected. This earthquake has the characteristics of no signs,
high degree and causing severe losses. It is another seriously destructive earthquake
happened in a city with over one million people following the TangShan Big Earthquake
of China. BaoTou is the largest industrial city of Inner Mongolia. The banners and
counties around it are dry and poor, mainly engaged in agriculture and animal husbandry
and populated by minority nationalities. The earthquake caused serious inner destruction
to different buildings, underground structures and industrial facilities. It laid
unpredictable problems and caused severe losses to the life and work of fanners and
herdsmen. Through careful investigation and collective appraisal made by the relevant
national and provincial departments, 580 thousand households and 2.1 million people
suffered from the earthquake. 26 people died and 454 people injured. The direct
economic losses reached 5.215 billion Yuan.
1.2  In order to do the work of anti-earthquake and disaster-relieving, recovering the
production and reconstructing homeland well, the concerned national departments, other
provinces and the international community have given great support and help. Inner
Mongolia government made overall plan for the reconstruction work, sticking to the



- 63 -                    Appendix C
principle of mainly self-reliance combining international and domestic aids. It was
planned that all the reconstruction work would be finished step by step in two years.
1.3  Inner Mongolia is a minority nationality autonomous region. Her economy is still
lagging behind and the financial strength is still weak. Therefore, it is difficult for her to
finish all the reconstruction work only by herself. As a result, the aids of the World Bank
( hereinafter referred as WB ) is needed.
1.4   The aids of the WB is mainly for solving the problems of housing, education,
hygienic facilities and the repair and reconstruction of the urban public facilities for the
people in disaster-stricken areas, so that the social order of living, working, educating and
medical care can be normalized and the economy in these areas can be continuously
developed.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.1   This project is the urgent aiding project utilizing the largest foreign investment
and possessing the largest scale in the post-earthquake reconstruction work in BaoTou.
2.2   This project is comprised of 6 sub-projects of education, hygiene, public facilities,
housing, earthquake observation and technical aids and is arranged to be implemented in
6 counties of 3 leagues and cities.
2.3   From June 25 to 29, 1996, the WB Investigation Group headed by Mr. Daud
Ahmad made an on-the-spot investigation to Inner Mongolia. From July 18 to 21, 1996,
through technical negotiations between the WB and the China Finance Ministry and the
Inner Mongolia Delegation, a loan of 25 million USD is officially approved to be
granted.
2.4   The total investment of the project is 37.0914 million USD. Among this amount
the International Development Association (IDA) granted 17.37 million SDR, equal to 25
million USD and accounting for 67.4% of the total contract amount.
2.5   The IDA credit is to be trans-granted from the Finance Ministry to the Inner
Mongolia People's Government. The annual rate is 2%. The promising fee annual rate is
0.5%. The returning period is 15 years, including 5 years of grace period.
2.6   Project Implementation. On December 16, 1991, the WB and the Chinese
Government signed the Development Credit Agreement and it shall become valid from
October 16, 1996.



- 64 -                    Appendix C
2.7   Project Mid-term Adjustment
2.7.1 IDA Credit Loan Re-allocation. In October of 1997 and June 1998 the WB
Delegation twice came to Inner Mongolia and confirmed the project list of supplementing
3.747 million SDR, so that the IDA credit loan finally reached 21.117 SDR.
III. PROJECT ACTUAL EFFECT
3.1   Project Implementation Progress
3.1.1  Project Total Investment. The actual completed investment is 43.9663 million
USD which is 98.7% of the actual contract. Among this: IDA credit 30.0587 million
USD, accounting for 99.7%; the domestic investment equal to 13.9076 million USD,
accounting for 96.6%. For details, see Appendix 4.
3.1.2 The project was started from August 1996 and finished on Dec. 31, 1998. The
construction plan of the project was basically finished and the implementation was fine.
3.1.3 IDA Credit Payment: The actual payment is 2,013,2 million SDR ( equal to 27.5
mnillion USD ) and the last payment was on ,1999. For details, see Appendix 3.
3.1.4 Purchase: The bidding and purchasing of the project were basically carried out as
the WB required. The contractor of the BaoTou Gas Project, Bao Tou No. 2 Hospital and
Bao Tou No. 4 Hospital was selected through competitive bidding. The housing
construction in rural areas and some electrical facilities maintenance projects were self-
managed. The contractor of the rural housing construction in Yi League was selected
through inquiry bidding. The rest projects all adopted the method of inquiry bidding and
purchasing through careful comparison. The documents and the process of the bidding
and purchasing basically conform to the standard.
3.2   Project Actual Effect
3.2.1 Education
A. The reconstruction and maintenance of 22 rural and urban secondary professional
schools, special educational centers, middle and primary schools and kindergartens were
finished.
B. The reconstruction and maintenance of 75 rural middle and primary schools were
finished.
3.2.2 Hygiene
A. 15 urban hospitals and epidemic prevention stations were finished.



- 65 -                    Appendix C
B. 24 rural hygienic stations were finished.
3.2.3 Housing
A. 3 urban residential buildings with the area of 12,562 m2 were finished and 225 quake-
stricken households moved into the new home by the end of 1996.
B. 191,481 m2 of rural housing were finished.
3.2.4 Public facilities
A. The Bao Tou Gas Project was finished. A new dry storage tank of 50,000 m3 was
constructed. The former wet storage tank of 54,000 m3 and the pipes and other strike-
destroyed facilities were repaired.
B. The boiler room and equipment purchase of the BaoTou Qing Shan Heating Plant
were finished.
C. The civil work and equipment repair of the Bao Tou No. I Power Plant, Bao Tou
Power Supply Bureau, Ba League Electric Administration Bureau and Yi League Electric
Administration Bureau were finished.
D. The water supply project of DaLaTe Banner was finished.
3.2.5 Seismic Observation. The work of changing part of the observation equipments
and meters and repair part of working and residential houses in 8 seismic observation
stations were finished.
3.2.6 Technical Aids. The training of the finance and purchase management of the
project and the office equipment purchase were finished.
IV. PROJECT APPRAISAL
4.1   This project is the aiding project utilizing the biggest WB loan and occupying the
largest scale in the post-earthquake reconstruction work of Inner Mongolia. It covers the
fields of education, hygiene, public facilities, housing, seismic observation and technical
aids, etc., involving 6 counties in 3 leagues and cities. It greatly helped the quake-stricken
area to formalize its working and living order, improved people's living, educating and
medical conditions and strengthened the infrastructure construction. This project will be
very important in keeping social stability and impeding economic development. It show
fairly good social and economic benefit.
4.2   The implementation of the education project: The reconstruction of schools in an
area of 125,561 m was finished and large amount of teaching facilities were purchased.



- 66 -                    Appendix C
This guaranteed children's study in school, greatly bettered the educational condition in
these areas and helped to raise the educational level.
4.3   The implementation of the hygienic project: The hospitals in the quake-stricken
area were repaired and the medical condition was greatly improved. Number of patients
and the income of the hospital were increased. It helped to increase the medical capability
and develop the hygienic undertaking, especially the medical condition in the local rural
area. It is more convenient for farners and herdsmen to seek medical advice.
4.4   The implementation of the housing project: Homeless quake-stricken people
moved into the new houses and are able to lead a stable life. New villages were
constructed with an entirely new look. It guides and drags the development of the local
countryside construction.
4.5   The implementation of the public facilities project: The hidden trouble in the Bao
Tou gas, heating and Da La Te banner hot water system was completely abolished. It
assured the safe utilization of gas for 120,000 people of 30,000 households in Bao Tou
Qing Shan District. It guaranteed the winter warming of 11,800 households in Bao Tou
and the water supply for the residents in Shu Lin Zhao County of Da La Te Banner and
gained a good social effect.
4.6   The implementation of the seismic observation project: It not only normalized the
observation and broadcasting work of the harmed observation stations, but also improved
the observation, working and living conditions of these stations. The purchasing of the
digital seismic meter and the forewarning meter and the construction of the information
net system greatly improved the seismic observation ability and the seismic analysis and
broadcasting level and will surely play a better role in the work of anti-quake and
disaster-relieve.
4.7   The implementation of the technical aids project: It guaranteed an effective
carrying-out of the work of the Earthquake Project Office and a smooth going-on of the
WB-loaned recovery and reconstruction work.
4.8   Through the implementation of this project we gained many beneficial experience
in improving and increasing investment and project management. What's more, a group
of project management officials of utilizing WB loan is trained.
4.9   Comparison of with this project and without this project: If there were no this
project, the post-disaster construction work may still have achieved some progress.
However, compared with having this project, the speed and effect of the reconstruction
work would be much worse and the people's life, social production and economic
development would be seriously limited. This project not only made the destroyed
schools, hospitals, houses and public facilities quickly reconstructed, but also greatly
improved the condition in these systems so that the potential of development was
deepened.



- 67 -                     Appendix C
V. MAIN ELEMENTS AFFECTING PROJECT
5.1   Governments at different levels have attached great attention to this project and
strengthened the leading and management of it which made this project a success.
Governments at the provincial, city and county levels have all listed it into the VIP
agenda. They made special researching and arrangement about this project and
determined special officials to be in charge of it. They all set up the Project Office to be
specially responsible for managing this project.
5.2   All departments concerned closely coordinated with each other which made this
project smoothly carried out. The Planning & Developing Commission, the Finance
Departmnent, the Earthquake Bureau, the Electric Admninistration Bureau, the Education,
Civil Construction, Hygienic and Audit Departments, etc. have all been involved in this
project. During the implementation of this project the officials and specialists of these
Departmnents all attend into this project actively and cooperated with each other closely.
The Education Department, the Electric Administration Bureau and the Earthquake
Bureau have set up Project Offices and determined special persons to be responsible
which guaranteed a smooth implementation of this project.
5.3   All project construction units are responsible and hardworking which laid a solid
foundation for the smooth implementation of the project. During the implementation, all
these units have determined special officials to be responsible for the project and saved
no effort to finish it.
5.4   Due to the changing of the currency rate, an insufficiency of some project
investment was resulted in, which inserted heavy pressure onto the project units.
VI. ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE WORLD BANK
6.1   The WB has given great support to the project in supplying capital, information,
technical guide and management, etc.. The governments and project units at different
levels and residents in the quake-stricken area were very satisfied with the WB in
selecting, preparing, guiding and supervising of the project and would like to extend the
most sincere appreciation to the WB.
6.2   The WB did very well in implementing this project. During the rectification of the
project, the WB sent Delegations both headed by Mr. Daud Ahmad in June and July of
1996 to rectify the projects.
6.3   After the project was started, each time when the WB Delegation camne to Inner
Mongolia, regardless of the tiredness, the WE officials all saved no effort in their work
and were extremely careful and responsible and showed very good qualifications and
high efficiency. We are deeply impressed by their high working-spirit and the warm
feelings that they hold toward people in quake-stricken areas. Inner Mongolia will never
forget the contributions that they made to this project.



- 68 -                    Appendix C
6.4   The officials from the WB Mr. Geoffrey Read, Mr. Bao TaiLi, Ms. Austin Hu,
Mr. Daud Ahmad, Mr. Patrick McCarthy, Mr. Ken Rippin, Mr. Yang DaWei, Ms. Yang
XiaoHong, Mr. Zong Yan, Mr. Chen Xin, Mr. Chu JunXue and other official have kept a
close and harmonious relation with the Project Office and other departments. They gave
great support to the Project Office which is an important reason for the success of the
project.
6.5   Since 1996 the WB have sent 5 groups of 21 officials to help and guide the
project in Inner Mongolia.
VII. ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE LOANER
7.1   Under the leadership of the Inner Mongolia Governmnent, the Inner Mongolia
World Bank Anti-quake & Disaster-Relief Loan Project Leading Group was set up. This
Group is responsible for leading and coordinating in this project. A vice-governor was
appointed to be the chief of this Group. The leading officials of the General Office of
Inner Mongolia People's Government, Planning & Developing Commission, Finance,
Construction, Electric Administration, Education and other Departments and officials
from the Government of Bao Tou City, Yi League and Ba League are the members of the
Group. Under the Leading Group there exists the WB Loan Project Office. A vice-general
secretary of the Inner Mongolia People's Government was appointed to be the director of
the Office. A vice-general director of the Inner Mongolia Planning & Developing
Commission and a vice-general director of the Inner Mongolia Finance Department were
appointed to be the vice-director of the Office. The Project Office have selected some
engineers, technical and financial specialists to be in charge of the implementing,
managing, training, supervising, observing, coordinating and serving of the project.
7.2   The Inner Mongolia Govermnent is responsible for bearing and transferring the
IDA credit. The Foreign Economy Division of the Inner Mongolia Finance Department is
responsible for the financial management of the project, including drawing, rendering,
reclamation and repay, and supervising the implementation situation in the leagues, cities
and counties concerned.
7.3   The Inner Mongolia Audit Department is responsible for auditing this project.
Through auditing problems were found without delay and suggestions were raised which
guaranteed the smooth implementation of the project. Audit reports were supplied to the
WB each year.
7.4   The Project Offices at the league ( city ) and county levels are responsible for
management of the project all through its implementation under the direction of the Inner
Mongolia Project Office and local Government Project Leading Group. The Project
Offices in Electric Administration Bureau and Earthquake Bureau are responsible for the
management of the project belong to them all though its implementation.



- 69 -                     Appendix C
7.5   The project construction units selected the designing units and constructing units
through bidding as was required by the WB and the domestic infrastructure management
regulations.
7.6   The domestic finance of all the sub-projects was raised by the Finance
Departments of different levels and enterprises, units and farmers ( Some of them do
labor with the same value of the fund instead of paying the cash ) concerned. Bidding
purchase was used in WB loan and repay and render were all done as the W13 required.
7.7   The bidding purchase of goods: The construction units put forward a purchase list
according to the bidding design documents to the Finance Departments of the same level
to be rectified. After all the lists were rectified the Inner Mongolia Project Office revised
and rectified them and raised them to the Inner Mongolia Finance Department for
rectification. The Project Office is responsible for bidding.
7.8   The Project Offices at different levels are responsible for supervising the progress
of the project. Each quarter of the year a completion table was applied to the upper-
leveled Project Offices till the Inner Mongolia Project Office. Each quarter of the year the
Inner Mongolia Project Office applied a completion table to the WB. That the Office
frequently communicated with the WB for guidance and support is an important
guarantee for a smooth implementation of the project.
VIII. PROJECT FUTURE OPERATION
8.1   After the project was turned over to the departments responsible for the work the
Project Offices at all levels would be removed. The Foreign Economy Division ( sector )
of Planning & Developing Commissions and Finance Departments at different levels will
be responsible for operating and supervising the project, urging the repay and render of
the WB loan and coordinating problems occurred during the operation.
8.2   Governments at different levels will take actions to strengthen the repay ability of
different project units and to guarantee a timely and sufficient repay to the WB.
IX. PROJECT MAIN EXPERIENCE
9.1   That the governments at different levels paid great attention to the project is the
key to the success of the project. They have been giving care and support to the project
and solved problems without delay.
9.2   That the close cooperation between all departments concerned and the positive
efforts of all project units are the foundation of the success of the project.
9.3   The help from the WB and the effective management of all the Project Offices at
different levels is the key guarantee to the success of the project.



- 70 -                Appendix C
TABLE I. PROJECT APPRAISAL COLLECTION TABLE
A.TARGET REALIZATION        ALMOST  PARTIALLY   NOT       NOT
REALIZED  REALIZED  REALIZED PRACTICAL
MACRO-POLICY
DEPARMENT POLICY                              _
FINANCIAL TARGET
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT            /
TARGET IN KIND
RELIEVING POVERTY 
CARE ABOUT WOMEN
OT'HER SOCIAL TARGET   
ENVIRONMENTAL TARGET
STATE-OWNED DEPARTMENT
MANAGEMENT
PRIVATE-OWNED DEPARTMENT
MANAGEMENT
OTHERS
B. PROJECT ENDURENCE       POSSIBLE    NOT    NOT SURE
POSSIBLE
C. WB ACHIEVEMENT         EXCELLENCE   GOOD     BAD
PROJECT SELECTION         _                   ___  ____
PREPARE FOR AIDING                  ____
APPRAISAL                            __
SUPERVISATION __I_ ___ __
D.LOANER ACHIEVEMENT      EXCELLENCE   GOOD     BAD
PREPARATION                   /
IMPLEMENTATION/
SITUATION OF ABIDING BY THE   /
CONTRACT
FUTURE OPERATION              /
E. APPRAISAL RESULT       EXCELLENCE   GOOD     BAD
V I_     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _



- 71 -                Appendix C
TABLE II.
PROJECT TIME TABLE
STEPS IN THE PROJECT  PLANNED DATE        ACTUAL DATE/FINAL
APPRAISAL
PROJECT SELECTION
PEEPARATION
PRE-APPRAISAL
APPRAISAL
POST-APPRAISAL
PUT FORWAD TO BOARD
NEGOCIATION          1996.7               1996.7.18-7.21
SIGNING THE CONTRACT  1996.10.16
START TO BE EFFECTIVE 1996. 10
PROJECT COMPLETION  1998.12
CLOSING ACCOUNT      1998.12
TABLE 3
PROJECT RENDER TABLE
USD
TIME                            1997      1998       1999
APPRAISAL
ACTUAL                          20,785    6,715
MILLION   MILLION
ACTUALLY TO BE APPRAISED  
FINAL RENDER DATE      X X_L_X



- 72 -                     Appendix C
TABLE 4
PROJECT INVESTMENT COLLECTION TABLE
PROJECT         APPRAISAL            COMPLETION      COMPLETION ACCOUNTING
FOR APPRAISAL %
DOMESTIC FOREIGN       DI    Fl       T      DI     Fl     T
INVEST- INVEST- TOTAL
MENT (DI) MENT (Fl) (T)
EDUCATION                           1,273.64 2,697.17  1,316.16
HYGIENE                              263.19  658.11   921.3
HOUSING                              254.76   567.7  822.46
PUBLIC FACILITY                      436.66    865  1,301.66
EARTHQUAKE                             4.3    20   24.3
OBSERVATION
TECHNICAL AIDS                         2.85    7.9  10.75 s
PROJECT TOTAL                       1,390.76 3,005.87 4,396.63
COST
TABLE 5.
WB INVOLVED GROUPS TABLE
NO.   TIME             HEAD          NUMBER OF    WORK CONTENT
MEMBERS
1    96.6.25-30   Mr. Daud Ahmad   7                Project investigation
2    96.7.26-31   Mr. Daud Ahmad   3                Project starting
3    97.2.23-27   Mr. Ken Rippin    3               Checking the project
4    97.10.27-30  Mr. Geoffrey Read  5              Checking the project
5    98.6.14-16   Mr. Ken Rippin    3               Checking the project



- 73 -               Appendix D
APPENDIX D: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR-
YUNNAN
CHINA
LIJIANG, YUNNAN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2307 -- CHA
OCT. 16, 1996 -- DEC. 12,1998
COMPLETION REPORT
LIJIANG, YUNNAN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECTOFFICE
MARCH 25, 1999
CONTENTS
1.  PROJECT OBJECT
2.   PROJECT BACKGROUND
3.   THE FACE EFFECT OF THE PROJECT
4.   EVALUATION ON PROJECT IMPECTION
5.   MAIN FACT TO IMPACT THE PROJECT
6.  PROJEC CONTINUITY
7.   WB'S ACHIEVEMENTS
8.   BORROW'S ACHIEVEMENTS
9.  PROJECT EVALUATION
10.  PROJECT FUTUTE OPERATION
11.  MAIN EXPERANCE AND LESSON OF PROJECT
12.  ATTACHMENT
12.1  THE SUM OF PROJECT EVALUATION
12.2 PROJECT SCHEDULE
12.3 PROJECT PAYMENT
12.4 PROJECT PUECHASING
12.5 THE SUM OF PROJECT INVESTMENT
12.6 PROJECT FINANCING
12.7 COMMISSION OF WB
Average exchange rate of each year
1996 SDR1.00=US$1.44 US$1.00=RMB8.30 YUAN
1997 SDR1.00=US$1.36 US$1.00=RMB8.30 YUAN
1998 SDR1.00=US$1.33 US$1.00=RMB8.29 YUAN



- 74 -                    Appendix D
Lijiang, Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Completion Report
1.    Project object
1.1   An earthquake of magnitude 7.2 happened in Lijiang on Feb. 1996. Most
seriously destroyed area of Lijiang area, Dali Prefecture and Diqing prefecture are
mountain area where there are three minorities inhabitant. These areas are backward in
economy. The total GNP in 1995 was RMB 2,000 Yuan per Capital. It only possessed
2/3 of Yunnan province and 1/2 of China. The fiscal revenue of Lijiang area is RMB 106
million Yuan and the expenditure is RMB 31.7 million Yuan. The fiscal revenue of Dali
prefecture is RMB 552 million Yuan and the expenditure is 1155 million Yuan. The
fiscal revenue of Diqing prefecture is RMB 52 million Yuan and the expenditure is 207
million Yuan. The earthquake made a loss more than RMB 4000 million Yuan and
impact on the local social economy development and people's normal living greatly. The
volume of reconstruction is considerable. It's very difficulty to complete only depending
on local fund in a short time. Therefore WB gives help.
1.2   This project is one of the important compositions of Lijiang earthquake
reconstruction project. It focuses on supporting the reconstruction of destroyed area and
impacting on the main field to develop. The reconstruction will conduce to console
people lived in destroyed area, recovery the normal production and people's living,
promote the ability of helping by engaging in production and do spade work for future
development. The direct beneficiary from the project is 100 thousand. Most of them get a
middle income or a low income. Project's social benefit will be outstanding. Having been
completed, the project not only can solve the education and medicine problem for 50
thousand people, and 12 factories' production problem, but also can supply 23 thousand
ton of water for 2500 houses. It can deal with 30 thousand ton of polluted water, and 57
thousand kW of generated energy and a road for 50 km's long. It as well as contributes to
reconstructing on Lijiang old city, Mu family and Jianchuan gem mountain which are of
protected units at county level and province level. It not only protects the unsteady
heritage, but also benefits to the recovery and development of tourism.
2.    Project background
2.1   The project is the Guangdong agricultural development project and Yunnan
Earthquake Reconstruction Project that is helped by IDA loan.
2.2   The project consists of seven classifications (They are education, medicine,
cultural heritage, basic facility, industrial and mining enterprise, electric power and
technology help.), 2 batches, 53 subprojects. The total credit is SDR 29429700 which is
equal to US$40141900.23, RMB 332119005.30 Yuan. It was arranged in four areas
(Lijiang, Heqing, Jianchuan and Zhongdian) which are counties of three prefectures
(Lijiang, Dali, and Diqing).



- 75 -                     Appendix D
2.3   The earlier work of the project is divided into four stages.
2.3.1  Setting up: After being investigated by WB in March, 1996, it was confirmed and
set up.
2.3.2  Preparation: It was prepared by Construction Department of Yunnan Province,
Finance Department of Yunnan Province and Economic Planning Committee of Yunnan
Province.
2.3.3 Evaluation: WB commission evaluated the project officially in May, 1996.
2.3.4 Executing: WB negotiated with the delegation of Chinese government in
Washington, U.S.A and Beijing, China in May, 1996 and in July, 1996. The loan
agreement was signed up by both and went into effect. The expense, which happened
since Feb. 3, 1996, can be rendered an account. The closed date is Dec. 31, 1998 when
the project end.
2.4   According to the project agreement, total investment is RMB 456500 thousand
Yuan. It includes SDR 24240 thousand units from IDA credit, which convert into
US$35000 thousand, possessing 70% of total investment.
2.5  IDA loan is transferred to People's Government of Yunnan Province by finance
bureau. Its annual rate is 2% and promising expense rate is 0.5%. The payment time is 17
years, including 5 years for extending.
2.6   Adjustment in project middle term
2.6.1 During the executing, WB commission gives inspection twice a year. Considering
supplying equipment for reconstruction project in destroyed area, through the
completeness agreement, WB commission increases SDR 518970 thousand units which
convert into US$7000 thousand.
2.6.2 Adjustment of project middle term: Considering the necessity and investment
effect of the reconstruction, we adjust the former evaluation for the investment of three
enterprises after WB agreed.
Heqing agricultural machinery enterprise:
Evaluated investment is RMB 400 thousand Yuan.
Adjusted investment is RMB 1150 thousand Yuan.
Heqing paper mill:
Evaluated investment is RMB 5600 thousand Yuan.
Adjusted investment is RMB 3160 thousand Yuan.



- 76 -                     Appendix D
Heqing manganese mine enterprise:
Evaluated investment is RMB 1100 thousand Yuan.
Adjusted investment is RMB 6890 thousand Yuan.
Total:
Evaluated investment is RMB 11200 thousand Yuan.
Adjusted investment is RMB 11200 thousand Yuan.
2.6.3 During the evaluation, we get a scale on civil works and goods investment.
However, there is some difference between this scale and the fact executing. Having been
agreed by WB, the loan on goods was increased SDR 3293261 units and the loan on the
civil works was decreased SDR 3293261 units. There is no change in the total loan.
2.7   Last investment of project
Investment classified by the use of project
currency unit: RMB 10 thousand Yuan
Project           Project   Total   WB Loan  Domestic Payable
Classification        Unit  Investment             Matched Funds
Education                         19       9455     5907               3548
Medicine                           8       5407     3234               2173
Cultural Heritage                  4       6507     4855               1652
Basic Facility                     6      13546     8476               5070
Industrial and Mining Enterprise  13      10060     6658               3402
Electronic Power                   3       5495     4064               1431
Consulting                                  384       18                366
Project Management fee
Total                             53      50854    33212              17642
Classified by investing area
currency unit: RMB 10 thousand Yuan
Project Classification  Project   Total   WB Loan  Domestic Payable
Unit  Investment            Matched Funds
Lijiang area                      25      30846    20642              10204
Dizhi                             13      11103     7452               3651
Lijiang prefecture                12      19743    13190               6553
Dili prefecture                   17      11736     7169               4567
Heqing county                     11       9753     6000               3753
Jianchuan county                   6       1983     1169                814
Diqing prefecture                 11       8272     5401               2871
Zhouzhi                            3       4897     3387               1510
Zhongdian county                   8       3375     2014               1361
Total                             53      50854    33212              17642



- 77 -                    Appendix D
3.    Project fact effect
3.1   The executing progress: The project agreement is in valid from Oct. 16, 1996. It
defines the expense, which happened from Feb. 3, 1996 (the date that Lijiang earthquake
happened) to the date that the agreement validated, can be rendered an accountant
retroactively. Therefore, from Feb. 3, 1996 to Dec. 31, 1998 (the closed date), the total
working time is tow years and eleven months, 1061 days in all. During the period, all
projects have been completed and the total investment is RMB 508540 thousand Yuan,
possessing 100% in the hole evaluation report. It concludes WB loan RMB 332120
thousand Yuan. Having been checked after they are completed, all the buildings have
been put into use.
3.2   The payment of WB loan: This project gets SDR 29429700 units of WB loan,
converting into US$40141900.23 or RMB 332119005.30 Yuan. From the first payment
on May 7, 1997 to the last payment on Dec. 31, 1998, the replenishment was paid for 12
times in all.
4.    Project evaluation
4.1   The project is the first one to use WB loan to relieve the destroyed area in
Yunnan. It includes three prefectures' (Lijiang, Dali and Diqing) and four counties'
(Lijiang, Heqing, Dali and Zhongdian) education, medicine, basic facilities, cultural
heritage, factories, electronic power and technology help. There are 53 subprojects and
more than 400 works.
4.2   47 middle schools and prime schools are reconstructed. They provide a good
environment for more than 50 thousand teenagers to study. They stimulate teachers' zeal
on teaching and make students study hard. All of these factors promote the quality of
education quickly. This year, students who graduated from each school make a historic
record on the exam for entering a higher school. Many minority students entered the
famous university.
4.3   Having been reconstructed, eight hospitals at prefecture and county level improve
their facilities, promote their ability, decrease the difficulty in sending patients to a far
place to cure and increase the ability of local cure.
4.4   After five factories for supplying water and dealing with polluted water are
reconstructed and the drainage pipeline about 50 km's long is restored, drinking water for
200 thousand people and four county's environment are improved.
4.5   After irrigation and water conservancy, three hydropower station, road about 50
km's long, 12 enterprises are reconstructed, the production in destroyed area and
residents' living condition become convenient.



- 78 -                     Appendix D
4.6   After three cultural heritage are rebuilt, the result is outstanding and gets praise
from local residents. Local residents have a deep impression on WB.
4.7   Purchasing, bidding, designing, working, checking quality, rendering an
accountant, auditing, replenishing, organizing and managing on the project are praised by
WB.
5.    Main fact to impact on the project
5.1   Because the earthquake reconstruction covers more widely than WB loan project
involves, time is tight and the traffic in destroyed area is inconvenient and the climate
effects the weather, also because it is the first time for destroyed area to use WB loan to
recover, the procedure is unknown. All of these factors lead to finishing the project more
slowly.
5.2   Because of the exchange rate, the evaluated loan, which bases on RMB, isn't
replenished thoroughly. The rest of the loan about 3% must be raised by subproject units.
It adds difficulty to each subproject unit.
6 Project continuity
6.1   This project is the earthquake reconstruction project. Every subproject begins to
work one after another and is completed and put into use early or late. Its social efficiency
begins to form. In order to enhance and improve the project results, each project unit will
go on strengthening the later management and make the project having more strong
ability to continuously developing.
6.2  Some of the subprojects' continuously developing lie on the law of state, such as
the law on factory's dealing with the polluted water and supplying using water. Their
charge standard must be checked and confirmed by government. Now government in
each area are designing the relative policy so that these project' results can be
strengthened and improved.
6.3  Because some of the subprojects lack funds for reconstruction, hospital's and
school's civil work is done in order of importance and urgency. These subproject units go
on raising funds for adding equipment. There is more potential for the project to develop.
6.4  The project investing the recovery of cultural heritage not only restores and
protects these unsteady historic and cultural heritage but also considerably improves the
recovery development of local tourism. With the earthquake reconstructing and the
tourism developing, the name of destroyed area will be more and more well-known,
especially the success on applying world cultural heritage for Lijiang old city. There were
1700 thousand people to visit Lijiang in 1998. From now on, more and more people will
visit there with the further improving on environment.



- 79 -                    Appendix D
7.    WB's achievements
7.1   The project involves many prefectures and counties. Work of project is small and
working time is tight. WB commission conquers difficulty such as traffic and gives great
help on fund, information, technology guiding, project managing and operating. They
ensure work to be done successfully. Governments at all levels and people in destroyed
area are satisfied with the work of project selection, preparation, evaluation, supervision
and replenishment which are done by WB.
7.2 WB is excellent on the project confirming, evaluating and supervising during the
working on project. It is not long after earthquake happened in Lijiang, a supervision
commission of WB led by Mr. Read was sent for the project on March 10, 1996. Later a
delegation of WB led by Mr. Read was sent for the project on April 10, 1996 again. Both
of them inspected, evaluated and confirmed the project and made an Evaluation Report
which is regarded as a basement for the work.
7.3   During the working, WB send 2 or 3 supervision commissions every year. There
are 10 supervision commissions, 42 people to come to Yunnan till the project is
completed. The schedule for supervision commission is intense. WB officials start to
work without having a rest as soon as they get off plane. In the day time, they inspect and
talk with officials of project office, staffs and local residents. They look over the
reference and master the practice working. At night, they often hold a meeting to discuss
work late into the night. WB gives a valid guide on technology, economy and
organization in time. Their attitude on work, their management way and their spirit of
working hard give us a deep impression. They set up a model for us to study. The
working on project practices a group of staffs to be good at managing and to be more
ability.
8.    Borrower's achievements
8.1   Under the leading with Yunnan Province Government, Lijiang earthquake
reconstruction project group takes the leader. The vice-governor of Yunnan Province, Niu
Shao Yao is the chairman of this project group. The vice-leader of this group are the main
responders coming from Finance Department of Yunnan province, Construction
Department of Yunnan province, Economic Planning Committee of Yunnan province,
and Civil Administration of Yunnan province. The rest officers of this group come from
Education Committee of Yunnan province, Public Health Department of Yunnan
province, Cultural Department of Yunnan province, Communication Department of
Yunnan province and Hydraulic and Hydropower Department of Yunnan province. The
group also includes the Department of Yunnan province which helps the distressed and
succoring those in peril. The group takes responsibility for major things which run
through the hole project. Under its leading, there is a project office at province level
setting up in Construction Department of Yunnan province, as a permanent organization.
It responses for project's carrying out, management, supervision, inspection,
coordinating, service and association. Lijiang area, Dali prefecture and Diqing prefecture



- 80 -                     Appendix D
and Lijiang county, Heqing county, Jianchuan county and Zhongdian county set up
administrative organ at second level and third level basing on province level. They
provide the reliable guarantee for project to be carried out smoothly.
8.2   As a administration to organize funds, Finance Department of Yunnan province
responses for financial management of the project which includes contracting credit,
transferring credit, rendering on account, replenishing, getting back loan, paying back
loan and arranging the raise of domestic payable matching fund. At the same time, it
supervises and checks the work on project. It also takes part in other management of
project office.
8.3   Economic Planning Committee of Yunnan province responses for the project's
setting up, auditing, and authorizing for feasibility since it is a construction and planning
administration. It also takes part in other management of project office.
8.4   As a construction administration, Construction Department of Yunnan province
responses for the work of project office. Its relative units give an irregular check and
guide on project's planning, designing, constructing, supervising, managing and costing.
It responses for organizing the reconstruction of the whole earthquake area.
8.5   Audit Department of Yunnan province responses for auditing. Through auditing
and advising, it ensures the project is carried out successfully. It sends audit report to WB
every year.
8.6   Project's guide and service are responded by Education Committee of Yunnan
province, Public Health Department of Yunnan province, Hydraulic and Hydropower
Department of Yunnan province, Light industrial Department of Yunnan province and
other relative organizations.
8.7   Every project construction unit has its responders. According to the pOroject's
content, which is discussed and agreed by WB, and the basic domestic construction
management procedure, constructing plan of the project is drawn up and reported and
admitted by county project office level by level after we set up and get the feasibility
researching report, planning license, construction license and the procedures of project's
site selection letter. Designing unit, construction unit and supervision unit on work's
quality is decided by bidding. With the constructing progress, we render an account and
replenish fund to county project office according to the legal receipt. It is checked by
project office at every level and WB.
8.8   WB requires the contract involving the purchasing price over U.S.$200 thousand
and the civil work's price over U.S.$100 thousand can be carried out after WB audited
the bidding document, the evaluating report on bidding and WE gives advice
innegatively. In this project, the civil work of Lijiang hospital (its total investment is
RMB 12400 thousand Yuan), the equipment purchasing of Chongjiang hydropower
station construction (its total investment is RMB 5990 thousand Yuan) and the evaluation



- 81 -                     Appendix D
on enviromnent of the paper mill in Lijiang county and Heqing county are performing the
preauditing procedure strictly according to the requirement of WB.
8.9   Project's purchasing is decided by the simple tending through comparing with
three enterprises. It saves time and cost and promotes the project to be finished in time.
8.10  In order to start the project successfully and ensure the project operation having a
high speed and high efficiency, Finance Department of Yunnan province and the project
office hold class twice for project's starting (August, 1996 and November, 1996). The
class is for training relative officials coming from the unit of Finance Department of
Yunnan province and the project office. It defines the procedure of WB loan project. The
procedure covers the designing way of purchasing plan, the accounting way on the
project and finance system, the procedure of drawing up and the management way on
construction project. Through training, officials' professional level gets the further
improving. The training makes the construction on using WB loan has rules to obey.
8.11  In order to improve the work efficiency according to the advice given by WB
officials, 568 computers are equipped for project offices. Relative officials are trained on
management procedure and get a good result.
8.12  An inspection will be given when the project is completed. Project office requires
every project unit giving an initial check when the project is finished and reported to
project office at county level to be inspected after the reference on project constructing is
collected. Those projects, which aren't checked and accepted by project office, can't
replenish the rest cost of the work. Therefore, the work in each area is put into use
according to the predesigned use after they are checked and accepted successfully. These
work make the investment yield well in time.
9.    Project evaluation
9.1   After these project is done, the main facilities for school, hospital, drainage
system, traffic, cultural heritage, industrial and mining factory and hydropower station get
reconstructed in time. When these facilities are put into use, people's production
condition and living condition in destroyed area are improved and promoted well.
Because of the reconstruction investment, it establishes the basement on applying world
cultural heritage successfully for Lijiang. The historic and cultural value of Lijiang old
city will rise.
9.2   During the work, WB's attitude and ways on working impact all people who are
involved in this project. It establishes the basement on strengthening the firther
cooperation between Yunnan and WB.



-82 -                      Appendix D
10.   Project future operation
10.1  Each subproject unit of this project is charge for this project. The reconstructed
buildings are use as the fixed asset when they are finished and given the unified
management by the subproject unit.
10.2  After they help to finished the project audit and the relative policy is laid down,
the project office at each level ends its work. The loan to each subproject is responded by
itself according to the contract about converting finance into credit. The credit is paid
level by level after it is paid back to finance department.
10.3  Finance Department of Yunnan Province is the highest organ to represent
government of Yunnan province to supervise and make a promise on payment of credit
and pay off the credit.
11.   The main experience and lesson of the project
11.1  There are four pieces of experiences which are worth summing up and using for
reference.
11.1.1 The attention paid by leaders, the closed organization and the means of
management ensured the working on project.
11.1.2 Requiring strictly, organizing actively and working coordinately are the strong
basement of project to be done successfully.
11.1.3 Designing elaborately, comparing with many plans and using in time are essential
to save the construction investment and improve the effect of project.
11.1.4 Catching the opportunity, guiding with typical case and holding competition on
studying are the good ways to accelerate the project's progress.
11.2 There are two pieces of lessons which are worth summing up and using for
reference.
11.2.1 Because of the change of national policy, it's difficult to change their type of
industry after these industrial factories on forest are reconstructed.
11.2.2 The reconstruction time is tight and some of the preparation of the earlier work
isn't careful. All of these factors affect the investment to yield well.



- 83 -                     Appendix D
Attachment 1
(a)   Summary of project evaluation
Object's Realization            Realized    Realized  Unrealized  Unapt
Mainly     Partly
Macroscopic Policy           *
Department Policy                              _
Financial Object
System Department
Material Object
Poverty Decrease
Pay attention to Woman
Other Social Object
Environment Object           *
Public Department's Management
Private Department's Management    _
Others            r
2 Project's Lasting     Possible   Impossible Undefined
3 WB's Achievements       Excellent     Fine        Nil
Selected Project 
Raising Support            *
Evaluation               *
Supervision              *
4Borrow' Achievements      Excellent     Fine       Nil
Preparation              *
Carrying Out                                _
Obey the Agreement
Future Operating
5 Results of Evaluation    Excellent    Fine        Nil



- 84 -                       Appendix D
Attachment 2
(b)   Project Schedule
The procedure in the project period  Planning date    Practice date/ Last estimate
Selected project           Feb. 10, 1996           Feb. 13, 1996
Preparation               Feb. 13, 1996          Feb. 13, 1996
Advanced evaluation
Evaluation              March 29, 1996         March 29, 1996
Later evaluation
Hand in to board of directions    June 25, 1996          June 25, 1996
Negotiation               June 17, 1996          June 17, 1996
Signing                 Oct. 16, 1996          Oct. 16, 1996
Valid                  Oct. 16, 1996          Oct. 16, 1996
Project completing           June 30, 1998          Sep. 30, 1998
Accountant closed            Dec. 31, 1998          Dec. 31, 1998
Attachment 3
(a)    Project Payment
currency unit: US$1
Time                1996       1997        1998 1990             Total
Evaluation       9160000.00  17320000.00  15390000.00  3630000.00  42000000.00
Practice             0.00 26420838.83  13721061.40      0.00  40141900.23
Practice possess evaluation (%)  0        152          89          0          96
The last date for payment       Nov. 15,1997 Dec. 31,1998
Notice: Because the exchange rate changed between US dollar and RMB, the practice
payment in US dollar is below the evaluation.



- 85 -                    Appendix E
APPENDIX E: CULTURAL HERITAGE ASSET
RECONSTRUCTION COMPONENT-IMPLEMENTATION
MISSION REVIEW AND FINDINGS
Response to Natural Disaster
In the early evening of February 3, 1996, an earthquake measuring 7.0 intensity on the
Richter Scale struck Yunnan Province. Three hundred and nine people were killed and
more than 4,000 people were seriously injured in Lijiang, Dali and Di Qing Prefectures.
Some 410,000 housing units collapsed or were severely damaged and rooms in schools,
hospitals and community facilities were destroyed. Buildings of local enterprises as well
as infrastructure such as bridges, power, water and telecommunication lines were severely
damaged. As of mid March over 90 percent of the households (302,000 people) in the
affected areas were in temporary housing and 1,200 schools were operating in tents or
other temporary facilities.
The cost for reconstruction was estimated at $482 million. While this earthquake was not
a major disaster by Chinese or world standards in terms of value of physical assets
destroyed, its effects seriously threatened the regional economy .
The World Bank mobilized a loan via the Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction Program,
in order to assist in getting children back to school, adults back to work and health centers
back in operation. An existing Bank credit was amended to enable $30 million in
reconstruction support, including a $7 million Cultural Heritage component. The purpose
of the loan was to help normalize life and economic activity in a much shorter time than
would be possible with the limited local financial and material resources. It was also to
support the use of cost effective earthquake resilient construction standards for housing,
industry and infrastructure and rehabilitate the culturally and economically valuable
historic assets in the area.
One of the most dramatic of these cultural assets is the old city of Lijiang, which was
designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1997. Lijiang, also know as Dayan Old
Town, is an exceptional ancient city which represents the harmonious fusion of different
cultural traditions and architectural styles and ingenious accommodation to its natural
setting. The town's historic landscape is enhanced by the fact that the Old City is
surrounded by hills which protect and separate it from most 20th century development.
These factors combined with the vibrant ethnic culture of Lijiang's people today make it
a city of immense cultural value.



- 86 -                    Appendix E
Lijiang's Historic Development
There has been a continuous human presence in the area of Lijiang since Paleolithic
times. Situated in the foothills of the Himalayas, Lijiang's location was probably first
chosen for its excellent water supply and proximity to a series of strategic passes which
give access to the plains. It has been a major trading hub since early times when it was a
staging point for caravans on their way to India.
In the late 13' century, the local ruling family established their administrative center at
the foot of Shizi (Lion) Mountain. When the region came under Ming rule in 1382, the
prefect at the time was given the surname Mu, and made a hereditary ruler. This family
controlled the area for the next 340 years until 1723, when the Qing dynasty changed the
policy on local rule and the native prefect was replaced by an imperial appointee. The city
continued to prosper, and over the course of the centuries, it has maintained its position as
the political, economic, educational and cultural center in north-western Yunnan. Today it
is considered an unique and valuable representation of ancient Chinese urban form,
architectural heritage and cultural development.
Lijiang Today
Lijiang Naxi Autonomous County, incorporated in 1961, is located in the northwestern
corner of Yunnan Province, and covers an area of 7,648 square kilometers. Set against the
dramatic backdrop of Yulong Snow Mountain (5,590 m above sea level) Lijiang is
known for its beautiful scenery and moderate climate. The county has a great wealth of
botanical resources. In the 1800s botanists .and more than 600 species of
medicinal plants have been identified in the area.
Liijiang county is home to more than ten distinct national minorities including the Naxi,
Lisu, Pumi, Han, Bai, Yi and Zang. The Naxi are the most populous ethnic group in the
county, accounting for 56 percent or 184,000 people. Today, the population of Lijiang
Old City is 25,500 with 67% (17,000) of Naxi origin. About 30% of the residents are still
engaged in the traditional handicraft occupations and commercial activities such as
making utilitarian items from copper, silver, fur and leather. Local textiles and wine are
also produced.
Urban Landscapes: The Impact of Cultural History and Natural Conditions
Land Use Patterns: Lijiang has not developed according to the same traditional pattern
used by most older Chinese cities on the Central Plains - the strict rectilinear layout of
grid-like streets along a north-south axis. It has neither the rigid street pattern nor the
usual city walls. Instead, its mountainous setting and the presence of numerous streams
have shaped streets and lanes which hug the hills in natural topographical patterns and
take full advantage of the natural water source. Five major streets in L~iiang radiate out
like wheel spokes from the commercial heart of the city, Sifangjie Square.
The Old City in Lijiang has a remarkable water supply system which flows from Black
Dragon Lake at the foot of Xianshan Mountain to the city's north. The Yu River brings
water to the Shuangshi Bridge at the edge of town where it branches into three tributaries,



- 87 -                     Appendix E
the Eastern, Central and Western Rivers. From these rivers the water divides into a
network of streams and channels, providing fresh water to every part of town. The city
also has several "three eyed" wells with separate openings for drinking, cleaning
vegetables and washing. Another feature of the water system, almost unique in the world,
is Dayan's street cleaning mechanism. When a floodgate across the Western River, at the
highest point in town is opened, water flows to the lower Central River, washing the
streets in the process.
Three hundred and fifty-four bridges have been built to accommodate this water supply
system and given rise to Lijiang's nickname, "The City of Bridges." These structures
range in style from elaborate covered bridges and carved stone arches, to simple wooden
planks and stone slabs. Many have evocative names such as the One Hundred Arches
Bridge.
Architectural Style: Lijiang residents have developed their own unique style of housing
in response to local conditions and tradition. While the local architecture incorporates the
fine design traditions of Han houses on the Central Plains, it has been strongly influenced
and adapted by Lijiang's predominant minority group, the Naxi. Over time, local
architectural designs have also incorporated the best ideas of other local minority groups,
especially the Bai and Zhang. Innovative adaptations for such needs as earthquake
resistance, protection from the sun and precautions against flooding are hallmarks of the
local architecture. However, the most striking feature of Lijiang's domestic dwellings is
the lack of uniformity. Rather than following the exact prescriptions used by most
traditional Han houses, the layout of each house in Lijiang is specially adapted to its own
terrain to take full advantage of its site.
Lijiang has always been prone to earthquakes - there have been 10 major earthquakes
recorded since the 15* century. To resist these shocks, Lijiang's basic timber-framed
houses are built to be flexible and the upright timbers are canted slightly inward to
increase stability. Special construction techniques have been developed for the load-
bearing points and joints so as to ensure that the frame survives even if the walls collapse.
The frames are filled in with adobe walls on the ground floor and wooden planks on the
upper floors.
The basic layout of the dwellings is that of the four sided compound with a courtyard in
the center. Open air balconies overlook the central courtyard from the second stories.
Exterior walls are plastered and the roofs consist of dark gray tiles. Houses are usually
two storied, a little more than 7 meters high.
Special attention is paid to the decoration of homes, especially to gateway arches, screen
walls, doors, windows, balconies and roof beams. Most wooden elements such as beams,
pillars, railings and eaves are elaborately carved with representations of lions, musical
instruments, flowers, birds, fish and vignettes from folktales. The courtyards are paved
with colored stones depicting the same images in mosaic patterns.



-88 -                      Appendix E
Living Culture: Today, Lijiang is known, not only for its natural beauty and architectural
interest, but also its vibrant living culture. For example, traditional Naxi orchestras play
for their own enjoyment and perform for tourists almost daily. Women weave and
embroider the traditional clothing which is still widely worn. Shamen of the Dongba, an
ancient animistic religion's still read the ancient scriptures. Although it is not
quantifiable, the inhabitants have an obvious and positive sense of community and strong
identity with their urban environment.
Protection of the Living Culture, Urban Landscape and Natural Environment
Recognizing its unique natural and architectural assets, the city has a long history of
historic and environmental protection. Early in the Qing Dynasty, imperial
announcements decreed "forever compliance" protection measures for Lijiang's
environment and religious buildings. Annals of Lijiang compiled during the Qing
Dynasty contained detailed descriptions and drawings of the town's layout, water system
and architectural styles. The local population itself erected stone tablets at key points both
inside and outside the town, specifying measures to protect the watershed from erosion
and contamination. Local songs and poems with lyrics advocating protection of the Old
City's water resources, streets and landscapes can still be heard today.
(63 ancient historic trees that are protected).
Protect Lijiang which represents the achievements of urban construction in ancient China.
Legislation
Today, laws and regulations at the national, provincial and local level are being used to
protect the historic properties, sites and landscapes of Liijiang.
*  Article 22 of the Constitution of the People's Republic of China sets out, at the
national level, the obligation to protect "scenic places and historical sites, valuable
cultural relics and other important historical and cultural heritage".
*  At the regional level, "The Planning and Management Regulations for Yunnan Cities,
1992" lays out regulations for the management, organization of responsibilities and
rules for the preparation and implementation of urban plans with references to both
new and historic areas.
.  At the municipal level the "Protection and Management Regulations for Lijiang,
Historical and Cultural City of Yunnan Province, 1994" establishes three cultural
heritage protection zones in the Old City. Regulations of varying stringency are laid
out according to the importance of the zones and penalties for non-compliance are
established.
These laws are good in theory, however, experience has shown in other parts of China
that enforcement of the laws and norms has not been adequate to control development.
The pressure brought to bear through the rapid expansion of construction and growing



- 89 -                     Appendix E
liberalization of the market economy is showing that revision and strengthening of the
laws is necessary.
Administration and Management
Administrative and management mechanisms have been designed for protecting the Old
City as well.
* The Municipal Master Plan for Lijiang stipulates that development in the new city
and surrounding area must give full consideration to the space, scale and function of
the Old City. The master plan has been instrumental in routing major new roads
around the Old City and directing new development to the west.
* The Old Town Protection Plan de.veloped in 1988 contains, identifies and defines
regulations for three heritage protection zones. In Zone I there is an absolute ban on
all development and in Zones II and III there are strict controls on height and
appearance of new development. Demolition is allowed only with special permission.
The Protection Plan stipulates that development of the new city should be separated
from that of the old city. It also indicates that functions in the new city should serve
the old one and improve the economics and living standards of the Old City.
 A near term engineering plan has been established to address the city's most pressing
problems. This includes work on a new drainage and sewerage system, installation of
tourist facilities (toilets and landscaping), restoration of several main streets, and
demolition of buildings whose size and appearance is not compatible with the
historical and cultural character of the Old City.
World Bank Project
The earthquake caused significant damage to the old city's buildings, bridges, paving and
service infrastructure. Residents' low income levels and dislocation by the earthquake put
at serious risk the local efforts to restore and maintain this historic and scenic center.
To speed the earthquake recovery, the Bank worked with Lijiang's administration to
address the needs of the displaced and poor population by providing loans and subsidies
for home repair; advice and recommendations on repair and construction techniques such
as reinforcement of walls and foundations. The work focused on improving living
standards while preserving the World Heritage quality of the buildings. Infrastructure
work addressed street lighting, improved sanitary facilities, pollution control and access
for fire fighting and other service vehicles.
Lijiang Old City Property and Infrastructure Reconstruction Program
Damage to Structures
As a first step in project planning a cultural heritage assessment was undertaken in
Lijiang to:
* assess the extent of damage to the historic buildings
* assess action being undertaken to repair the damage;



- 90 -                     Appendix E
* evaluate the appropriateness of these actions in relation to the historic importance
of the heritage, its conservation and potential use; and
*  assess the effectiveness of current administrative, institutional and legal systems
and controls required to deliver the project.
Damage to buildings was severe in some places and lighter in others, depending on the
direction of the earthquake's impact, the quality of construction and amount of support
provided by adjacent buildings. The nature of the damage can be described as:
* Severe damage to internal structures, finishes and wall paneling;
* Displacement of columns on their stone bases;
* Destruction of mud brick walls that were:
inadequately tied to the timber structures;
constructed without adequate reinforcement in the brick courses;
constructed without adequate bonding between inner and outer wall surfaces; or
constructed of poor materials.
* Collapse of entire timber framed structures or their loss of vertical integrity
 Displacement of roofing tile and loss of bond between tiles which compromised their
weatherproofing capacity.
The mission noted that the loose attachment between walling and timber frame
advantageously allowed the frames to shake without collapsing, although the mud brick
walls often did collapse independently, resulting in some injuries and deaths. The
traditional carved and turned joinery also survived the earthquake and is repairable.
The Housing Repair Loan Program
An immediate response put in place to ameliorate the housing problem was a Housing
Repair Loan Program. With World Bank funds the administration made loans available
for a interest rate 2% per year repayable over 15 years with a 5 year grace period. To
reinforce the use of funds for emergency repairs a commitment charge of 1/2 percent per
year on the amount of credit not used in a "timely" manner.
Box with 2 women interviewed?
(Loan Program details coming)
Modernizing Historic Cities
The Need for Repair and Modernization Guidelines
Guidelines for Earthquake Resistance: The emergency nature of the disaster required
immediate action by any means possible. Authorities responded quickly to the emergency
by issuing the "Design and Construction Technical Requirements for Houses in Lijiang
Prefecture" on February 20, 1996. This set of guidelines for repair and reconstruction
explains the reinforcing techniques that should be used to strengthen housing to resist
future earthquakes. Such as vertical and horizontal bamboo reinforcement poles in the
mud brick walls. Since many homeowners in Lijiang do not read sufficiently to



- 91 -                     Appendix E
understand the recommendations that are given it is important, this document would
benefit from editing and simplifying with more diagrams. There should also be more
information on how to consult the administration on construction situations that do not
conform to the models described.
Considering the predictions that China is entering a 10-15 year period of increased
seismic activity, it is gravely important that there be wide dissemination of these
techniques, sufficient training for homeowners and construction workers, effective
supervision and control over work done.
Guidelines for modernization of housing and infrastructure. Another set of guidelines
is urgently needed to assist the residents of Lijiang Old City to upgrade and modernize
their housing in order to:
* Maintain the Old City's current population and way of life while at the same time
promoting a higher standard of living;
* Enable current residents to modernize their housing without compromising their most
significant cultural asset - the urban landscape; and
- Enhance the potential for sustainable tourism that benefits local residents and
provides a meaningful experience for tourists.
To maintain the current population: It is important to note that the Old City's homes
were severely substandard before the earthquake by comparison with what is found in
modern housing in the newer parts of the city. Nearly all buildings lack sanitation
facilities, many lack electricity, there are few cooking facilities that are both modern and
safe and there is no thermal insulation.
There are several possible scenarios for urban areas when these conditions exist and at the
same time the population has expectations for improved standards of living, as is the case
in China today.
* There will be inevitable pressure to alter and improve the old buildings as work
becomes affordable to the existing residents. If improvements are done on an ad hoc
basis by individual families without clear guidelines and requirements for maintaining
the historic nature of the environment, Lijiang's chief cultural asset, its uniformly
historic cityscape, will be lost.
* Residents in the Old City, who have the means, will move to more modern housing in
new Lijiang. This population is likely to be replaced by a. poorer population which
will be, either financially unable or uninterested in maintaining these properties. At
this point decay sets in and the entire physical and social structure of the Old City is
in danger of collapse. As for tourism potential, without the community, the streets and
lanes of the town become an artificial construct with no intrinsic life of their own,
providing visitors with little experience of true historic value.
The adaptability of architectural space is the key to its long term attractiveness to the
user. The challenge is to repair earthquake damaged homes and develop and promote



- 92 -                      Appendix E
options to improve the internal environment of the Old City's buildings while
maintaining the World Heritage quality of their interior and exterior design. Inadequacy
of the houses to support modem life
For instance, most of Lijiang's homes currently have no insulation. Interiors are finished
with paper glued over cracks in the open joints between walls and windows. In an area
where temperatures drop below 100 Centigrade during three or four months of the year,
consideration should be given to acceptable methods of imnproving thermal insulation.
Effective and fire resistant insulation materials are available and could be incorporated
into designs that are compatible with the timber framed and panel systems of the historic
construction. Other issues such as sanitation and safe cooking facilities are much more
difficult to solve. A design study to develop appropriate and cost effective means of
upgrading housing is urgently needed. Once established these guidelines should be
actively publicized and disseminated in the form of easy to understand design guides on
construction and improvements.
To enhance the potential for tourism: These issues apply equally to the broader urban
environment. The present, extremely dense city plan lacks adequate access for fire
fighting and other service vehicles. The service vehicles which are used at the edges of
the Old City damage property and pollute the area. Small scale non-polluting options
need to be identified by city authorities. In addition, there is virtually no street lighting.
The future viability of the city for both residents and visitors requires attention to these
issues of safety, pollution control and access.
Guidelines for housing should include:
*  Construction improvements to increase safety and provide thermal insulation and fire
escape routes;
*  Safety and installation requirements for electrical, water supply, sanitation, drainage
telephone and television service;
*  Suggestions for aesthetic installation and concealment of pipes, conduits and wiring,
and the prevention of damage to the building;
*  Adjustrnents to the traditional layout of rooms to incorporate the requirements of
modern lifestyles;
*  Suggestions for the use of traditional materials and construction techniques.
Guidelines for the exterior urban environment should include:
. Planning and design solutions for installation of street lighting and service
distribution (telephone, electricity) compatible with historic streetscapes.
* Limitations on signage and other advertisements.



- 93 -                    Appendix E
Mu Family Compound
Mr. Huang Naizhen, Mr. Gu Qi Wei
In the late Southern Sung Dynasty (1127-1279), the local ruling family established their
administrative center at the foot of Shizi Mountain in the area that was to become known
as Dayan and later Lijiang. When the region came under Ming rule in 1382, the prefect at
the time was given the honorific surname Mu, and made a hereditary ruler. The next year
the family began building its administrative compound, known today as the Mu Fu or Mu
Mansion.
For the next 340 years each successive Mu prefect enlarged and embellished the
22,000 m2 administrative center. The rectilinear site included administrative, ceremonial,
religious, business, entertainment and domestic structures which progressed up Shizi
Mountain, culminating in an elaborate temple at the top of the hill.
In 1723, the Qing dynasty changed the policy on local rule and the native prefect was
replaced by an imperial appointee. While the family remained influential, over the course
of the next three centuries, the compound gradually deteriorated. Many buildings were
destroyed or damaged by earthquakes and fire. After the formation of the People's
Republic of China, some contemporary buildings were added to the site, existing
buildings were converted to government offices for 500 workers and eighteen families
became permanent residents in the compound. The earthquake of 1996 caused further
damage to the site and local officials decided to use some of the earthquake
reconstruction loan to restore the complex and develop it as a tourist destination.
The World Bank cultural heritage advice on the Mu Fu work emphasized that the historic
value of the reconstruction work depends upon the completeness and reliability of the
evidence for the reconstruction. Reconstructions must be historically correct and
authentic in order to:
*  be historically significant and valuable;
*  meet UNESCO standards for a World Heritage Site; and
*  present the site to the public so that they understand the nature of past lifestyles.
*  carry out valuable archeological work before the site is finished and no longer
available for excavation.
Because of the UNESCO standards for authenticity in World Heritage Sites, it was of
critical importance to ascertain as much information as possible on the compound's
building layout, construction techniques and architectural details and decoration before
any demolition or adaptation work was begun. The means of obtaining this information
include:
*  Measured surveys of existing buildings and site layout;
* Archaeological and ground level investigation;
  Research of historical records including family papers (wills, letters) photographic
collections, municipal surveys, newspapers and other public and private archives;



-94 -                      Appendix E
Recording and archiving of all available evidence to justify the work done.
Preservation Process
The Mu group is doing their own record of the process and keeping a record of the
difficulties they found and how they dealt with them.
Research and Documentation Process
(Lijiang to supply)
One characteristic of Chinese architectural detail and form which greatly assists the
process of research for preservation is the tradition of following strict precedent of design
according the approved style of the period and the rank of the building's owner.
Did Professor Zhang Xin Ling and Mr. Liu Jiang Hui from the Yunnan Provincial
Institute of Archaeological Research work on the site?
Bringing in old trees to duplicate the mature gardens that existed on the site.
Spent one year researching and defining the plan for the site.
Went to the descendants of the Mu family for information and collaboration of details.
Used archaeologists to determine the location and size of buildings.
Implementation Process
Mr. Huang Naizhen reports that he has been coordinating a work force of 3,600 people
(2,800 off-site working in rock quarries and factories and cutting timber) and 1,600 on-
site. The number of workers has been employed in order to meet the time constraints for
the project requirements for disbursement or spending the money.
Labor Force
Ms. Zhang Xiu Qiang is typical of the women who are working at the Mu compound on
site preparation, digging and carrying heavy loads of soil. She lives in a village some
30 km from the site and is paid on a daily basis coming to the site when she is not needed
at home. She usually works seven or eight hours a day and earns 30 Y per day. Wood
carvers have come from Dali, He Qing and Sichuan the most talented usually get about
100 Y per day. Several older men are volunteering at the site carving motivated by the
fact that they are helping to preserve their Naxi heritage. Li Gui Cheng is a painter who
applies the elaborate decoration to the Chinese roofs. He also finishes and paints the
massive columns which hold up the roofs. He leamed his skills from his father and his
Naxi family has been doing this work for several generations. He has been invited to as
far away as Burma to restore columns there.
The team found that determining the correct color schemes for buildings was only part of
their difficulties. They had difficulty actually achieving the colors which were historically
correct. They made at least 20 attempts before in a lucky coincidence a worker removing
paint that had been unsatisfactory only partially removed the pigment. When they painted
again they achieved the desired color and had their process defined.



- 95 -                     Appendix E
Plans for Adaptive Reuse
The plan in November of 1998 included far less adaptive reuse for the buildings than
optimal. The building once known as Ten Thousand Volumes is to be a library again,
housing as much of the original collection as still exists on the second floor. The first
floor will be a reception area and the third floor will be for reading and quiet study. One
pavilion which was once used for formal ceremonial occasions such as "receiving" the
imperial laws will be used for presentations of Naxi traditional music. The other
buildings will be furnished with Ming Dynasty period furniture and hung with the Mu
prefect's portraits and family trees.
Interpretation
Lijiang will train guides to present the site and will have signage at the site as well.
Mr. Huang Naizhen will develop a book and Mr. Gu Qi Wei the chief architect for the
site will prepare a video. Both will be in at least Chinese, English and Japanese.
He Qing, Dali Prefecture, Middle School No. 1
The historic He Qing Middle School No. 1, founded in 1926, suffered typical earthquake
damage to end-gable walls, loss of roof tiling and displacement of walls and columns.
However, within a week of the disaster, the school was functioning with activities moved
into the less damaged buildings and temporary structures.
At appraisal, six buildings were identified for project assistance that were part of the
historic composition and critical to the functions of the present school. These consisted of
a Confucian temple (focal point of the historic area), an exhibition hall, two blocks of
teachers' dormitories, a student dining room and meeting room. During implementation
Bank Group missions reviewed and suggested revisions to the school's site development
plans and gave advice on historic design and construction details. The school reports that
they received Y 13.95 million in Bank Group funding, Y 8 million from the national
matching fund and raised Y 1.50 million themselves for a total project cost of Y 23.45
million.
Jianchuan, Dali Prefecture, Jing Fen Park
Jing Fen Park is a 4.5-hectare area that contains many historic structures dating from the
Yuan, Ming and Qing Dynasties. Over several centuries the park has drawn families with
new babies to two of its most outstanding temples, one dedicated to the scholar Confucius
and the other to the famous military hero, Guan Yu. Here families pray that their children
will excel at either one or both of these endeavors. The park is also a popular site for
informal relaxation and recreation. It is ideal for quiet reading as well as large family
gatherings. Numerous concerts, theater performances and festivals are held here in good
weather. The park has been designated as a Kunming EXPO '99 site visit. In preparation,
a guidebook explaining the park's history and architecture has been developed.



- 96 -                    Appendix E
The reconstruction and repair of earthquake damage to the buildings was done for a total
of Y 3.6 million, with Y 2.1 million coming through IDA funding and the remainder from
national assistance. Bank Group missions gave advice on historic conservation standards
and techniques and emphasized the need for an informative explanation of the site either
through guidebooks or trained guides.
Project Strengths
Private Initiative and Energy and Determination
In November of 1998, a World Bank supervision mission visited Lijiang, Dali and Di
Qing Prefectures to evaluate progress on all subprojects funded under the loan. The
mission found that the local authorities have substantially completed the reconstruction
program identified at appraisal. The communities affected by the earthquake appear to
have substantially recovered from both the physical destruction and the emotional trauma
of the disaster. Much credit is due to the Yunnan Provincial and Prefecture authorities for
their excellent management skills and to the local communities for their energy and
resilience.
Future Work
Because of its distinguished architectural and environmental legacy Lijiang Old City has
been identified by the National government as a future center for tourism in the region.
Tourism and the related commerce would provide important employment and other
income generating opportunities to the area's low-income population. However, thought
needs to be given to what will happen to Lijiang's social fabric when large numbers of
tourists visit the town bringing with them lifestyles, behavior and material goods that are
in sharp contrast with local norms. Special efforts must be made to assure that the
economic benefits of tourism are captured at the local level in order to maintain positive
attitude on the part of residents.



MAP SECTION



7             o0'                \    0so'                  90'                    10                    110'                    120                    130
50'                                       RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
yX                                                                                              f,    .         .                     50'
KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                     f
\r   I                                                                   J                 7         HEILONGJIANG
>                                           MONGOLIA')                                                   >. .H earbin
UZBEKISTAN                    --'
5IEKSTA   > -SpM O N G O L I Ar
-~_                                                                                                                              G                    ~ChcrQhunXe
, KYRGYZ                             Urumqie)                                                              r                                      IL IN
-"REPUBLIC            J                                                                                                                            .I
_  ~~~ , Y / vt R g >~~~~~~K~                                                                                          Sbon>4pg r "- ""
-~~ -"- -   B~~~IOU        /          K$'~ LIAONING  ZDEM                   40
0 ,  t                                            K )(' I N 11 A N G  ,         IBRD 30368 H oh                                   REP         aa
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ha '                                      HEBEI                               '
/'~~     oh & <un ,   Sh1ozhu 0         K-         4C                 RERE P. OF 
ThNmp o-produced by                                              * *                                                     Taiyuae       -                      KREA
the Mp Desin Unit of The                     X ___  *E                              ' '.    4               SHANXIJc
World Ban. Teb-edories,                                                                                                          ina
l nosnotiosnd                                              o IN aGH A I in-) i-ti- -d,   SHANDON -a.
on thd-nfrstieopshoo
no tis1mop donot imply en                                                                    GANSU J            .              W ' %> gg;    s    ;SO; :Qf;;a0:;0
tho port of The World Book                                           (\,                                                              t:1
Gr-op, -ny jdgment on the                                                                                   L          Iioozkrs t;                                     ;
or -ny endorsement or                         tv,-.                  2-                                  v                          l.Ji )AN
-ccpt-nce  f s-h                                    ,                  NSH-AANXP0                                   ~      < N U>
boondories.                        X I Z A N G             >> ' _    >" I 4                                    "- ')  - Z A N G  He     0
SICHUAN                JHUBEI 
,L' hasa                                   0Chengdu         Z                           H                         I    
CHINA                                            N'             1HNN                             JAGX >
INNER MONGOLIA AND                                                         0  TGUI; U<
YUNNAN EARTHQUAKE                                            1                      >vng®                        ,  , A  'i
* PROJECT SITE LOCATIONS-    Y NN                                   -        GANX
RECONSTRUCTION PRORAM                                                      Kumi9                                               KON                                  2
®    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                      "-     *N0.
® NATIONAL CAPITAL                    ~"$~"~ItN
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                         Z 
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                   -0      V           VIETNAM                     .
LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                                 2
0   100  200  300  400  500 MILES                           t          rEP 'I"            'A'N'
-<                                                                        00 00 600                                                                      800 KI         O       f ETERS THAILAND'  \ 9 5 t j4AIPHIL^.I^^P; ^t t;TAA 0ND,
-a            0    ~~~~~~~20'0   40'0   60'0   800 KILOMETERS                           "-,NSU
-a                                                        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00'    /"'   o



,              ,   +,.                                                          CHINA
WULATE-ZHONG 0)                                        DA 'ERHANMAOMINGAN               INNER MONGOLIA EARTHQUAKE
-                                                74                   *ULIANHEGI                    RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
_,YUAN                         ,                     44%                                              0   PROJECT LOCATIONS
IW-' UYUAN48                                     <>                * +^*   ^*__> 4                                 EPICENTER
,- - -' - - -                                                                                                          - - - -    COUNTY BOUNDARIES
I ,           GU YANG
WULATE-QIAN Ql                                 Y    C            WUCHUAN
'ss   u Yfang County 
\\   Wula Te                          Is      t                        5t                                 RUSSIAN       *
E) Front Banner               E                                                                           FEDERATION     !
EPICENTERi       C                   ./.
I   BAOTOU SHI                                                               MONGOLA
Kun Dulun 0D ®Q ingSWDs!t,                  -, O-.- -
'  District.    SubJlrlban Distrtl                  ..
HANGJIN 01  4- 10                     (D (D~~ Dong  e DistAct      1                                              0p~o
HANGJINQl | X * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TU/AOTE- |     |                                                                        W  <  AN^)
Dala Te Banner                T- UMOTE-YOU 0  ZUO at                =
/       ~~(shu fin zhao town)
DALATE QI
XZANG \ S{C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HUBEI } 
This ocp  wIr podonod by
This pN,oosgo U,iiofo Th.                               8,,                                                                 HUNAN4
World Book. Th' boondodes.         P4ne                                                                               U
Col.or, deno-ointions rnd                         *
oy other inlorronoi-n rom.4p    1*                                   4       ZHUNGE'ER Ql        4 NooonI Capitol         X                          PACIFIC
on th5 osop do not ioply, ooNG E4 A4OCA
theport of Th. World Baok      DONGSHENG                        - -                                louoories    /
G< or   any eodrsn,ot  or                                                             I                FltnorlO 000M
c  kxgostu of any errifty,    O*__                                            20      40      60       suo;L O ;V p,f                                                a
bound7es ofcC         YIJINHUOLUO Ql                #                     KILOMETERS              Booodones  5 P.OtVI
4  I  4osss             lo~~~~~~~~~~~pp- -6oI)  __H_PP_N___O



Thnoo   'o prooo  h Mop Dognip T
100,                d                                  ~~~~~~CHINA
XIZA                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~th. port of Th. Wol ok r .oo op
Moo teritryro odosoionYUNNAN  EARTHQUAKE
T. X-qAg  .-t.-d-hRECONSTRUCTION  PROGRAM
CASE STUDY
SICHUAN                               lm       ~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT PREFECTURES
--  MAIN ROADS
o     SELECTED TOWN
I   I                            0~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED COUNTY SEATS
KILOMETERS                         ~~     ~~~~~ SEAT OF PREFECTURES
28--            .......... PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
t  Leap                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MONGOLIA
0                     LIJIAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
MYA   MAR  N   IANG                                                                                       i3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r2      )A
Ho i               ~~~~QINGH-AI             0
G5,ANSUsIAA's- A
XIZANG     AreaE~    ~ AGA  Coc
main~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
X ONG          Naii
Province               GUJANOIGJN                           C
Bouedories                                                            ;a
0                       -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Intern.tional  o    IT
~AOSHAN              a    C0                           0                        caBudre  THAILADlG)LP



