Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
a/~ 3// "a 
Report No. 7607-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
POWER SYSTEM M&INTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
JULY 28, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Western Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiAl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
On September 26, 1986, Nigeria adopted a flexible exchange rate policy and
introduced a Second-tier Foreign Exchange Market (SFEM) comprising an auction
and an interbank market. On July 2, 1987, SFEM and the official (e.g., first-
tier) rates were merged. On January 9, 1989, Nigeria moved from the fortnightly
auction system to direct daily sales of official sources of foreign exchange
to the banks, and the exchange rate is now established in the interbank m&rket.
The exchange rate on January 9, 1989 was US$1 = N6.87.  A rate of US$1 = N6.9
has been used for project analysis.
US$1.00 = N6.90
N1.00  =  US$0.14
N1.00 = Kobo 100
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)                   *  0.621 miles
1 ton (t)                         =  1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 ponnds (lbs)
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)      =  10.2 million kilocalories, 40.5
million BTU or 7.33 barrels of oil
1 cubic feet (cft)                 =  0.0283 cubic meters (m3)
1 MCF                                 1,000 standard cubic feet
1 kilowatt (kW)                       1,000 watts
1 megawatt (MW)                       1,000 kW
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)              =  1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                 1 million kWh
1 kilovolt (kV)                       1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)               1,000 kilovolt ampere (kVA)   1,000 volt
ampere (VA)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVTATIONS
AGM(s)  -     Assistant General Manager(s)
CBN     -     Central Bank of Nigeria
FGN     -     Federal G5ernment of Nigeria
FMFED   -     Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
FMMPS   -     Federal Ministry of Mines, Power and Steel
FMPR    -     Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources
KfW     -     Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
MIS     -     Management Information System
NCC     -     Nigerian Coal Corporation
NEPA    -     National Electric Power Authority
NNPC    -     Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation
ODA     -     Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PPF     -     Project Preparation Facility
SOE     -     Statement of Expenditure
TSCF    -     trillior standard cubic feet
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1t No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..........................................    iii
I.  THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS .................................       1
A.  Energy Resources and Consumption ..................           1
B.  Institutions ....... ...................                      2
C.  Energy Policy and Pricing ..... ...............               3
D.  Existing Electricity Supply Facilities
and Performance .....................................      4
E.  Electricity Consumption ...... ................               6
F.  Power System Development Program (1989-93) ............       7
G.  Bank Group assistance ......     ...........................  9
3. Past Bank Involvement ..... ...............               9
2.  Bank Role in the Power Sector .......... ...........    10
II. NEPA - THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY ...............................      11
A.  Organization and Management ............. .. ............    11
B.   Staffing and Personnel Management .......... ...........    12
C.   Tr&ining  ..............................................    13
D.  Management Information Systems ........... .. ...........    14
E.  Accounting, Audit and Insurance ........... ............     15
F.  Past Financial Performance and Present Position   .......    16
G. Commercialization of NEPA    ..19
H.  Financial Recovery Program for NEPA     .      .22
1.  Improvements in Billing, Collection and
System Losses .22
2. Revaluation of Fixed Assets .23
3. Capital Restructuring .23
4.  Investment Program and Financing Plan (1989-93)         24
5.  Financial Objectives and Electricity Tariffs            25
6. Future Finances .26
III. THE PROJECT .27
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .27
B. Project Objectives.                                           28
This Report was prepared by Surendra Agarwal (Task Manager), Mutumwa Mawere,
Dileep Wagle (Western Africa Department), Stephen Berkman (Africa Technical
Department), and P. Khirwadkar, I. P. E. Mathai (Consultants). Pamela Blyther
and Eleanor George provided word processing assistance.  Indu Hewawasam and
Margaret Smith provided secretarial support in preparation of the Report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
C.  Project Description .......    ............................  28
l. Maintenance and Rehabilitation Component ..........    28
2.  Institutional Strengthening of IEPA Component .....   29
3.  Project Management Assistance Component ...........    30
4.  Studies and Future Project Preparation Component ..   30
D.  Project Implementation ......    ..........................  30
1.  Project Status and Management ..    ...................  30
2. Monitoring and Reporting Requirements .............    31
E.  Environmentel Aspects ......    ...........................  31
F.  Project Capital Cost ......    ............................  31
G.  Financing Plan ........    ................................  33
H.  Procurement        ...........................................  34
I.  Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan ........... ...   35
IV.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION. BENEFITS AND RISKS ....   ..............    37
V.    AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS       40
ANNEXES
1-1   Installed Capacity, Generation, Sales, Staff and Consumer Data
1-2   Summary of Capital Expenditure Programs (1989-1993)
1-3   Electricity Demand and Supply under the Capital Expenditure
Program (1988-1998)
1-4   Available Capacity, Electricity Balance and Fuel Cost (1988-1993)
2-1   Present and Proposed Organization Charts of NEPA
2-2   Commercialization of NEPA
2-3   An Outline of Technical Assistance under the Utility Partnership
Program
2-4   Operational Objectives of the Pilot District Program for Efficiency
Improvements
2-5   Revaluation of Fixed Assets
2-6   Draft Terms of Reference for the Revaluation of Fixed Assets
2-7   Assumptions for Financial Analysis
2-8   NEPA - Historical and Projected Financial Statements
3-1   Electricity Supply Facilities and Detailed Project Description
3-2   Project Management Services for the Project Implementation Coordination
Team in NEPA - Draft T -is of Reference
3-3   Project Implementation Schedule
3-4   Capital Cost Estimate by Project Components
3-5   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
4     Economic Analysis
5     Selacted Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 21325



- lii -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION MWROECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:        National Electric Power Authority (NEPA)
Guarantor:       Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:          US$70 million equivalent
Terms:           Twesnty years, including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
Description:     The major objectivea of the Project are to:  (a) assist NEPA
in carrying out much-delayed maintenance and rehabilitation
of selected generation, transmission and distribution
facilities, so as to improve the supply of power in the near
term; and (b) help establish institutional strengthening of
NEPA and provide the basis for a commercially viable entity,
capable of delivering a reliable and economic supply of
electricity to its customers. The Project includes four
components: (i) maintenance and rehabilitation component
covering improvements in selected generation, transmission
and distribution facilities, metering equipment, vehicles
and assistance in the conversion of the Egbin plant to gas;
(ii) institutional strengthening of NEPA; (iii) project
-management assistance; and (iv) studies and future project
preparation assistance.
Proiect
Benefits and
Risks:           The Project will help (a) improve the efficiency, av-ilabil-
ity and reliability of power supply in the country; and (b)
relieve power shortages and reduce the high cost of private
autogeneration. The Project will also contribute substan-
tially towards institution building to improve the effi-
ciency and management of NEPA, and help establish it as a
commercially viable utility.
The main risks of the Pro,ect are related to possible delays
in project implementation, cost overruns, and the achieve-
ment/sustainability of institutional improvements. The
establishment of a Project Implementation Coordination Team
in NEPA, and specialist assistance in project management
should minimize the risk of a delay in implementation. The
project design is such that should project costs exceed the
estimates, the scope of the work may be decreased to
accommodate the funds available with little detrimental
effect upon the completed portion. The Government is fully
committed to the strengthening of the power sector, and



- iv -
recent changes In the attitude towards the importance of
management of NEFA and parastatals in general should ensure
political suppott for institutional improvements. The
prospects of new actions to improve the performance of NEPA
are, therefore, now brighter than before. The presence of
strong technical assistance through the utility assistance
program should also minimize this risk. Annual reviews of
NEPA's achievements would provide a framework to ensure
satisfactory implementation of the institutional aspects cf
the proposed Project.
Estimated Cost:
Local a!        Foreign         Total
----_- US$ million equivalent ----
Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Generation improvements               16.9              49.4           66.3
Transmission improvements              5.3              13.2           18.5
Distribution improvements              5.5              11.4           16.9
Metering equipment                      1.7              3.5            5.2
Vehicles                                9.4              8.0           17.4
Conversion of the Egbin
Plant to gas                         0.1               0.3            0.4
Subtotal                         38.9             85.8           124.7
Institutional Strengthening                  2.6              8.0            10.6
Project Management                           0.3              1.0             1.3
Studies & Future Project Preparation         0.3              1.3             1.6
Base Cost                             42.1              96.1           138.2
Physical Contingencies                       1.4              3.5             4.9
Price Contingencies                          3.0              7.0            10.0
Total Project cost                    46.5             106.6          153.1
Refinancing of PPF Advance                                    1.5             1.5
Total Financing Required              46.5             108.1          1E4h
a/ Including US$28 million equivalent in duties and taxes.
Local          Foreign          Total
Financing Plan:                              -------US$ million equivalent------
IBRD                                                    70.0           70.0
Federal Republic of Germany
Commodity Aid                                     15.4            15.4
KfW Loan                                           9.1             9.1
UK - ODA Grant                                           5.0            5.0
Suppliers' Credit                       -                8.6            8.6
NEPA (Internal Funds)                 20.5                -            20.5
Government Loan                       26.0                             26.0
Total                            46.5            108.1           154.6



-  v
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                            90         91        92         93         94
--------- USS million equivalent ---------
Annual                            19.0       35.0      10.0        5.0       1.0
Cumulative                        19.0      54.0       64.0       69.0     70.0
Economic Rate of Return:   18.42



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATIOhw PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
A.   Energy Resources and Consumption
1.01      Nigeria has substantial and diversified energy resources,
especially oil, natural gas, hydro potential, coal and fuelwood. Since the
first commercial discovery of oil in 1956, Nigeria has become a leading
oil-exporting country. Its proven reserves of oil, on-shore and off-sho:e
in the Niger River Delta, are currently estimated at around 2.2 billion
tons, in addition to gas reserves of about 85 trillion standard cubic feet
(TSCF) - equivalent to about 2.1 billion tons of oil. About half cf its
gas reserves are in the form of associated gas. It is estimated that
another 1.1 billion tons of recoverable oil reserves and 65 TSCF of gas
reserves exist, and are so far undiscovered. Proven indicated and inferred
reserves of coal and lignite are estimated at between 270 and 980 million
tons located in the south-east of the country. Output of coal declined
sharply, however, from its late-1950s peak of 900,000 tons, and has not
recovered since, and amounted to only 117,000 tons in 1987.
1.02      Nigeria's hydro-electric potential, based upon the Niger river
system, is significant. It has been estimated at over 11,000 MW, of which
some 1,300 MW have already been harnessed, and another 600 1V1 will be
harnessed in the near future upon completion f' the Shiroro project.
Potential future projects identified by NEFA include Zungeru (950 MW),
Mambilla (2,600 MW) and Katsina-Ila (260 MW), together with several mini-
hydro projects.
1.03      The principal source of energy for the rural population is
woodfuel, which is, however, in relatively short supply. Total annual
consumption has been conservatively estimated at 15 million cubic meters
(cu.m.), against an estimated incremental annual supply from all sources
(forest reserves and farm lands) of only about 10 million cu.m. The
growing imbalance between demand and supply, in keepirng with population
growth, indicates an increasing trend of deforestation. It is estimated
that, excluding forest reser-'es, the standing volume of tree stocks
represents less than 10 years' supply at the current level of consumption.
1.04      After the oil crisis in 1973-74, the increase in Nigeria's
national income was accompanied by a marked increase in commercial usage of
energy.  During 1974-81, commercial energy consumption increased from 3
million tons of oil equivalent (toe) to 11.2 million toe, a growth rate of
20.72 per annum (p.a.). This increase marked a fundamental structural
transformation of a predominantly agrarian society using traditional fuels
into an urban-based one using large quantities of commercial fuels for its
activities. The level of consumption of commercial energy has been
positively correlated with the level of economic growth. Whereas energy
consumption increased rapidly when the economy was in an upswing, the



increase could not be sustained in the wake of falling oil prices and
general economic recession.
1.05      Total annual energy consumpt.on in Nigeria is estimated at about
20 million toe. Commercial energy accounts for about 60? of the total.
Petroleum products make up about 70Z of commercial energy consumption, the
balance being distributed between gas (20Z), and hydro and coal (10?).
Consumption of petroleum products increased at a rate of 15? p.a., from 3.9
million tons in 1976 to over 9.2 million tons in 1982, declining somewhat
thereafter between 1983 and 1987, to around 8.5 million tons.
B.   Institutions
1.06      The energy sector in Nigeria is dominated by State-owned
enterprises. This is particularly true in electricity and coal, where the
Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has a virtual monopoly through the
National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) and the Nigerian Coal Corporation
(NCC), and to a lesser degree in petroleum marketing, where all three
existing refineries (and a fourth under construction) are owned and
operated by the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Three of
the eight petroleum marketing companies (African Petroleum, National and
Unipetrol) are qlso controlled by NNPC, which together hold a 34Z market
share for gasoline, kerosene and gasoil, and nearly 50? for other products,
such as fuel oil, base oils and asphalt. Nigerian nationals have a 60Z
majority ownership in the remaining five companies, which are subsidiaries
of international oil companies (Agip, Mobil, Texaco, Total and Elf). About
752 of the small liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) market is served by eleven
major Nigerian distribution companies.
1.07      During its early years, NNPC mainly oversaw state participation
in the oil companies. However, in recent years, it has taken a more active
role in exploration, refining and marketing. NNPC has recently been
decentralized and "commercialized.' As a consequence, individual units
have been given more autonomy, and the organization as a whole will no
longer be dependent upon FGN for capital funding. NNPC is now expected to
raise loans on its own from commercial banks and other financial
institutions within and outside Nigeria to finance its investment program.
It is now also free to set prices for its products on the basis of
commercial considerations.
1.08      In the power sector, NEPA generates and distributes most of the
public supply of electricity. NEPA was created in 1972 through the merger
of the Electricity Corporation of Nigeria and the Niger Dams Authority,
under the National Electric Power Decree, giving it the monopoly to
generate, transmit and distribute electricity throughout the country. NEPA
operates under the general oversight of the Federal Ministry of Mines,
Power and Steel (FMPS). In recent years, the quality of NEPA's service to
its customers has been poor. As a result, a large autogeneration capacity
by consumers, unable to obtain adequate and reliable supply of power, has
been built up in the country.
1.09      Following on the heels of NNPC's commercialization, and the
Government's decision to privatize and commercialize some 135 parastatals,
the Government has decided to effect a partial commercialization of NEPA as



- 3 -
well. A Sub-Committee of the Technial Cormittee for Commercialization and
Privatization has currently examined the various options available, and its
recommendations are now being considered by the Government. However, it is
anticipated that although NEPA, as a public utility, would not receive the
same freedom of operation as NNPC, it would nevertheless receive some
degree of autonomy in several critical areas, notably in compensation
policy, tariff setting, and in determining its capital expenditure program.
The Government intends to also restructure NEPA's management, and a new
organization chart has already been approved (Chapter II).
1.10      The administration of forest lands is a state responsibility.
The FGN's Department of Forestry plays largely an advisory, investment-
financing and coordinating role. The divergence of interests between the
states and the various federal organizations has made it very difficult to
evolve a coordinated energy strategy based on rational economic criteria.
The office of the Special Advisor to the President on Petroleum and Energy,
which used to perform some coordinating functions, was abolished in 1984,
and so far it has not been replaced by any alternative body. FGN has
recently set up a Nat'onal Energy Commission under the Ministry of Science
and Technology in an attempt to fill this gap.
C.   Energy Policy and Pricing
1.11      In the absence of a specific energy ministry at the federal
level, a clear-cut energy policy is difficult to find. In general,
however, the Government's energy sector priorities are increasingly
concerned with (a) the preservation of oil reserves for export; (b) the
channelling of energy sector investments into foreign exchange-earning
hydrocarbon projects and least-cost power sector programs; and (c) ensuring
that energy prices gradually evolve to approach their economic opportunity
costs.
1.12      FGN has played a major role in the determination of the
country's energy prices. Until recently, there has been a tendency to set
energy prices at levels well below their econom2c opportunity costs which
has created distortions in resource allocation. Low domestic petroleum
prices meant an implicit subsidy to consumers, which iui 1981 amounted to
around 60X of the average export price, and in 1987 - despite price
increases earlier in 1986 - to about 72Z. A pricing policy for natural gas
based upon the economic costs of supply is now being developed. For many
years, customers were served by NNPC-Shell under price agreements signed
15-20 years ago. New customers - Delta Steel, and NEPA's Sapele and Afam
plants - were being served without formal sales agreements, and prices
between them and NNPC were under dispute. Subsequently, prices were being
administered by an inter-agency committee of NNPC and major gas consumers,
established under the Federal Ministry of Petroleum. With the recent
commercialization of NNPC, this position will soon change. NNPC has
already raised prices for petroleum products, in effect from April 1, 1988,
by 6Z for gasoline, 124Z for kerosene, 375Z for aviation fuel, 18% for
diesel oil, 21% for engine oil, 582 for fuel oil, and 1602 for base oil
used in the manufacture of lubricants. The price of gasoline was increased
further in January 1989, by another 432 for private cars. NNPC has
negotiated a new price for gas with NEPA for its Egbin power plant, at
about N5.24 per thousand standard cubic feet with an escalation of 8X p.a.



-4-
1.13      Electricity tariffs had remained unchanged since 1'79, when they
were raised to about 7 kobos/kWh. At that level, they represented only
about one-sixth of the long-run marginal cost of supply, and were totally
inadequate to cover even cash operating costs of generating, transmitting
and distributing power. Following extensive discussions on the proposed
project and in accordance with the Government's decision to partially
commercialize NEPA, electricity tariffs have been raised as of June 1989 to
an average of about 27.5 kobos/kWh. Under the proposed project, actions
would continue to be taken to raise tariffs to appropriate levels (paras
2.38 and 2.39).
D.   Existing Electricity SUpPly Facilities and Performance
1.14      Nigeria's installed generating capacity is substantial, and, on
the face of it, more than adequate to meet its current peak load. Yet, the
country has faced constant problems of supply for more than a decade due to
considerable inoperable capacity and a low level of system reliability.
Current installed generating capacity is about 4,700 MW, consisting of the
Kainji and Jebba hydro plants (1,300 MW or 28Z of the total), the Sapel'-
and Egbin (steam) thermal plants (2,040 MW or 43Z), and the Delta, Sapele
and Afam (gas) thermal plants (1,274 MW or 27Z), and the Ijora oil-based
thermal plant (60 MW or 2Z). Although the current peak load is about 2,000
MW, there have been constant supply shortfalls. The principal reason for
this has been the non-availability of a significant portion of the capacity
for one reason or another, coupled with bottlenecks in the transmission and
distribution systems. In addition to capacity that has become inoperable,
even plants in good working order have not been fully available all of the
time. For example, the relatively new Egbin plant has been running at well
below its rated capacity due to until recently a delay in commissioning the
gas pipeline from Escravos to Lagos, and the fact that NEPA because of its
low tariffs could not afford the cost of the alternative fuel oil.
Similarly, hydro generation until recently was affected by the relatively
poor rainfall.
1.15      An additional 600 MW of capacity is expected from the Shiroro
hydro project nearing completion, and another 600 MW by the Delta IV gas
fired station. If these are commissioned on schedule, NEPA's installed
capacity should rise to over 5,800 MW by the end of 1992.
1.16      As a consequence of the unreliable electricity supply,
substantial captive generating capacity has been established in the
country. While no precise estimates are available, data on licenses issued
for new autogeneration capacity, plus renewals of existing licenses, for
the past three years alone, all of which cover only a portion of the total
captive sets available iix the economy, indicated the presence of a minimum
of 500 MW of captive generating sets with commercial and more affluent
households. Actual autogeneration availability, as estimated in the Bank's
Energy Assessment for Nigeria (1983), may well be as high as 1,500 Mw.
1.17      NEPA's transmission system consists of about 4,500 km of 330 kV
lines, twenty two 330 kV/132 kV step-down sub-stations, about 4,500 km of
132 kV lines with 80 sub-stations feeding the main distribution networks at
33 kV and 11 kV. Overall, the transmission system is characterized by a



relatively small number of long transmission lines connecting generating
stations which, with the exception of the Egbin plant in Lagos, are remote
from load centers. The reliability of the system has so far been poor with
frequent cascading transmission outages and even total system collapses
having taken place in the past. NEPA is planning to construct about 870 km
of 330 kV lines, covering Beniin-Onitsha, Alaoji-Enugu, Enugu-Makurdi, and
Gombe-Maiduguri, which will strengthen and extend the reach of the
transmission network.
1.18      The distribution system consists of nearly 60,000 km of overhead
and underground lines, more than 13,000 sub-vtations and some 2 million
service connections. It is composed of: (a) 9,500 km of 33 kV lines, with
330--33/11 kV sub-stations, and 3,400 MVA 33/11 transformer capacity; (b)
15,750 km of 11 kV lines, with 12,800--110.415 kV sub-stations, and 3,700
MVA transformer capacity; and (c) 34,000 km of 415V LT lines. The systeu
has been constrained from expanding by shortages of materials, vehicles and
foreign exchange. The shortage of vehicles, in particular, is so severe
that only about 400 - 500 of NEPA's original fleet of 3,000 is estimated to
be in good working ordet. This has seriously impeded NEPA's ability to
a&tend to faults and to maintain its system adequately.
1.19      As of September 1988, 26 out of NEPA's 65 generating units -
covering 1,860 MW of capacity (402 of the total) - were non-operational. A
number of units have remained out of operation for ,?eriods ranging between
1 to 4 years.  Moreover, most of the operating units at the Sapele steam
station, and at the gas fired stations at Afam, Sapele, and Delta were
found to be overdue for maintenance.  The current status of NEPA's
generating capacity is summarized in Annex 3-1.
1.20      Inability to maintain and repair equipment has contributed, to a
significant extent, to NEPA's failure to deliver a reliable supply of
electricity.  This has been true of transmission and distribution as much
as of generation. In transmission, on account of financial constraints,
NEPA has faced difficulties in recent years in obtaining critical spare
parts and manpower services necessary for maintaining circuit breakers and
other equipment, with the result that many of its transmission facilities
have become run-down and, in some cases inoperable.
1.21      In distribution, similarly, NEPA has been experiencing problems
with its transformers, a large number of which have been getting
overloaded. A systeam emergency reinforcement committee in NEPA in 1987
estimated that 11 transmission sub-stations and 66 distribution injection
sub-stations were loaded to above 85Z of their ratings and were in need of
immediate reinforcement. Overloading of transformers is currently
resulting in a monthly loss in energy consumption of about 5.2 GWh,
especially in Lagos North, Enugu and Kaduna. An estimated 350 MW of load
is also currently being suppressed on this account.
1.22      The unreliability of electricity supplies has partly been
because NEPA's National System Control Center is still not fully
operational and lacks the monitoring facilities needed to enable its load
dispatchers to analyze and respond quickly to system disturbances. As a
result, it has been difficult to maintain unified grid operations and to
prevent system collapses. There were about 22 total system collapses and



- 6 -
11 partial system faults in 1987. Of these, 17 faults originated from the
transmission system. Similarly, during the first 6 months of 1988, six out
of 9 major system disturbances were due to problems in the transmission
system, and the remaining 3 faults were due to problems in the generation
system.
1.23      System disturbances of such an order have had a devastating
impact upon the stability and durability of the generation equipment,
especially for vulnerable components such as gas turbine blades. Moreover,
the thermal stations have invariably had to take 3 to 4 hours to resume
operations, and on average, about 2 GWh of generation is estimated to have
been lost on each such occasion, in addition to increased fuel consumption
for start-up purposes.
E.   Electricity Consumption
1.24      Electricity consumption in Nigeria has increased rapidly over
the past decade. Trends in system peak demand, system demand for energy
generated (consumption), and energy sales during the past decade are
summarized in Annex 1-1. The system peak load has risen steadily from 800
MW in 1977 to 1,855 MW in 1987, at an average annual growth rate of about
8.7Z. It increased to 1,905 MW in March 1988, and to 1,995 MW in January
1989. The consumption of electric energy increased at a rate of 9.3Z p.a.;
in terms of energy sales the rate of growth has, however, been slightly
slower - 6.8Z p.a. This reflects NEPA's relatively poor performance in
metering and billing (para. 2.19). Between 1977 and 1987, the number of
consumers increased from about 700,000 to more than 2 million, 40Z of whom
are in the Lagos --ea.
1.25      The distribution of electricity consumption in Nigeria has moved
increasingly i favor of the residential sector, as shown below.
Share of Electricity ConsumPtion
(Z of total energy sales in GWh)
1977           1987
Residential           43.4           56.6
Commercial            18.7           10.1
Industrial            37.9           33.3
100.0          1100.o
1.26      To some extent, the declining share of commercial and industrial
consumers in total electricity sales reflects the somewhat lesser
dependence of these groups upon the relatively unreliable supply of
electricity from the grid, and the correspondingly greater usage of captive
generation sets. The balance between the demand from this group and the
residential consumer group is likely to change once grid supply becomes
!          more reliable.  At the same time, given the still very low level of
electricity consumption in the country - only about 16Z of the population
;          is estimated to have access to electricity - the potential for an increase
in residential consumption remains high.  Many smaller urban centers in the



country are not yet electrified, and the schedule of suppressed load shows
waiting lists of up to 2 years in many of the up-country districts.
1.27      As a consequence of this distribution of consumption, the shape
of the load curve is weighted towards an evening-time (lighting) peak. To
the extent that future growth in consumption is relatively more influenced
by industrial and commercial load, this shape would become flatter, so that
increases in energy consumption could be met with less-than-proportionate
increases in generating capacity.
1.28      On account of the distortion in electricity prices in Nigeria,
and in the absence of adequate data on elasticity of demand for
electricity, it is difficult to project load growth over the medium-to-
long-term with a high degree of coni_dence. A load forecast made by
Tractbel Engineering International (Brussels), Consulting Engineers, as
part of their "25-Year NEPA power Syst^m Development Study" (June, 1988),
projected demand for electric energy, as well as for peak output, to
increase at a rate of 8.3? p.a. up to 1992, at 7.9? between 1993 to 1996,
and at 6.7Z between 1997 and 2002. The forecasting model used GDP growth
(projected at 3a p.a., after averaging out projections for individual
sectors) as the principal independent variable, and made allowances for the
effects of suppressed loads.
1.29      Taking into account the projected recovery of the Nigerian
economy (an average annual growth rate of 5? in GDP in medium term), and an
anticipated change in the load curve on account of the relatively more
rapid increase in (grid) consumption by the industrial and commercial
sectors, the electricity consumption and the system peak demand are assumed
to increase at annual rates of 7? and 5? respectively over the forthcoming
decade. These growth rates are lower than those observed during the past
decade, mainly to adjust for the likely effect of upward revision in
electricity tariffs in the future. On the other hand, industry and part of
the commercial sector are in any case incurring substantially higher costs
of supply than is reflected in NEPA's tariffs, through their use of
autogeneration, and, therefore, the demand projections to some extent may
prove to be on the low side.
F.   Power System Development Program (1989-93)
1.30      NEPA's Fifth National Development Plan (1988-92) had as its
objective the provision of "a reliable and efficient system of electricity
supply to meet the increasing demand of consumers in all parts of the
country." Towards this end, NEPA's facilities would need to be adequately
maintained and optimally utilized, and new facilities created where
necessary to meet future demand. The objectives of NEPA's plan remain
relevant, and constitute the basis of its medium-term development program.
1.31      The priorities of NEPA's development program have not changed
substantially from the time of the previous Bank mission in May 1987 to
appraise a power system improvement project (Power VII), which did not
proceed because of the lack of action on tariffs and the commercialization
of NEPA. In generation, the immediate priority is to increase available
capacity aS quickly as possible through rehabilitation of existing, but
currently inoperable capacity, maintenance of the operating units, and



- 8 -
investment in projects with a high sunk-cost element. The proposed project
focusses on the rehabilitation and maintenance of selected generation
facilities. The 600 MW Shiroro hydro plant financed by the Government is
very close to completion. NEPA contracted for the 600 MW Delta IV gas
turbine plant as far back as 1982. Financing for the foreign exchange cost
of this plant has since been arranged with the US EXIM Bank and Japan; the
plant could begin to augment system capacity as early as 1990. Since the
recently completed Egbin plant will be running to full capacity by then,
and Shiroro should commence operations by that time also, it would probably
not matter if the construction of Delta IV were to be postponed by a few
years! say until 1992. In any event, the increase in _ -eration capacity
resulting from these investments should be sufficient to maeet the projected
increase in denand for electricity until 1997.
1.32      Regarding transmission and distribution, the immediate
priorities are to remove bottlenecks, which are currently constraining the
efficient supply of electricity generated, followed by a rapid expansion of
the transmission and distribution system, so as to cater to the increased
generation capacity that the above i,vestments would be creating. The
proposed project includes priority maintenance and rehabilitation
improvements of the transmission and distribution systems. The expansion
of the transmission and distribution systems would be addressed by a
program of investments covering the various items which had been determined
to be of high priority during the Power VII appraisal. These include the
construction of: (a) four single circuit 330 kV transmission lines
together with related switching facilities, step-down stations and a 132 kV
double circuit line connecting Makurdi substation to the existing Yandev
substation; (b) nineteen 132/33 kV substations, together with extension of
11 existing substations and expansion of existing substation capacity by
some 2,300 MVA; and (c) addition of some 400 MVA of 11/0.4 kV distribution
capacity on distribution systems outside Lagos. These investments are
expected to be financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and
suppliers' credits.
1.33      On this basis, NEPA's minimum needs capital expenditure program
has been draw:' up for the period covering 1989-1993 (Annex 1-2), amounting
to US$1.2 billion as follows:
(in US$ million)
The Project                                      155
Shiroro Completion                               122
Delta IV                                         172
Transmission Extensicas                          285
Transmission Improvements                        200
Distribution Improvements                        133
Other (vehicles, metering, NSCC, etc.)           139
Total                                     1,206
1.34      The proposed Project is a part of this investment program, to be
implemented during 1989-1992. An agreement has been obtained from NEPA
that it will prepare and furnish to the Bank by October 31 of each year,



-9-
from 1989 to 1993, for exchange of views with the Bank, its investment
program and financing plan for the next five years. Such an exchange of
views on a rol' ng five year investment program would help determine the
nature and composition of capital expenditures planned, taking into account
the prevailing economic environment, the extent of realized load growth,
and the availability of financing.
1.35      The above investment program would be adequate to meet the
growth in demand until about 1997. The projected energy balance under the
investment program for the 1988-1998 period is shown in Annex 1-3.
Beginning 1997, demand begins to exceed supply, indicating that further
investments in generating capacity would become necessary fairly soon after
the complet3isi of the currently-envisaged investment program. In
projecting the energy balance, it has been assumed that technical losses
will decline' from their current level of 15! to 10X by 1993. This process
should be assisted by the proposed project through strengthening of the
transmission and distribution system, and through provision of appropriate
technical assistance and manpower training. Available capacity,
electricity balance and fuel cost for the period 1988-1993 are shown in
Annex 1-4.
G.   Bank Group Assistance
1. Past Bank Involvement
1.36      The Bank has been involved with the power sector in Nigeria
since 1963. Six loans totalling about US$400 million have been made for
projects covering the Kainji hydro-electric scheme, transmission and
distribution facilities throtr-hout the country, technical assistance and
training. While the Bank's involvement in the sector has been generally
successful in terms of the physical development of the power system, it has
been less than satisfactory in the context of institutional development.
1.37      One of the Bank's principal contributions during the first four
loans (1964-72) has been in the consolidation of sector planning,
development and operations. The Bank was instrumental in the creation of
NEPA, through the integration of the separate Electricity Corporation of
Nigeria and the Niger Dams Authority. As a consequence of the Bank's
assistance during these years, the first systematically-integrated master
plan 'or power development in Nigeria was drawn up, and a planning function
(a high level Planning Committee) instituted within NEPA.
1.38      The two most recent projects - Power V and VI (Loans 1766 and
2085-UNI), intended to provide transmission and distribution facilities in
Lagos and other major cities, experienced implementation delays and cost
overruns. The Power V project, approved in November 1979, has experienced
major implementation delays caused mainly by late Government approvals of
contract awards; the Power VI project (approved in January 1982) had to be
redesigned in 1984, as a consequence of the change in the economic
environment, and expansion of the distribution system in cities outside of
Lagos was dropped, and part of the loan reallocated to provide emergency
spare parts for generation and transmission. The Power VI project advanced
more rapidly than Power V because of the use of turnkey contracts and the
absence of major delays in contract awards. It was completed with its



- 10 -
modified scope almost on schedule during 1987. The Power V project is now
expected to be completed in 1990.
1.39      The Bank's first loan to NEPA in 1972 (the fourth in the sector,
Loan No. 847-UNI) contained components aimed at helping the new utility
establish sufficient management, operational, financial and training
capabilities for it to operate successfully and meet rapidly increasing
demand and to support the utility's planning for further development. The
Project Performance Audit Report (Sec M85-1300) of December 10, 1985, on
this project identified NEPA's lack of commitment to training, in
particular, as posing a risk to the sustainability of the entity's
development. Both Power V and Power VI Projects included substantial
training/technical assistance components aimed at helping NEPA to achieve
these goals. Despite the substantial technical assistauce and training
provided by various donors and equipment suppliers, NEPA has made little
progress as an institution, and in some respects is weaker than when it was
first set up. Part of the difficulty has been due to the application of
civil service scales for salaries of NEPA's staff (which are too low to
attract scarce, quali.ied manpower from the labor market, and which limit
staff commitment), the lack of autonomy and accountability because of
Government interference in day-to-day operations of NEPA, and a very weak
financial position because of low tariffs which remained unchanged since
1979. The seventh power project (Power System Improvement Project Power
VII), which was appraised in May 1987, did not proceed due to the lack of
action on electricity tariffs and the commercialization of NEPA. During
this period, due to its continued inability to pay bills, NEPA has been
unable to obtain critical spare parts and services required for even
routine plant maintenance, seriously exacerbating the supply difficulties.
This has led to reformulate the Bank's assistance under the proposed
project focussing on urgent rehabilitation and maintenance, and on
institutional strengthening of NEPA. The Government has now recognized the
need to provide more autonomy to NEPA, adjust tariffs to improve its
financial health and hold it responsible for its performance through
partial commercialization. NEPA's management has also recognized the need
to commit itself to the development of its human resources.  As a result,
the prospects for success are now much brighter than before.
2. Bank Role in the Power Sector
1.40      The Nigerian economy has deteriorated sharply in recent years,
and this has contributed to the collapse of the power secto- as well. The
provision of adequate and satisfactory power supply is essential to the
recovery of the Nigerian economy and, in particular, the industrial sector.
The Bank's long-term strategy is to: (a) assist the Government in defining
a clear power sector strategy and in the effective implementation of the
necessary reforms, including commercialization of NEPA; (b) assist NEPA in
developing and financing support programs to improve its operational
efficiency; (c) help rationalize investment priorities; and (d) participate
in the financing of NEPA's investment program and help secure cofinancing.
However, the development and implementation of such a strategy would
undoubtedly take a long time.
1.41      A targeted Bank intervention is necessary at this time to (a)
help NEPA in its efforts to restore normal power supply in the country, and



- 11 -
meet the needs of its consumers and thereby make the requisite contribution
to the nation's economic recovery; and (b) assist in the longer-term
process of rationalizing the sector and improving its efficiency. The
proposed project is an attempt to address the sector's most immediate and
urgent problems. It would provide assistance to NEPA to enable it to carry
out critical and much-delayed maintenance and rehabilitation of its
selected facilities, thus preventing deterioration in the power supply. In
addition, it would help strengthen NEPA and provide the basis for a
commercially viable entity. The project would provide technical assistance
through a twinning arrangement over the medium-term with a mature operating
utility to assist NEPA in the initial implementation of the programs for
commercialization, and in all areas of its operations including upgrading
of the billing and collection system, reduction in system losses, and
imptoving the operational efficiency in general (paras 2.23-2.25). Once
NEPA is on the way to recovery and to a much improved service to its
customers, it would be possible to implement a comprehensive program to
support NEPA's long-term investment program and recovery efforts.
II. NEPA - THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
A.   Organization and Management
2.01      The structure and role of NEPA are governed by the National
Electric Power Decree of 1972 which provides for a nine-member Board
responsible for policy formulation and supervision of NEPA's management.
At present, the Board consists of eight members (including the Managing
Director, who until recently held the title of General Manager) with
expertise ranging from engineering to commercial. Only one member, the
Director General of the Federal Ministry of Mines, Power and Steel (FMMPS)
represents the Government. In theory, NEPA should operate with a
substantial measure of autonomy but, in practice, government actions have
reduced substantially NEPA's managerial freedom. FGN controls tariff
fixing, investment expenditures, borrowing, contract awards, pay and
employment policies and senior staff appointments.
2.02      NEPA's present organization structure (excluding the recenft
restructuring of the top management) is set out in Annex 2-1.
Responsibility for day-to-day operations lies with the Managing Director
assisted by seven Assistant General Managers (AGMs) in charge of
engineering, generation, transmission, distribution, commerciallcorporate
planning, finance, and administration. Corporate functions, together with
the construction and operation of the generation and transmission (above 33
kV) systems are concentrated at NEPA's headquarters in Lagos. Distribution
and commercial activities are decentralized. Eleven regional distribution
directorates handle the planning, design and construction of 33 kV lines.
Within the regional directorates, 2. district offices, each with its own
manager and complement of engineers, commercial staff and accountants are
responsible for distribution systems below 33 kV and for metering, billing
and other customer related activities. Following the Government's recent
decision to partially commercialize NEPA, NEPA has begun to make some key
changes in its organization and management.



_ 12 -
2.03      Prompted by the need to strengthen its metering, billing and
collection functions and improve its relationship with customers, NEPA has
recently reorganized the commercial/corporate planning and distribution
departments at the district level.  The post of district manager has been
eliminated, and replaced by two positions for district managers: one
responsible for commercial and the other for distribution activities.  Both
managers  report directly to their respective regional directors.  The
district distribution manager is exclusively concerned with the technical
operation including connections and disconnections.  The district
commercial manager is responsible for meter reading, billing and
collection. In addition, the Government has appointed two Deputy Managing
DJrectors responsible for generation/transmission and distribution/sales
under the Managing Director. This is a welcome step since under the
existing organization structure, the Managing Director's span of control,
extending from the Secretary's Department to Audit, Legal, Public Relations
and the seven AGMs, is too wide to be effective. The proposed organization
structure, which has already been approved by FGN, is also given in Annex
2-1.
2.04      NEPA's public image has deteriorated rapidly in recent years due
to poor quality and unreliability of service. There were 22 total system
blackouts and at least 11 partial system collapses in 1987. Average
consumer outages are in the range of some 500 to 600 hours per year--over
100 times the level of a typical rural system in developed countries.
These operational problems, the most apparent to consumers, are the result
of poor management, the lack of staff motivation and insufficient foreign
exchange for spare parts, vehicles and repairs. Other serious contributory
factors have been inadequate preventive maintenance programs, cumbersome
and slow contract approval within FGN, lack of proper training, poor
maintenance supervision, and even suspected sabotage. Belatedly, NEPA's
management has recognized the seriousness of the situation, especially the
financial crisis, and has begun to tackle some of the major problems. One
unhealthy development has been FGN becoming increasingly involved with
NEPA's day-to-day operations in response to the poor power supply
situation.
B.   Staffing and Personnel Management
2.05      NEPA's operations have long been affected by poor management and
poor utilization of its human resources. With about 32,900 employees
serving some 2.03 million customers, NEPA has an employee/customer ratio of
1:62 which represents a low level of effiLiency. While this ratio reflects
an improvement over previous years, it excludes the use of contractors, and
does not reflect an additional 6,500 authorized, but unfilled positions
which would lower the ratio to 1:51. Despite the excessive number of
employees, NEPA has never been able to achieve ar, appropriate skills mix
within the work force. While senior staff positions (managers,
supervisors, engineers, and technicians) make up 16X of the work force,
they account for 30X of total vacancies, and a majority of these are in the
critical engineer/technician categories. In contrast, large surpluses
exist at the lowest grades where approximately 28,000 unskilled and semi-
skilled workers are concentrated.



_ 13 -
2.06      NEPA's ability to recruit qualified senior and junior staff
continues to be constrained by the civil service salary structure which
imposes wage rates as low as ' third of those in the private sector for
comparable positions. Staffing problems are further compounded by weak
supervision and the imposition of civil service personnel policies which
make it extremely difficult to transfer, promote, and/or discipline
employees. In many cases, employees also lack the necessary skills and
knowledge required for their jobs. In addition, even when they have the
requisite skills, and are motivated and properly supervised, they
frequently lack the basic essentials (e.g., tools, equipment, fuel,
supplies, etc.) to perform their jobs satisfactorily. The combination of
all these factors had a damaging effect on NEPA's operational efficiency.
2.07      As part of an overall strategy to improve operational
efficiency, NEPA needs to streamline its work force. This will require
large reductions of lower level semi and unskilled personnel and, at the
same time, recruitment of appropriate numbers of skilled senior managerial,
supervisory and technical staff. In July 1988, the General Manager issued
orders to stop all further recruitment of staff except in special positions
with his approval. While this is a desirable first step, NEPA needs to
identify all redundant positions at various levels and systematically slim
down its staff according to a firm plan of action. NEPA recently
established a committee to review the staffing situation in the area of
electricity distribution (which accounts for about 702 of the total staff),
and to develop a rationalization program. An agreement has been obtained
from NEPA that it will complete by June 30, 1990, with assistance from the
utility partner (paras 2.23 - 2.25), an overall manpower development study
including an assessment of required positions at various levels, the
resultant redundancies and a plan of action to rationalize the staff to
required strength; NEPA will review the findings with the Bank and
implement them in a phased manner by December 31, 1991. In addition,
productivity and manpower cost control targets will need to be established
throughout the organization. During this time, efforts must also be made
to improve personnel management policies, manpower planning, employee
incentives (including salaries, benefits, and bonuses), work force
supervision, and employee discipline. A major objective in this area
should be to achieve autonomy from the civil service remuneration system to
permit the establishment of competitive salaries and benefits within NEPA.
At the same time, improvements in the workplace environment (e.g., tools,
equipment, supplies and materials) will have to be made to permit employees
to use their skills productively.
C.   Training
2.08      Since its inception in 1972, NEPA has had problems with regard
to the cap&a _lity and efficiency of its workforce.  These problems are
primarily the result of difficulties in recruiting qualified workers from
the labor market, and in upgrading the job qualifications of its existing
employees. To compensate for these workforce deficiencies, NEPA has always
maintained a Training Department both to prepare new employees for their
job assignments, and to upgrade existing workers so that they can become
more productive. The Training Department operates three training centers
at Ijora, Afam, and Kainji (two other centers at Kaduna and Jos are not yet
operational) under the supervision of a Director of Training who reports



- 14 -
directly to the AGM Administration. The training centers provide training
and job skills upgrading to mid-level technical and supervisory staff,
crafts and trades level employees and lower level non-technical employees
(e.g., secretarial and clerical). Training for non-technical staff (e.g.,
accounting, administrative and commercial operations) is usually conducted
by external training institutions and paid for through the Training
Department budget.
2.09      The strengthening of NEPA's training operations has been the
objective of several previous Bank and bilaterally financed projects during
the past decade. Despite extensive investments in training facilities,
training program development, and technical assistance to train both
employees and NEPA trainers, the benefits of training have been difficult
to measure in terms of increased worker efficiency and productivity (which
are frequently affected by non-training factors, e.g., low operating
budgets, poor supervision, lack of motivation, lack of tools and equipment
etc.). During recent years, however, the Training Department has shown
improvement in managing training activities under the supervision of a
professionally committed Director of Training. It has played an active
role in implementing NEPA's manpower development strategv despite problems
of inadequate budgets, inadequate facilities, and shortages of
instructional staff (presently being alleviated through greater
participation of line staff as short term instructors for specific
courses).
2.10      In order to further strengthen the operations of the Training
Department, and taking into account the experience of training investments
made under previous projects, the proposed Project will support
improvements in training facilities to permit greater emphasis on
practical/skills-oriented training activities (para 3.05). In addition,
the Project would provide technical assistance from original equipment
suppliers for improving the operational and maintenance practices of
generation facilities (para 3.04).
D.   Management Information Systems
2.11      NEPA suffers from poor internal communications and the lack of
timely information critical to effective management. Poor accounting and
financial reporting systems preclude performance setting and cost control
monitoring. Lack of m-aagement information systems, particulerly at the
corporate level, results in confusion, uninformed decision making,
increased costs, loss of control, no confidence in the reliability of
information, and a slow, reactive style of management. By any measure,
NEPA's operating environment is complex. Yet, most of the generally
accepted information systems in a typical power utility are either non-
existent in NEPA, or where provided, unreliable. Major automated systems
that are lacking include payroll, general accounting, materials management,
budget management, fleet management, personnel data, accounts payable,
property plant and equipment.
2.12      It is clear that the existing systems must be computerized as
soon as possible, utilizing wherever possible, proven software packages.
However, it is essential that appropriate policies, practices and business
procedures be developed in each functional area before a computerized



- 15 -
management information systems can be prepared in detail and implen.ented.
The utility partner under the project (paras 2.23 - 2.25) will assist NEPA
in developing (a) appropriate policies, practices and business procedures
including those for improved consumer billing, collection procedures arnd
accounting; (b) a comprehensive data processing plan; and (c) requirements
for personal computers and software, to be followed by an implementation
plan. The Project would provide assistance for improving data processing
(para 3.05). An understanding har been reached with NEPA that prior to
procuring personal computers and software, it will develop an action
program and requirements for improved billing and collection procedures and
accounting, the overall management information systems, and a data
processing plan, with assistance from the utility partner.
E. Accounting, Audit and Insurance
2.13      Accountinx.  NEPA maintains its books in accordance with
internationally accepted accounting practices. Accounts are kept on an
historical cost basis but foreign debt and transactions are revalued
annually at prevailing year-end exchange rates. Any exchange gains/losses
are treated in accordance with accepted international standards. Much of
the accounting is decentralized to the direct3rates which report monthly
figures to the headquarters for consolidation. NEPA prepares quarterly
financial and management statements and anuual operating and capital
budgets. As a result of inadequately trained staff, a defective
communication system, inadequate equipment, an ineffective budgetary
control system, and improper accounting procedures, NEPA's accounting and
reporting system is weak and its books do not provide a completely reliable
or accurate picture of the authority's financial position. The acquisition
of personal computers and application software as well as the necessary
technical assistance from the utility partner will assist NEPA in
addressing accounting and budgeting shortcomings.
2.14      Audit.  NEPA had agreed under Loan Nos. 1766 and 2085-UNI to
have its accounts and financial statements audited by acceptable,
independent auditors and to submit them to the Bank within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. NEPA has not been able to meet the six-month
deadline primarily because of the weakness in its Accounting Department
described above. Howevex, following recent efforts, audit reports through
1987, together with the long-form reports, have now been received. The
reports highlight NEPA's inability to reconcile inventory levels, accounts
receivable, the provision for bad debts and the imprest account balances.
As a result of a special dispensation granted by the Central Bank of
Nigeria (CBN), all foreign loans outstanding as of September 26, 1986 were
translated at concessionary rates ruling on that date, e.g. N1.6 = US$1.0.
.ae application of this rate created an exchange gain of about V1,450
million in 1987, which was credited to an exchange equalization reserve
account. However, about N955 million thereof relating to construction
work-in-process was not credited back to the projects. Under the proposed
Project, the requirement to submit future audited accounts within six
months of the year-end would be repeated. However, it will not be possible
for NEPA to meet this target for the 1988 accounts, and, therefore, a
phased approach for achieving a more timely preparation of the audited
accounts will be adopted. The following agreements have been obtained from
NEPA that it will furnish to the Bank: (a) its audited accounts and the



-  16
long-form report for 1988 by December 31, 1989, on the basis of historical
costs together with a separate Memorandum for Financial Planning on the
basis of revalued assets; (b) its audited accounts and the long-form report
for 1989 by June 30, 1990, on the basis of revalued assets using an
engineering valuation methodology; and (c) its audited accounts and the
long-form report for each year thereafter within six months of the close of
the fiscal year. Agreements have also been obtained that (i) the audited
accounts will be prepared at least every five years on the basis of
revalued assets using an engineering valuation methodology; and (ii) for
other years, NEPA will also prepare a separate Memorandum for Financial
Planning on the basis of revalued absets using a methodology satisfactory
to the Bank. NEPA's accounts will be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank in accordance with appropriate accounting principles
consistently applied.
2.15      Insurance.  NEPA maintains an extensive range of cover against
most utility risks. However, insured amounts have not been increased to
properly reflect replacement costs, and are now inadequate, particularly in
the light of the recent devaluations. A major significant omission is the
coverage for engineering risks, particularly boiler explosion, and for
fidelity risks. There is general fire insurance but not for fire caused by
short circuits. Furthermore, NEPA does not always eusure that liability
risks on plants under construction continue to be covered even after the
contractor's responsibility has expired. NEPA recently undertook a review
of its insurance practices to ensure the adequacy of insurance arrangements
but decided not to complete it until realistic values of its assets are
determined. An understanding has been reached with NEPA that it will (a)
complete a review of its insurance practices by March 31, 1990, taking into
account the realistic values of its assets; (b) determine, in consultation
with the Bank, the range of insurance cover it proposes to have against
various utility risks; and (c) implement the findings soon thereafter.
F.   Past Financial Performance and Present Position
2.16      Salient features highlighting NEPA's historical operating
results and present position are summarized in the table on the following
page, and are shown in detail in Annex 2-8.



- 17 -
Sunemary f N3P$ ' Sel1leted Cparatjiino Reau t
in Nr       on un  j o *r-  not
Actual                                 Et
[983           AeIuiZ 1=i-J
Electricity Sates (Widh)  6,106    5.487       ,.1S2       7,tiO       7.476   7,604
Average Tariff (Kobos/kWh)  7.0      7.4        7.2         7.0         7.1     7.1
Total Revenues           432         418        461         529         544      870
Operating Expenses pj
Operating I.Joie         62          tS48        Q,m
Net Income (after interest)  52      (5          18
Oper:ting Ratio (S)     85. 6       88. 8a as S               9        19.7    21.2
A:erogo Not Fi xed Assets
in O;errtion (ANFA) bj  1,SS?     1,639      1,78S       1,rR15       MOD0  7,719
Rate of RAturn on ANFA (W)  4 0      2 9         2.9        (0 8)         4     5 2
Debt Service Coverage Ratio    2.8  1.9         1.2         0.05                  3i
Annual Contribution to
Con-truction (8)      SO3.        24 7        22 S        31.8        (5.0)   (95.6)
Current Ratio            1.6        1.4         1.3         1.1         0.6    0.5
Oebt(Equity Ratio      76:24       79:21       63319     103: (-3)     66:14 i/ 28:62 Y/
Receivables (months)    U1.4        14.3        1.SS        13.5        18.7    15.4
Including depreciation on historicaly valued aeset eswopt in 1988.
Revalue,i in 1972 when NEPA was stabl,iahed. and eubequant addition- af* at original cost. for 1988. aesete were
revalued by Bank staff
Depreciation calculated on the basie of revalued assets.
Improvement due to the concesionary exchange rae bl.6 - US91.0 allowed by CN8 for ervicing of external debt
outstanding in September 1I88.
./   Improvement due to a revaluation of asets. It dome not reflect conversion of short-tore debt due to FPN into a
long-tere debt; after thie conversion, the debt/equity ratio will be 32:68.
2.17       NEPA's financial performance has deteriorated seriously in
recent years. Inadequate tariffs (which had remained unchanged since 1979
until the recent increase in June 1989), and limited sales due to the
economic downturn and poor asset maintenance have limited NEPA's revenues.
Poor billing and collection practices have deprived NEPA of its revenues
and have added to its liquidity problems. NEPA's operating income has been
negative since 1986, and it has not been able to meet debt service from
internally generated funds since 1984. As a result, NZEPA was forced to
severely cut back on almost all plant and equipment maintenance work,
leading to the current state of widespread equipment failure and system
breakdowns. Had NEPA carried out its normal maintenance during the past
four years, its financial performance could have significantly improved.
2.18       Under Loan Nos. 1776 and 2085-UNI, it was agreed that NEPA will
earn a minimum 8Z return on revalued net fixed assets in service.  Return
on assets, however, is presently not a meaningful performance indicator as
the assets have not been revalued to accurately reflect their increasing
replacement costs. However, even with significantly undervalued assets,
NEPA has generated low returns, which fell from 42 in 1983 to 2.92 in both
1984 and 1985, and have been negative since then. In 1988, NEPA's
operating expenses including depreciation on the basis of revalued assets
are estimated to be about 11OZ more than its revenues, and its cash flow
before depreciation is estimated to be a negative N127 million. As a
result, NEPA now has to rely on FGN to meet even its cash operating
expenses. NEPA has rundown its cash balances and is in arrears in payments
to its creditors. Consequently, many suppliers now only deal with NEPA on
a pre-paid cash basis. NEPA's capitalization as of December 31, 1987 is
summarized in the table on the following page.



- 18 -
Summary of NEPA - Capitalization as of December 31. 1987 a
US1 Million       Xof
Nair Million     Equivalent       Total
Assets
Net Fixed Assets in Operation      2,01B            338              27
Work In Progress                   4,168            693              57
O0,her Assets                        17              a               0
C;rrent Assets                     1 189            198             16
Total Assets                    7A.79          1 230             110
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                              764 bf         127               :0
Long-term Debt                    4,628 c/         765              62
Current Liab:lities                1,843 a/        307              26
Consumer Contributions              248             41               a
Total Equity and Liabilitie                     .230             100
a/   Figures may not add because of rounding
i/   Includes N256 million in paid up capital, N(946) million In retained earnings
(negative), and 11,494 million In exchange equalization reserve from the concessionary
exchange rate allowed by CON for servicing of external debt out-standing as of September
1956.
c/   Includes W2,630 million due to FGN and N1,998 million in external debt.
JJ   Includes b692 million due to FMi and 1349 million due to contractors.
2.19       By the end of 1987, NEPA was facing severe liquidity and
solvency problems, and had to rely on FGN for servicing of its external
debt and on non-payment of debt service to FGN on naira debt. It had a
negative working capital of N654 million in 1987 (a current ratio of on'v
0.6), and significant debt service arrears. The following four major
factors have contributed to NEPA's weak operating results:
(a) NEPA's tariffs have remained unchanged since 1979, while
its operating expenses have increased. For example, fuel costs increased
from N31 million in 1985 to 1160 million in 1987 and to an estimated N225
m-llion in 1988, and the cost of spares increased significantly in naira
terms in recent years due to the devaluation of the naira.
(b) NEPA's accounts receivable are very high--N737 million
equivalent to 16.7 months of sales at the end ox 1987, against an
achievable norm of three months of billings. Of these, N229 million or 31Z
of the total are due from the Government and its agencies; a Government
Committee is at present looking into the whole matter of cross-debts among
all parastatals and the Government and its agencies. A major cause of
NEPA's financial difficulties is the poor state of its billing procedures
and collection of revenues. Some 6Z of billings are written off annually
as bad debts, a level that is more than six times higher than in a properly
run utility. The remaining 94X of billings are expected to be ultimately
collected, but over a long period of time. Meanwhile, the delinquent
customers do not pay any delayed payment charge for late payments, and are
thereby encouraged to regard the unpaid amounts as an easy source of
credit.
(c) NEPA's system losses are very high--close to 35Z.
Technical losses are estimated at about 15S of the electricity generated



- 19 -
due to an inefficient and poorly maintained transmission and distribution
system. Non-technical losses &-count for the remaining ZOZ and are due to
poorly maintained meters, theft through direct connections to the lines,
underbillings through collusion between relatively underpaid meter readers
and customers, and in some districts, a cumbersome and slow billing
process.
(d) As a result of a severe liquidity problem, NEPA has been
unable to obtain spare parts for carrying out even routine maintenance, and
the condition of its plants has deteriorated badly, leading to frequent
system failures. It has limited NEPA's capacity to meet the electricity
demand and increase its revenues.
G.   Commercialization of NEPA
2.20      The organization and management of NEPA have been extensively
studied in recent years principally by consultants. While many oppor-
tunities for reforms were identified, no action was taken to implement them
and FGN has continued to maintain a close oversight of NEPA's operations.
In 1987, NEPA, in response to a Government request, submitted its proposals
for commercialization. In July 1988, FGN announced its decision to
commercialize NEPA as part of its broad reforms of the public enterprise
sector involving privatization and commercialization of some 135 paras-
tatals. The recommendations of a panel, established by FMMPS in September
1988 to advise on the implementation of the commercialization measures,
were submitted to the Government in November 1988. In addition, a Sub-
Committee of the Technical Committee for Privatization and Commercializa-
tion has examined NEPA's situation in more detail, and submitted its
findings and detailed proposals to the Government in March 1989. The
Government is currently reviewing these proposals and a decision on the
detailed scope of commercialization is expected soon.
2.21      The Government has clearly recognized the need for NEPA to
become a financially sound utility, and improve the efficiency of its
services to customers. The proposed Project will provide support for the
Government's efforts to achieve commercialization of NEPA. The
commercialization of NEPA will require giving it autonomy (e.g., in
personnel policies, salaries, procurement, and management of its financial
affairs, etc.), and making it accountable for its performance in return for
greater autonomy. As a revenue earning entity, NEPA should be financially
viable. The commercialization of NEPA is a prerequisite to a restructuring
of the power sector in order to make it responsive to market forces,
improve the environment in which NEPA functions, and increase incentives to
enhanced utility efficiency, which is crit'cal for a sustained recovery of
Nigeria's economy.  The Government's operational and financial objectives
for NEPA could be incorporated in a formal perforn...ce contract between the
Government and NEPA against which NEPA's achievements could be assessed.
Key performance objectives and targets for inclusion in such a contract,
which have been presented to FGN and NEPA in October 1988 by the Bank, are
given in Annex 2-2, and cover staffing levels and productivity, generation
plant availability, system performance, system losses, revenue collections,
financial performance, accounting and management information systems.
Details of a financial recovery program to be pursued under the Project are
discussed in paras 2.28 to 2.44.



- 20 -
2.22      An understanding has been reached with FGN and NEPA on the main
elements of the commercialization of NEPA to ensure that NEPA will become
self-reliant, have more autonomy and be accountable for its performance.
The following aRreements have been obtained: (a) NEPA will furnish to the
Bank the detailed proposals for its commercialization as soon as available;
(b) NEPA will discuss with the Bank the proposed performance contract to be
entered into between FGN and NEPA, and implement the commercialization plan
and the performance contract in a satisfactory manner; and (c) the
Government and NEPA will exchange views annually with the Bank on NEPA's
progress in meeting targets under the performance contract. In view of the
urgency to enhance the commercial orientation of NEPA's operations and
improve NEPA's financial health, the Government plans to implement quickly
the commercialization proposals as soon as they have been approved.
2.23      Utility Assistance Program.  The realization of the
institutional strengthening of NEPA would require new ideas, outside know-
how, and, therefore, large technical anid managerial inputs. NEPA would
benefit from an association over the medium-term with a mature power
utility, who would provide technical services for the overall strengthening
of NEPA, assist it in the implementation of the commercialization program,
and provide a range of technical and training support services.
Partnership or twinning arrangements with a mature utility in place of ad
hoc technical assistance provided under previous Bank and other donor
financed projects will effer many benefits to NEPA including operating
experience, integration of technical assistance with training, flexibility
to alter the work program over timc, and the possibility of long-term
cooperation. Yet, the success of such technical assistance will depend on
NEPA's commitment and willingness during project implementation to have
strong counterpart staff to absorb the know-how and learn from the
experience of the utility partner.
2.24      As discussed earlier, NEPA requires specialist assistance in
many areas:
Generation maintenance and rehabilitation programs and plant
failure analysis
Implementation of a coordinated system protection plan
System control, load dispatching functions and analysis of
system faults
Transmission maintenance and rehabilitation
Distribution operations
-    Maintenance management systems
-    Implementation of effective systems for procurement, purchasing
and inventory management
-    Implementation of programs for effective meter reading, billing
and collection systems
-    Development of a system loss reduction program
-    Implementation of sound financial systems and effective
financial maragement
-    Development of an effective management information system and
data processing plan
-    Internal audit



- 21 -
-    Development of a manpower plan including staff numbers and
levels, reward systems mnd training needs
-    Implementation of the commercialization of NEPA's operations in
general
-    Implementation of a pilot district program for efficiency
improvements
-    System planning, design and standards
2.25      The objective of technical assistance will be to help NEPA
ensure a continuous reliable supply of electricity at minimum cost without
having to rely on expatriate personnel in the long-run to the extent
possible. Essentially, the emphasis would be on team work and joint
participation by the staff of both utilities. The utility partner will
fill key positions where special skills are needed or where staff members
of NEPA are on training. The technical assistance would include short-term
assignments to address particular and specific needs, as well as long-term
technical assistance, and is estimated at about 40 man-years for the next
3 1/2 years ending 1992. The detailed work program between NEPA and the
utility partner will be agreed on an annual basis to maintain flexibility
in assistance to meet NEPA's needs and capabilities as they evolve. An
outline of arrangements for technical assistance under the utility
partnership program is given in Annex 2-3. Agreements have been obtained
from NEPA that it will (a) employ a mature utility as its utility partner
for technical assistance over the medium-term in various areas of NEPA's
operations covering technical, financial, managerial and administrative
matters, according to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; the
employment of the utility partner is a condition of loan effectiveness; and
(b) develop by June 30, 1990, with assistance from the utility partner, a
comprehensive maintenance strategy and plans for the power system, and
implement it thereafter taking into account the Bank's comments.
2.26      Pilot District Program for Efficiency Improvements.  Due to the
size and complexity of NEPA's operations and based on past experience, it
is considered desirable to implement efforts to increase workforce
productivity and efficiency of NEPA's operations, including implementation
of improved billing and collection systems, first in selected districts.
In the past, NEPA has had a satisfactory experience from the establishment
of a 'model district" in Lagos (Island District) between 1975 and 1979 with
assistance from Ontario Hydro, and financed by Canada. This model district
was set up to provide an example for other districts on ways to improve
both technical and commercial operations. During the four-year period of
its operation, the model district showed a marked improvement in system
operations and maintenance, commercial operations, and overall efficiency.
With the departure of technical assistance and Canadian financial support
in 1979, the model district regressed as NEPA management gradually lost
interest in the concept, operating budgets were reduced, tools and
equipment deteriorated or were lost, and staff morale declined.
2.27      The Project would provide assistance to NEPA in reestablishing,
with assistance from the utility partner, a pilot district program for
efficiency improvemenLs in selected districts on the basis of geographic
and technical considerations.  Its objectives are to develop, based upon
experience in selected districts, an operational model that can be
standardized for use throughout NEPA. An outline of the operational
objectives is given in Annex 2-4.



- 22 -
H.   Financial Recovery Program
1. Improvements in Billing, Collection and System Losses
2.28      Billing and Collection.  NEPA has already initiated a program to
improve its revenue collection with the recent reorganization of its
commerctal functions at the district level (para. 2.03), the introduction
of a pilot program for the collection of bills (bonuses for better
performance), and an improved coordination with the Data Processing
personnel to ensure that bills are accurately recorded, and promptly
delivered. The following agreements have been obtained: (a) from NEPA
that it will make adequate arrangements to ensu.re that as from July 1,
1989, electricity bills are paid by all customer3 including those from the
Government and all Government agencies within 60 days after billing; (b)
from the Government that it will take appropriate measures to ensure the
prompt payment of its own and all its agencies' electricity bills within
sixty days from the billing date beginning July 1, 1989; and (c) from NEPA
that it will (i) develop by December 31, 1989 an action program to improve
revenue collection, including improvements in the functions of the
Commercial Department, a strict policy for disconnections and reconnections
of delinquent customers, the requirement for security deposits from them
and stiff penalties for late payments, development of a management
information system for NEPA's commercial activities, and improvements in
the computerized system with adequate checks to enhance the quality of
bills; (ii) reduce the average age of accounts receivable to 8 months'
sales by December 31, 1989, 4 months' sales by December 31, 1990, and 3
months' sales by December 31, 1991, and maintain it thereafter at this
level; (iii) write off by December 31, 189, its bad debt as of December
31, 1988, which is deemed uncollectible, and install improved bill
collection procedures to reduce its provision for doubtful debts from the
current level of 62 to 42 in 1990, 3? in 1991, 2Z in 1992 and 1Z in 1993.
2.29      System Losses.  An agreement has been obtained that NEPA will
(a) develop by December 31, 1989 an action program to improve metering and
billing systems and to strengthen the transmission and distribution
systems; and (b) after taking into account the views of the Bank, implement
it thereafter so that overall system losses are reduced progressively to
202 by 1993 as given in para 2.30 below.
2.30      Annual targets for improvements in bill3-g and collection, and
system losses are summarized in the table belowt
Maximum                     Accounts Receivable
Technical & Non-technical                in terms of
Year                  Loss Level - 2                    Months' Sales
1988                        35                              15
1989                        31                               8
1990                        27                               4
1991                        24                               3
1992                        22                               3
1993                        20                               3



- 23 -
2. Revaluation of Fixed Assets
2.31      At the time of the merger of the ECN and the NDA in 1972, their
fixed assets were revalued by professional independent valuers and
transferred to NEPA. Since April 1, 1972, all fixed asset additions have
been included in NEPA's accounts at historic cost. In 1981, during
preparation of the Power VI project, NEPA agreed to develop indices to
provide an acceptable method of revaluing its fixed assets by December 31,
1982. However, this was not done because NEPA remained unconvinced of the
effectiveness of any of the proposed revaluation methods, citing the lack
of agreement and acceptance of such procedures among professional
accountants. Following the recent major devaluations of the naira, the
need for NEPA to revalue its fixed assets has become altogether more
critical. Based on macroeconomic indices, the cost of NEPA's net fixed
assets at current prices in 1988 would be about N13.4 billion compared with
about N2 billion without the revaluation (Annex 2-5). Consequently,
tariffs based on historic depreciation and rate of. return are totally
inadequate. NEPA's management has recognized the need, under the changed
circumstances, to revalue its fixed assets, and has already made
arrangements for the employment of consultants for the revaluation of
assets. Agreements have been obtained from NEPA that it will (a) complete
by December 31, 1989, the revaluation of its assets, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) continue to revalue its assets
thereafter as follows: (i) at least every five years on the basis of a
methodology using engineering valuation satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)
for other years on the basis of an agreed methodology so as to reflect
their current replacement value. Draft terms of reference for the
revaluation of fixed assets are given in Annex 2-6.
3. Capital Restructuring
2.32      As noted in paras 2.16 to 2.19, NEPA's capital structure is very
weak.  In 1986, NEPA's debt/equity ratio was 103/(-3).  The capitalization
of NEPA has been under review for some time in light of the continued
depreciation of the naira and its adverse impact on its debt service
obligations. NEPA was recently granted a special dispensation by CBN to
allow it to service all foreign loans outstanding in September 1986, at a
concessionary exchange rate of N1.6 = US$1.0 prevailing on September 26,
1986. As a result, NEPA's debt/equity ratio improved significantly from a
negative net worth in 1986 to 86/14 in 1987. The proposed revaluation of
its assets in 1988 will help recapitalize NEPA further, and its debt/equity
ratio is expected to improve to a favorable 28/62. However, because of
only a gradual improvement projected in its operating income in 1989 and
1990, NEPA will have difficulty in servicing its debt and financing its
investment program for a few years without some debt relief. NEPA owed to
FGN some N4,131 million including U3,045 million in long-term naira debt of
various maturities, and an estimated N1,086 million in current liabilities.
An agreement has been obtained from the Government that as a condition of
loan effectiveness, it will convert into equity and/or long-term loans all
of its naira loans (including short-term loans) owed by NEPA and
outstanding as of December 31, 1988. This will not involve any new
financial outlay from the Government. The financial projections for NEPA
(paras 2.43 and 2.44), however, conservatively assume only a rescheduling
into a long-term loan with a maturity of 15 years, including a three-year
grace period.



- 24 -
2.33      An agreement has also been obtained from the Government that it
will make long-term loans in 1989 (estimated at N1,294 million) and in 1990
(estimated at N347 million) to NEPA to help meet all NEPA's debt service
obligations for 1989 and to finance a part of its investment program for
1989 and 1990. Beyond 1990, NEPA's financial position is expected to
improve materially, and there should not be a need for any additional
Government financing.
4. Investment Program and Financing Plan (1989-93)
2.34      During the period 1989-93, NEPA's construction and
rehabilitation program based upon the minimum needs investment program
(par%s 1.30 - 1.33), is estimated to require about N10,447 million. Of
this, about N1,257 million or 12Z of the total is for the proposed project.
The sources of financing for NEPA's investment program covering the period
1989-93 are summarized in the table below, and details are given in the
funds flow statements in Annex 2-8.
NEPA's Financing Requirements and Sources (1989-93)
Naira
Million                 2 of Total
Requirements
Capital Expenditure
The Project                             1,257                      12
Other Investments                       9.190                      88
Total Requirements                  10,447                     100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                   13,972                     134
Less: Increase in Working
Capital a/                         2,830                     (27)
Debt Service                         (8.788)                     (84)
Contribution to Investment                  2,354                       23
Borrowings
Government Loans                      1,641                      16
Foreign Loans                         6.412                      61
Total Borrowings                 8,053                      77
Other (Grants)                                  40                       0
Total Sources                      1                          100
a/   Includes an increase in cash of 1179 million to restore NEPA's
liquidity to satisfactory levels.
2.35      Of the total requirements of N10,447 million, about N2,354
million or 232 of the total on average would be financed by NEPA from
internal cash sources after allowing for an increase in working capital and
debt service. The balance of N8,093 million would be financed from



- 25 -
borrowings except for a grant (about N40 million) which is expected to be
made available by ODA for the utility assistance program. Foreign loans
amounting to N6,412 million equivalent, including disbursements under the
Project, would finance about 611 of the total requirements. FGN would
financ3 about 16Z :f the total in long term loans to NEPA in 1989 and 1990
(N1,641 million).
5. Financial Obiectives and Electricity Tariffs
2.36      As noted earlier, electricity tariffs have remained unchanged
over a decade at about 7 koboslkWh, and as a result NEPA's financial
situation has been very weak. It has led to inadequate maintenance,
difficulties in supplying reliable power and a heavy burden on the
Government's budget. As an important step towards NEPA's commercialization
(e.g., to arrest the further de-capitalization of NEPA, improve its capital
base, promote economic efficiency, minimize farther drain on the budget,
and to set NEPA on the path towards financial health), the Government has
increased electricity tariffs as of June 1989 by almost 300% to an average
of 27.5 kobos/kWh. This should enable NEPA to begin to cover from revenues
all operating costs including depreciation on the basis of revalued assets,
Yet, the analysis shows that tariffs would need to be raised further tc
about 53 kobos/kWh to make NEPA financially independent and earn a rate of
return of 8% on its revalued assets. Since after the recent sharp increase
in tariffs in June 1989, it will be politically and socially difficu-lt to
raise tariffs further in one-step to the required levels, it is proposed
that NEPA moves towards financial self-sufficiency in stages.
2.37      The minimum financial obiectives for NEPA under a phased
approach would include the following:
(a) to meet from revenues in 1990, all operating expenses,
service its debt from internal funds and generate
internally adequate funds to finance at least 30% of the
annual investment program, and continue to achieve this
objective in each year thereafter;
(b) to earn annual rates of return on revalued net fixed assets
of not less than 6% in 1991, 72 in 1992, and 82 in 1993 and
thereafter;
(c) maintain beginning in 1991, a debt service coverage ratio
of at least 1.5, and not incur any debt unless a reasonable
forecast shows that the debt service coverage ratio in all
succeeding years will be at least 1.5; and
(d) maintain a maximum debt/equity ratio of 40:60.
2.38      To achieve the above objectives, electricity tariffs will need
to be increased in stages and in a timely manner. Based on financial
projections described in para 2.43 below, average tariffs would need to
increase from the present 27.5 kobos/kWh (since June 1989) to 37 kobos/kWh
in 1990, 43 kobos/kWh in 1991, 48 kobos/kWh in 1992 and 53 kobos/kWh in
1993.



- 26 -
2.39      An agreement has been obtained from the Government and NEPA that
they will take by January 31, 1990, all measures, including increases in
tariffs, so as to enable NEPA to finance in 1990 from internal funds at
least 30? of its annual investment program. For this purpose, an
understandinR has also been reached with NEPA that it will prepare and
furnish to the Bank by October 31, 1989, for an exchange of views with the
Bank its financial plans for 1990 in the form of projected income
statement, balance sheet, funds flow statement, and working capital
statement (para 2.44).
2.40      Agreements have also been obtained on the principles for annual
increases in tariffs for the period 1991-93: FGN and NEPA to take all
measures, including adjustments in tariffs, which will enable NEPA to (a)
earn an annual return of not 'ess than 62 in 1991, 7X in 1992 and 8? in
1993 and thereafter, of the average net value of its fixed assets in
operation, revalued in accordance with sound and consistently maintained
metheds of valuation satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) continue to generate
internally adequate funds in each year beginning in 1991 and thereafter to
finance at least 302 of its annual investment program.
2.41      The above tariff increasfes are based on an average price of
95.24/MCF for gas as of May 1989, with an annual escalation of 8?
thereafter. If NEPA's fuel costs were to change due either to changes in
fuel prices or changes in the pattern of generation, the financial position
of NEPA could change significantly. In order that such fuel cost increases
do not impact adversely on NEPA's financial position, an agreement has been
obtained that NEPA will incorporate beginning January 1, 1990 a fuel
adjustment clause in its tariff structure, which will provide for an
adjustment of electricity rates commensurate with changes in its fuel
costs.
2.42      Agreements have also been obtained from NEPA that it will: (a)
maintain in each year beginning in 1991, a debt service coverage ratio of
at least 1.5, and will not incur any debt in any fiscal year unless a
reasonable forecast shows that the debt service coverage ratio in 1991 and
in all succeeding years will be at least 1.5; and (b) not incur any debt,
if after incurring such debt the ratio of debt to equity dhall be greater
than 40 to 60.
6. Future Finances
2.43      Key assumptions used in the financial analysis of NEPA are given
in Annex 2-7. The projected financial statements (income statements,
balance sheets, funds flow statements and working capi';al statements) for
the period up to 1993 are given in Annex 2-8. A summary of forecast
operating results for the period 1989-93 is given on the following page.



- 27 -
NEPA - Forecast Oseratin, Results
(in Nara million, unless otherwise stated)
1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
Electricity Sales (GWh)     8,781      9,863      10,723     11,723     12,722
Average Tariff (kobos/kWh)  19.0 a/    37.1        43.2        48.3       62.6
Total Revenues              1,679      3,653       4,681      5,687      6,719
Operating Expenses b/       1,986      2,616       3,066      8,657      8,990
Operating Income             (287)     1,037       1,615      2,150      2,729
Operating Ratio (X)        117.1       71.6        6656       62.2        69.4
Return on Currently Valued Net
Fixed Assets in Operation (X) (1.7)     5           6          7          8
Debt Service Coverage Ratio  0.5        1.6         1.8        1.7         1.6
Internal Contribution to
Annual Investment (X)     (97.9)      30.0       41.6        32.6       35.9
Current Ratio               1.21       1.26        1.07       1.11        1.72
Debt/Equity Ratio          32:88       32:68      32:88       32:68      29:71
Receivable (months)            8          4           3          8          8
System Losses (X)             S1         27          24         22         20
Provision for Bad Debt (S)     6          4           a          2          1
pI Weighted average: 7.1 kobos/kWh for January-May 1989 and 27.6 kobos/kWh for June-
December 1989.
O Depreciation on the basis of revalued assets.
2.44      With the appropriate actions mentioned earlier, e.g.,
improvements in system losses and in billing and collection, capital
restructuring, revaluation of assets, and electricity tariffs, the
financial situation of NEPA is expected to improve significantly in a
steady manner. Operating income is expected to increase gradually from a
near break-even position in 1989 to N2.7 billion in 1993, and the operating
ratio is expected to decline from 117Z in 1989 to 59% in 1993. The debt
service coverage ratio is expected to improve from 0.5 in 1989 to 1.6 in
1990. 1.8 in 1991, 1.7 in 1992 and 1.6 in 1993. NEPA is expected to
generate internal funds adequate to finance at least 302 of its annual
investment program beginning 1990 compared with a negative contribution to
investment in 1989, which is the first year of the transition period.  The
liquidity position of NEPA is expected to become comfortable with an
increasing current ratio from 1.2 in 1989 to 1.7 in 1993. The debt to
equity ratio also remains satisfactory throughout the forecast period. An
agreement has been obtained from NEPA that it will prepare and furnish to
the Bank by October 31 of each year, starting in 1989 and up to 1993, for
exchange of views with the Bank, its financial plans in the form of
projected financial statements, for the next five years, and take
appropriate measures in a timely manner to maintain financial viability.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01       The provision of adequate and satisfactory power supply is
essential to the recovery of the Nigerian economy and, in particular, the
industrial sector. The Bank's long-term strategy is to assist the
Government in defining a clear power sector strategy and in effectively
implementating the necessary reforms including commercialization of NEPA,
improving operational efficiency and rationalizing investment priorities,



- 28 -
the financing of NEPA's investment program, and securing cofinencing.
However, a targeted Bank intervention is necessaLy at this time to (a)
enable NEPA to meet the needs of its consumers and make the requisite
contribution to the nation's recovery through reliable power supply; and
(b) assist in the longer term process of rationalizing the power sector,
and improving its efficiency.
B. Proiect Obiectives
3.02      The Project would (a) assist NEPA in carrying out much-delayed
maintenance and rehabilitation of selected generation, transmission and
distribution facilities, so as to improve the supply of power in the near
term; and (b) help establish institutional strengthening of NEPA and
provide the basis for a commercially viable entity, capable of delivering a
reliable and economic supply of electricity to its customers.
C. Project Description
3.03      The Project includes four components:  (a) maintenance and
rehabilitation component covering improvements in generation, transmission
and distribution, metering equipment, vehicles and assistance in the
conversion of the Egbin plant to gas; (b) institutional strengthening of
NEPA; (c) project management assistance; and (d) studies and future project
preparation assistance. A detailed project description is given in Annex
3-1, and the main elements are described below.
1. Maintenance and Rehabilitation Component
3.04      The maintenance and rehabilitation component includes five
subcomponents as discussed below:
(i) The generation improvements subcomponent would include (a) the
rehabilitation of seven units currently inoperable at the Sapele, Afam IV,
and Delta power plants (606 MW), and capital maintenance (major overhauls)
in a phased manner of ten units (850 MW) which are operating but are
overdue or will soon become overdue for major overhauls at Sapele ani Afam
IV; (bj the supply of running spares, repair of blades, and the supply of
consumables for two years for the above 16 units at Sapele and Afam; and
(c) technical services for operations, maintenance and training from
manufacturers of the above units to help ensure safe and reliable
operations of the units--72 man-months for Sapele steam boilers, 72 man-
months for Sapele steam turbogenerators, and 48 man-months each for the
Sapele and Afam gas stations. This subcomponent includes engineering
services for inspections, where needed, to define the precise scope of work
prior to the rehabilitation and overhauls of the units.
(ii)  The transmission improvements subcomponent would help diminish
system faults and interruptions through rehabilitation and maintenance of
the transnvission system. It would cover the following critical areas: (a)
parts sna   rvices for the overhaul of major 330/132 kV substations; (b)
replacement of 37 old airbiast circuit breakers, fault throwers in eight
critical locations, and 10-132 kV circuit breakers in critical locations by
SF-6 breakers; (c) spare parts for the power line carrier party line and
telex communication system; (d) radio equipment for improving
communications between major substations and service centers; and (e)



- 29 -
technical services for completion of selected 132 kV transmission lines and
associated substations in Lagos.
(iii) The distribution improvements subcomponent would strengthen
the distribution system in selected priority areas to overcome present
weaknesses and to maintain existing distribution facilities, and add about
370 MVA of distribution system capacity through the provision of (a) power
transformers (28--33/11 kV with a total capacity of 170 MVA), (b)
distribution transformers (140--33/0.415 kV with a total capacity of 50
MVA, and 400--11/0.415 kV with a total capacity of 150 MVA); (c) 33 kV and
11 kV switchgears; (d) high tension and low tension cables and joining
accessories; (e) overhead line materials; (f) protection, communication and
capital equipment components; (g) Raychem cable joining kits; and (h)
rechargeable lamps and district cummunication equipment.
(iv) The metering equipment subcomponent would include the supply of
about 20,600 consumer meters for services to new customers.
(v)   The vehicles subcomponent would supply about 320 standard and
special urgently needed vehicles together with spare parts for generation
(38 vehicles), transsission (52), distribution (227) and training (3).
(vi) The conversion of the Eabin plant to gas subcomponent provides
engineering services for the supervision and monitoring of the conversion
of the plant to gas.
2. Institutional StrenRthening of NEPA Component
3.05      The institutional strengthening of NEPA includes the following
subcomponents:
Ii)  Utility Assistance Progra:  NEPA requires new ideas, outside
know-how, and, therefore, large technical and managerial inputs. The
project would support an 'utility assistance program" for NEPA with a well-
known international utility company within a medium-term framework to
provide technical assistance (about 500 man-months) in various areas of
NEPA's operations (technical, engineering, financial, managerial and
administrative matters).
(ii) Data Processing: The project would provide personal computers
and software to improve consumer billing, materials management, general
accounting applications and MIS at the Headquarters, plants and
distribution centers.
(iii) Training: The operational capabilities of the Training
Department will be improved through support for (a) the relocation of the
overcrowded Ijora Training Center to another newly constructed building of
simple design in the Lagos area; (b) renovations and additions to the
Kainji and Afam Training Centers; (c) training equipment for the three
Training Centers; and (d) the acquisition of three buses for trainee
transport and auxiliary services (included under the vehicles
subcomponent).



- 30 -
3. Project Management Assistance Component
3.06      This component would provide engineering services (about 60 man-
months) for project implementation and management (project implementation
planning, scheduling, procurement assistance including preparation of
bidding documents and bid evaluation, supervision of maintenance and
rehabilitation work, cost control and other matters). Draft terms of
reference for the project management assistance are given in Annex 3-2.
4. Studies and Future Proiect Preparation Component
3.07      This component will provide consultancy services (about 100 man-
months) for studies to prepare a least-cost priority investment program
taking into account recent developments, and the preparation of feasibility
and other studies necessary for developing future investment projects for
external financing.
D. Project Implementation
1. Project Status and Management
3.08      Proiect Status.  In May 1987, the Bank had approved an advance
of US$1.5 million under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to finance
consultancy services for preparation of the Power VII project, and to
provide interim technical support to NEPA to improve electricity service.
NEPA has used this advance to finance consultants for trouble shooting
assignments and to prepare action programs for improvements in the
generation, transmission and distribution facilities so as to improve
electricity services. As the current project now replaces the Power VII
project, the validity of the PPF advance was extended by twelve months in
order to assist in the preparation of the current project. Discussions
with the original equipment suppliers are now at an advanced stage for
maintenance and rehabilitat!'n of the generation facilities. NEPA invited
proposals for project management assistance in April 1989, and the selected
engineering firm is expected to start services in about September 1989.
Substantial progress has been made towards the selection of the utility
partner. As mentioned earlier, the panel set up by FMMPS to develop an
action plan for commercialization of NEPA submitted its report in November
1988 for review by the Government. A Sub-Committee under the Technical
Committee for Privatization and Commercialization has examined NEPA, and
submitted to the Government its recommendations for commercialization of
NEPA in March 1989. The Government is currently reviewing the
commercialization proposals.
3.09      Project Management.  While each AGM will be responsible for the
component in his division, NEPA has established a Project Implementation
Coordination Team, under the direct supervision of the Managing Director,
with adequate authority to ensure effective planning, coordination and
monitoring of implementation of the overall project. The team is headed by
a full-time Director of Special Duties and comprise one other Director
(Generation Rehabilitation), five Chief Engineers and the Manager of
Finance. It will continuously review progress including procurement and
take timely action to remove any constraints affecting project
implementatior,.



- 31 -
3.10      In view of the rehabilitation nature and complexity of the
project involving several components, NEPA needs to employ experienced
engineering consultants to assist it in project management--one expert on a
full-time basis with specialized backing from the home office of the
selected engineering firm. The selerted engineering consultants are
expected to start project management assistance in about September 1989.
3.11      Implementation Schedule.  The maintenance and rehabilitation
component is expected to be completed by August 1992, and the utility
assistance program will be implemented over a period of about 45 months
(October 1989-June 1993). The overall project is expected to be completed
by June 30, 1993. The project implementation schedule is given in Annex 3-
3. The project schedule, which is different from the standard profile of
power projects, is achievable considering the maintenance and
rehabilitation nature of the project involving no major civil works and
erection compared with a greenfield power project.
2. Monitoring and Reporting Requirements
3.12      The proposed project would require careful coordination within
NEPA and frequent Bank supervision. The Directors of relevant departments
within NEPA will be responsible for physical works, e.g., improvements in
generation, transmission, and distribution systems. Monitoring of
institutional performance and the utility assistance program would involve
the Managing Director and relevant corporate directors. Overall
coordination and report preparation would be carried out by the Head of the
Project Implementation Coordination Team. An agreement has been obtained
that the Project Implementation Coordination Team will prepare quarterly
progress reports, covering the work of consultants, physical progress,
project cost, disbursements and administrative aspects of the Project as
well as institutional performance, and submit them to NEPA's Board, FMMPS,
the Bank and other financing agencies.
3.13      Agreements have been obtained that project accounts, the special
account, and the statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be audited annually
by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank according to acceptable
auditing standards. SOEs will be reviewed by the Bank on a regular basis.
In addition to the quarterly progress reports, agreements have been
obtained that NEPA will submit to the Bank and the cofinanciers: (a)
copies of all consultants, reports and studies financed under the proposed
project; and (b) a Project Completion Report within six months of project
completion.
E. Environmental Aspects
3.14      The Project involves only maintenance and rehabilitation work,
and will not, therefore, affect the environmernt adversely.
F. Proiect Capital Cost
3.15      The total project cost is estimated at US$154.6 million
equivalent including US$108.1 million equivalent or 702 of the total in
foreign exchange. The capital cost estimates are detailed in Annex 3-4 and
summarized in the table on the following page.



- 32 -
Summary of Capital Cost Estimate !/
Noira million                  USS million             X of
Local    Forei;n    Totl      Cocal     Foreign   Total      Totnl
Mainte,ance and Rehabilitation
Component
Generation Improvements                 116.6     840.8    457.4       16.9        49.4     86.8      42.9
Transmission Improvemants                38.5      91.1     127.6       6.3        13.2     18.6      11.9
Distribution Improvements                38.0      78.7     118.7       6.6        11.4     16.9      10.9
Metering Equipment                       11.7      24.2      36.9       1.7         3.5      6.2       3.8
Vehicles                                 64.9      66.2     120.1       9.4         8.0     17.4      11.3
Conversion of Egbin to Cas                0.7       2.0       2.7       0.1         0.8      0.4       0.3
Base Cost Estimate                    268.4     692.0     660.4      38.9        86.8    124.7      80.6
Physical Contingency                         9 9.7    24.2      83.9       1.4         3.6      4.9       3.2
Price Contingency S/                        73.4     162.7     236.1       2.9         6.4      9.3       8.0
Subtotal                              361.6     778.9   1,130.4      43.2        96.7    138.9      89.8
Institutional Strengthening
Component
Utility Assistance Program               11.0      41.4      62.4       1.8         8.0      7.6       4.9
Date Processing                           3.6       6.9      10.4       0.5         1.0      1.6       1.0
Training                                  3.5       6.9      10.4       0.6         1.0      1.6       1.0
Subtotal                               18.0     56.2       73.2       2.6         8.0     10.6       6.9
Price Contingency Sl                         4.8      14.6      19.4       0.1         0.8      0.7       0.O
Subtotal                               22.8      69.8      92.6       2.7         8.6     11.3       7.4
Project Management d/                        2.7       7.9      10.6       0.3         1.0      1.3       0.8
Studies & Future Project
repara8-tion J97-                           2.8      10.6      18.2       0.8         1.3      1.6       1.0
Refinancing of PPF Advance                    -       10.4      10.4        -          1.6      1.6       1.0
Total Project Cost                      879.6  /  877.8   1.257.2      4e.6       108.1    164.6     100.0
a/ Base cost and physical contingencies (in January 1989 prices) have been calculated using an exchange rate of
ke.9 = USS1.00.
b/ 6X of base cost estimate excluding: (I) a total of US811.4 million for running spores and consumables, and for
consultancy services for operstlons, maintenance and training under the generation improvements subcomponent;
and (ii) a total of USS17.4 willion for vehicles.
c/ Totae  price contingency (as 'i of base cost estimate and physical contingency) is estimated at about 7.2% when
costs are expressed in US dcllar and about 28.4% when coats are expresned in naira.
d/  Includes contingencies.
e/  Includes about 1230 million In duties and taxes.



- 33 -
3.16      The base cost estimates are in January 1989 prices, and are
based on (a) the estimates of NEPA follc-ing information submitted by
manufacturers; and 'b) the Bank's own cost information obtained from
potential suppliers. Physical contingencies for the maintenance and
rehabilitation component are calculated at 5? of the base cost estimate; no
physical contingencies are included for (i) running spares and consumables,
and for consultancy services for operations, maintenance and training under
the generation improvements subcomponent, and (ii) vehicles. For base cost
and physical contingencies, the exchange rate of N6.9 = US$1 has been used.
For the calculation of price contingencies, it is assumed that exchange
rate adjustments will, on average, be made to maintain "purchasing power
parity." On this basis, price escalation for both foreign and loca' costs
(a) when expressed in US dollars, is based on expected international annual
inflation rates (trade weighted for Nigeria) of 7.7Z in 1989, -1.2Z in
1990, 1.4? in 1991, 1.72 in 1992 and 3.3? in 1993; (b) when expressed in
naira, is based on domestic inflation of 152 in 1989, and 10? p.a. in 1990-
1993.
3.17      The maintenance and rehabilitation component accounts for about
9OX of the total project cost, and the institutional strengthening, project
management, and studies and future project preparation components account
for the remaining 102. The cost estimates include about 1,550 man-months
of services for maintenance and rehabilitation improvements, operational
assistance, project management, institutional strengthening and studies and
future project preparation.
G. Financina Plan
3.18      The proposed Bank loan of US$70 million equivalent would meet
about 64.8? of the total foreign exchange and 55.3? of the total financing
(net of taxes) required.  The proposed financing arrangements are
summarized in the table below.
Financing Plan
(in US$ million equivalent)
X of
Local     Forelon      Total      Total
IBRO                                -          70.0       70.0       45.8
Federal Republic of Germany
Commodity Aid                   -          16.4        15.4       10.0
KfW Loan                         -          9.1         9.1        6.9
UK - ODA Grant                      -           6.0        6.0        3.2
Suppliers' Credit                   -           8.6        8.6        5.6
NEPA (Internal Funds)             20.6           -         20.5       13.2
Governe-nt Loan                   26.0           -         28.0       16.8
Total                     46.5 !/     08.1I      154.6      10.0a
I/ Of this USS28 million Is for duties and taxos.
3.19      The proposed Bank loan will be made to NEPA at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for 20 years including 5 years of grace
with a commitment charge of 0.752. NEPA will bear the foreign exchange
risk. There will be a Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the Federal
Government of Nigeria.



-34  -
3.20       About US$38.1 million equivalent of cofinancing is required to
cover the remaining foreign exchange cost for tue project. The Federal
Republic of Gerraany has offered US$15.4 million equivalent in Commodity Aid
repayable over 40 years, including 10 years grace, at 3? interest to
finance goods for the maintenance and rehabilitation of the generation and
transmission facilities, and US$9.1 million equivalent in KfW loan
repayable over 10 years, including a grace period of abouL 18 months, at
8.082 interest and a commitment fee of 0.3752 to finance maintenance and
rehabilitation of boilers at the Sapele power station. The Overseas
Development Administration (ODA), UK, is favorably considering to provide
about US$5 million equivalent in a grant for financing of the utility
assistance program. The foreign exchange cost of vehicles (US$8.6 million
equivalent) is assumed to be financed through suppliers' credit. NEPA will
finance US$20.5 million equivalent in local costs from internally generated
funds. The :emaining amount of US$26.0 million equivalent to cover local
cost expenditures in 1989 and 1990 would be financed by the Government on
loan terms to NEPA (long-term debt with a maturity of 15 years, including 3
years of grace and at market interest rates). A condition of loan
effectiveness will be the effectiveness of cofinancing from the Federal
Republic of Germany (Commodity Aid and the KfW loan) and the ODA grant for
the utility assistance program, which are critical to the implementation of
the project and its success.
H.         Procurement
3.21       The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
Procurement
International        Direct
ICe          Shopais           Contrsctin     Other !b _/       Total
-------------------------tIn USS m illion equivalent)  --------------
Equipment. Materiel  Spares
- Generation improvements                       -             34.9 (16.7)     13.8         48.2 (16.7)
- Transmission improvements    6.5 (0.5)        -              8.7 (8.0)       4.4         14.6 ( 9.6)
- Distribution improvements   12.9 (12.9)       -               -              6.2         19.1 (12.9)
- Metering equipment         S.9 ( 8.9)         -               -              1.9          5.8 (3 9)
- Vehicles                                      -              8.5            19.1         18.7
- Data processing            0.8 (0.8)       *.8 (0.8)          -              0.6          1.6 (1.1)
Training equipment         0.9 (0.9)      0.2 (0.2)          -              0.6          1.6 (1.1)
Engineering and Consultancy
Services
- Generation improvements       -               -               -             21.0 (11 8)  21.0 (11. 8)
- Transmission improvements     -               -               -              6.2 ( 4.7)   6.2  (4.7)
- Conversion of Egbin plant     -               -               -              0.4 ( 0.3)   0.4 (0.3)
to gas
- Project management            -               -               -              1.3 (1.0)    1.3 (1.0)
- Operations, maintenance and
training (generation)       -               -              -               4.9 (3.8)    4.9 (3.8)
- Utility assistance program    -               -               -              8.1 (1.4)    8.1 (1.4)
- Studies and future project
preparation                 -               -              -               1.6 (1.3)    1.6 (1. 3)
Refinancing of PPF Advance      -                                              1-_  -  -   1.5 (1.6)    1.6 (1.6)
Totel                   25.0 (26.0)     0.5 (0.6)        47.2 (18.7)      81.9 (25.8)  154.6 (70.0)
a/ Consultancy services will be procured using Bank procedures
E/ Includes duties and taxes (US428.0 million equivalent) and other local costs,
Note: Figures in parentheses are items financed by Sank loan.



_ 35 -
3.22      Equipment and material, financed by the Bank, will be procured in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines through international
competitive bidding (ICB) except in cases where international shopping and
direct contracting are more appropriate.  Ordere for small items under
contracts with an estimated value of up to US$100,000 each for data
processing and training may be procured through international shopping with
price quotations from at least three qualified and eligible suppliers up to
an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million equivalent. Direct contracting will
be used for spare parts and components (up to an aggregate amount of
US$15.7 million equivalent) for the rehabilitation and overhaul of gas
turbines, steam turbines and boilers with the original equipment suppliers
to ensure that the supplier is responsible for guaranteeing the performance
of the plant after rehabilitation. The training of local personnel is also
best achieved by having this responsibility assigned to the original
equipment suppliers. In addit40n, proprietary spare parts for improvements
of the transmission system may be procured through direct contracting up to
an aggregate amount of US$3 million eouivalent. Packages over US$100,000
each will be subject to prior Bank review, and packages below US$100,000
each will be subject to ex-post reviews by the Bank. Consultants for
engineering services, and technical assistance financed by the Bank will be
contracted in accordance with Bank guidelines for use of consultants. For
the rehabilitation and maintenance of the generation facilities, NEPA plans
to use the services of the original suppliers of equipment and technology
to ensure proper performance after rehabilitation and sustaining
performance guarantees. NEPA's approach is considered appropriate. All
contracts for services will be subject to the Bank's approval prior to
signature. To proceed with the necessary preparation work and to avoid
delays in project execution, the Bank loan will retroactively finance up to
US$7 million of eligible expenditures after October 1, 1988, for generation
improvements, engineering supeLvision services for conversion of the Egbin
power plant to gas, and project management assistance. To expedite
procurement, an understanding has been obtained that NEPA will use standard
bidding documents for procurement under the Bank loan.
I.   Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan
3.23      The proposed allocation of the Bank loan is summarized in the
table on the following page.



- 36 -
Bank Loan Allocation
(in US$ million equivalent)
1.   Equipment. Materials and Spares
(a)  Generation improvements             14.0 )   10O  of foreign
(b)  Transmission improvements            7.5 )  expenditures
(c)  Distribution improvements           11.5 )
(d)  Metering                             3.9 )
(e)  Data processing                      1.0 )
(f)  Training                             1.0 )
2.   EnRineerina and Consultancy
Services
(a)  Generation improvements             10.8 )  10O  of foreign
(b)  Transmission improvements            4.0 )   expenditures
(c)  Assistance f,r conversion            0.3 )
of the Egbin plant to gas               )
(d)  Proje.. management                   1.0 )
(e)  Operations, maintenance and          3.8 )
training (geveration)                   )
(f)  Utility assistance program           1.4 )
(g)  Studies and future project               )
preparation                         1.3 )
3.  Refunding of PPF Advance              1.5
4.  Unallocated                           7.0
70.0
3.24      The Bank loan will cove- 100Z of foreign expenditures for
directly imported goods, and eny neering and consultancy services. The PPF
advance of US$1.5 million will be refinanced under the proposed loan. To
facilitate disbursements, a special account will be established in US
dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank with an authorized allocation of
US$5 million, equivalent to an average disbursement for about four months.
Disbursements will be against full documentation except for contracts
valued less than US$100,000 equivalent each, which would be against
statements of expenditure. Documents in support of statements of
expenditures will be retained by NEPA and made available to the Bank for
review during supervision missions. An estimated disbursement schedule for
the Project, along with disbursement profile of power projects completed in
the Region, is given in Annex 3-5. The expected disbursement of the
proposed Bank loan is faster than the standard profile since the Project
coneists of maintenance and rehabilitation, involving essentially a large
number of activities of short duration, and given that NEPA will be
assisted by consultants in implementing the Project, the proposed
disbursement schedule is realistic. The loan closing date will be
December 31, 1993.



- 37 -
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01      Justification.  The Project is part of NEPA's medium-term system
development program for the power sector, and accounts for about one-eighth
of the total investment cost. The program as a whole is intended to
correct the long-standing imbalance between demand and supply for
electricity in the country, through investments in generation, transmission
and distribution, aimed at improving the utilization of existing assets
through maintenance and rehabilitation, and expanding the system
capability. The proposed Project will help improve the utilization of
existing assets by bringing into operation some of NEPA's currently
inoperable plant and equipment, and by strengthening the transmission and
distribution system on a selective basis. A portion of NEPA's large
capacity, created at considerable cost, is at the moment unutilized and in
a state of disrepair. In addition, there are many units which are
operating but are overdue or will soon become overdue for major overhauls.
As a result, NEPA is unable to fully cope with the load on its system. By
rehabilitating existing generating capacity together with critical
improvements in transmission and distribution facilities, a marked
improvement in NEPA's ability to deliver power could be brought about at a
relatively modest cost. If the overhaul and repair of many units is
delayed much further, eventual costs of rehabilitation will become
significantly higher than at present, and power shortages will increase,
thereby limiting economic recovery.
4.02      By bringing on stream, and within a relatively short time,
additional generating croacity at a fraction of the investment cost of new
equipment 1/, the Project constitutes the first step of the least-cost
solution to meeting the anticipated increase in demand for electricity in
Nigeria over the next decade.  Strengthening of the transmission and
distribution systems, and improved maintenance practices under the Project
will also help reduce forced outage rates.  The Project will restore 606 MW
of currently inoperable capacity, and overhaul 850 MW of currently
operational capacity which is overdue or will soon be overdue for capital
maintenance. This increase should provide NEPA with a "breathing space" in
which to undertake planned maintenance of other plant and equipment, and to
reorganize the power system so as to improve its stability and reliability.
4.03      The institutional strengthening component of the Project, though
small in terms of costs, will help improve NEPA's operational efficiency
over the medium-term, and assist in the transformation of NEPA into a
commercially viable entity. The proposed utility assistance program will
provide NEPA with valuable technical assistance on an on-going basis, in
all areas of operations. The provision of data processing equipment would
help improve NEPA's billing and materials management capability.
4.04      The total capital expenditure program (1989-93), as set out in
Annex 1-2, is similar in content to the program for 1988-92, envisaged at
1/   The cost of rehabilitating/overhauling generating units at Sapele and
Afam under the project is about US$40/kW, as against the estimated
US$530/kW for constructing the Egbin plant.



- 38 -
the time of the previous appraisal mission for the Power System Improvement
Project (Power VII), which did not materialize (para 1.39); it includes
appropriate adjustments for changes in timing and project composition. The
program will augment NEPA's generation capacity sufficiently to meet the
anticipated load growth up to 1997, with appropriate increase in
transmission and distribution capacity. Apart from the project itself, the
program is justified for the following reasons:
(a)  The Shiroro hydro project largely represents a sunk
investment. Completion of the plant will add some 2,000 GWh
of average year output to system availability, and displace
more costly thermal output.
(b) The 330 kV transmission extensions are justified for system
security reasons.
(c) Investments for improving generation and transmission
equipment, and for system control are required to improve
the quality of NEPA's service. The expected growth in
system load makes this an even greater priority.
(d)  Investments in data processing equipment, metering and
vehicles are necessary to maintain the normal working
efficiency of the system and of NEPA's commercial
operations. Some investments in these components are
included in the project itself; the balance would be
undertaken over the duration of the program.
(e) Investments in the 132 kV transmission and distribution
components are necessary to reduce the possibility of
overloading existing distribution stations, especially in
light of the anticipated increase in load over the
forseeable future.
4.05      Economic Costs and Benefits.  Details of the economic analysis,
including a summary of system economic costs and benefits, are given in
Annex 4.  As mentioned above, the Project is part of the least-cost
development program for the power sector in Nigeria (paras 1.30 - 1.35).
The economic rate of return of the project is accordingly estimated from
the incremental costs and benefits of the program. The increments are a
function of the scenario that would prevail if no =dhabilitation,
improvement or development of NEPA's power system were to take place, e.g.,
the "future without program". Such a scenario would assume that the only
increase in generation would be on account of the conversion of the Egbin
thermal plant to gas, which would enable it to utilize all of its six
units. The completion of Shiroro, the rehabilitation of the Sapele and
Afam IV units, and the construction of the Delta IV plant (along with
investments in complementary transmission and distribution facilities to
handle the increase in generation) would not--under this scenario--take
place. Incremental costs, therefore, represent the difference in total
system costs, including capital expenditures, operations and maintenance
costs, and fuel, in the 'with' and 'without' program scenarios.
Incremental benefits, similarly, represent the difference between the value



- 39 -
of total served demand for power between the two cases and also take into
account the reduction in system technical losses.
4.06      Power system investment costs are valued at January 1989 price
levels, and exclude all local taxes and duties. A standard conversion
factor of 0.84 is used to adjust the local cost component. An exchange
rate of US$1 = 16.9 has been used. Incremental operating and maintenance
costs are estimated at 2.52 of cumulative investment costs each year.
Incremental fuel costs/savings are estimated on the basis of the projected
energy balance 'with" and "without" program. Incremental benefits are
derived from the increase in served demand that would result from
implementation of the program.
4.07      Despite the recent increase in tariffs (p&ra 2.36), the existing
level of tariffs is still out of line with the resource costu of supplying
electricity. Therefore, the increase in served demand is valued on the
basis of the minimum tariffs envisaged to ensure the fulfillment of NEPA's
financial objectives agreed during negotiations (para 2.38). Under this
scenario, nominal tariffs would rise from 27.5 kobos/kWh at present
(effective June 1989) to 53 kobos/kWh by 1993. After adjustments for
converting nominal tariffs in constant January 1989 prices, they have been
used in the economic analysis as a minimum estimate of the electricity's
benefit to the consumer.  On this basis, the econoric rate of return for
the development program (1989-93) is estimated at 18.42, which exceeds the
opportunity cost of capital (about 12Z), indicating that the proposed
investments are justified economically.  This estimate is   conservative,
as it assumes that in the absence of the development program, there would
be no deterioration in NEPA's ability to supply power. This is an
optimistic assumption, since in the absence of an increase in available
generating capacity, and given the anticipated increase in load, NEPA would
in fact find it increasingly difficult to shut down units for planned
maintenance, with a resultant increase in risk of unplanned shutdowns and
system failures. In that event, the economic benefits of the development
;          program would be correspondingly larger, and economic returns higher.
4.08      Electricity tariffs used in the economic analysis do not reflect
the considerable consumer surplus that prevails in the power sector in
Nigeria. It is likely that the consumer surplus is substantial on the
basis of observed reactions to power shortages and outages. As detailed in
Annex 4, a large diesel autogeneration capacity has been established in the
country because of the poor electricity supply. The cost of electricity
from autogeneration is estimated to range between 51 kobos/kWh and
N1.01/kWh for various configurations of the diesel autogenerators.
Therefore, a large number of industrial and commercial users as well as
more affluent households should be willing to pay considerably more than
NEPA's tariffs. Tariff levels in Nigeria's neighboring countries are even
higher. Using 40 kobos/kWh (USo5.8 kWh) and 50 kobos/kWh (US07.2/kWh) to
capture part of the consumer surplus in a sensitivity analysis, gives
economic rates of return of 22Z and 282, respectively, which demonstrate
that the proposed new investments are clearly justified economically.
4.09      Risks.  There are no unusual risks associated with the proposed
project. The risk of possible delays in project implementation has been
minimized through the establishment of a Project Implementation



- 40 -
Coordination Team in NEPA. and the provision of specialists to assist in
project management. In view of the rehabilitation nature of the project,
there is the possibility that project costs may exceed the estimates.
However, the project design is such that should this occur, the scope of
the work may be decreased to accommodate the funds available with little
detrimental effect upon the completed portion. As for the risk related to
the achievement/sustainability of institutional improvements, FGN is fully
committed to strengthening the power sector, and recent changes in the
attitude towards the importance of reliable and efficient power supply and
management of NEPA and parastatals in general should ensure political
support for the process. The prospects of new actions to improve the
performance of NEPA are, therefore, now brighter than before. The presence
of strong technical assistance through the utility assistance program
should also minimize this risk. Finally, annual reviews by FGN and the
Bank of NEPA's achievements would provide a framework to ensure
satisfactory implementation of the institutional aspects of the proposed
project.
V. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreements have been obtained on the
following:
(a) reviews every year on NEPA's rolling investment program for
the next five years (para 1.34);
(b) preparation by June 30, 1990, of (i) a manpower development
study and implementation of findings in a phased manner by
December 31, 1991 (para 2.07); and (ii) a comprehensive
maintenance strategy and plans for the power system, and
implementation thereafter (para 2.25);
(c) arrangements for audit of financial accounts (para 2.14),
reporting and auditing of project accounts, special account
and statements of expenditure (paras 3.12 and 3.13), and
procurement and disbursement (paras 3.22 and 3.24);
(d) NEPA's commercialization plan including a performance
contract, and annual reviews of performance (para 2.22);
(e) NEPA to make adequate arrangements to ensure that as of July
1, 1989, electricity bills are paid by all customers
including those from the Government and all Government
agencies within 60 days after billing; and the Government to
take appropriate measures for payments of electricity bills
by its agencies within sixty days from the billing date
beginning in July 1, 1989 (para 2.28);
(f) improvements in revenue collection and accounts receivable,
and writing off of bad debt deemed uncollectible (para
2.28); and reduction of system losses (para 2.29);



- 41 -
(g) revaluation of 1988 assets by December 31, 1989, and annual
revaluation thereafter (para 2.31);
(h)  FGN to provide to NEPA necessary funds in a timely manner in
long-term naira debt in 1989 to help meet NEPA's debt
service obligations and finance a part of NEPA's investment
program, and in 1990 to finance NEPA's investment program
(para 2.33);
(i) FGN and NEPA to take by January 31, 1990 all measures
including increases in tariffs so as to enable NEPA to
finance in 1990 from internal funds at least 30? of its
annual investment program (para 2.39);
(j) NEPA (i) to earn at least 6?, 7?, and 8? rates of return on
revalued net fixed assets in 1991, 1992 and 1993,
respectively; (ii) to continue to generate internally
adequate funds each year beginning in 1991 to finance at
least 30? of its annual investment program (para 2.40);
(iii) NEPA to incorporate a fuel adjustment clause in its
tariff structure beginning January 1, 1990 (para 2.41);
(iv) to maintain in each year beginning in 1991, a debt
service coverage ratio of at least 1.5, and not to incur any
debt unless the projected debt service coverage ratio is at
least 1.5; and (v) not to incur any debt if its debt/equity
ratio will be greater than 40:60 (para 2.42); and
(J) NEPA to prepare and review with the Bank every year its
financial plans in the form of projected financial
statements for the next five years, and to take timely
measures to maintain financial viability (para 2.44).
5.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a) employment of a utility partner for technical assistance to
NEPA in various areas of its operations according to terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.25);
(b)  conversion by FGN into equity and/or in long-term loans all
of its naira loans (including short-term loans) owed by NEPA
to FGN as of December 31, 1988 (para 2.32); and
(c) effectiveness of cofinancing from the Federal Republic of
Germany (commodity aid and the KfW loan), and the ODA grant
from the U.K. for the utility assistance program (para
3.20).
5.03      During negotiations, understandings have been reached with (a)
FGN and NEPA on the main elements of the commercialization of NEPA to
ensure that NEPA will become self-reliant, have more autonomy and be
accountable for its performance tpara 2.22); (b) NEPA that prior to
purchasing personal computers and software, it will develop an action
program and requirements for improved billing and collection procedures and
accounting, the overall management information system and a data processing



- 42 -
plan (para 2.12); (c) NEPA on a review of its insurance practices by March
31, 1990 and the implementation of findings soon thereafter (para 2.15);
(d) NEPA to prepare and furnish to the Bank by October 31, 1989, for an
exchange of views with the Bank, its financial plans for 1990 in the form
of projected income statement, balance sheet, funds flow statement and
working capital statement (para 2.39); and (e) NEPA to use standard bidding
documents for procurement under the Bank loan (para 3.22).
5.04      On the basis of the above agreements reached, the Project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$70 million equivalent to the National
Electric Power Authority (NEPA) with a guarantee of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for twenty years,
including a five-year grace period and a commitment fee of 0.75Z.
AF4IE
July 1989



NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Installed Capacity. Generation. Sales, Staff and Consumer Data (1977-1967)
1977     1978     1979     1980     1981      1982     1983       1984     19 6     1986     1987
Installed Generation Capacity (MW)   1,071    1,646    1,978    2,171    2,463      2,772    2,657     3,178    8,051    4,818    4,852
Systm Maximum Demand (MW)              794      989    1,193    1,186    1,826      1,461    1,486      1,588    1,712    1,811    1,855
Energy Generaetd (Gnh)               4,611    6,219    6,623    5,808    7,822      8,686   8,718      9,038   10,383  10,627   11,220
EneraZ Sales (g2h)
- Resdential                       1,646   2,100    1,644    2,180    2,724       8,018    8,188     2,861    8,186    4,176    4,288
-  Commercial                        708      762      677       774      753       603      742       715      760       742      761
-  Industrial                      1.439    1.30    1.404    1.749    2.160       2.296    2.22      1.911    2.216    2.448    2.492
Total Sales                    8,792    4.168    8.926    4.865    5.827      5.918    8.108     5.487    6.162    7.880    7.476
Number of Consumers ('000)             708      829       964    1,071    1,221     1,880    1,657     1,674    1,841    1,970    2,026
Number of Staff                     16,464   16,870   18,172   19,478   19,888    22,445   27,470    28,027   81,049   82,474   82,912
Percentage Staff Increase ()          18.0      6.9      11.0      7.2      1.9      18.8     22.8       2.0    10.8        4.6      1.8
No. of Consumers par Employe          45.8     60.6      68.0     66.0     61.8      61.4     66.0      59.7    69.8       60.7     61.6
No. of Employees:
-  per OWh Sales                     4.1      8.9      4.6      4.2       8.6       8.6      4.6       5.1      5.1       4.4      4.5
-  per MW Installed Capacity        14.4     10.0      9.2      9.0       8.0       8.1      9.6       8.8      0.5       7.5      7.1
Source: NEPA
AF4IE
November 1988
I AF41E127/ANNEX1 -1



NICERIA - POISR SYSTEM MAIENTBAPCE 410 RB4hqIL,TL         P20JE
Suer- if Cmi el Ee enditur PrC t. .IB9-1993S  *I
(~-fn curren 6 a.  .0.1)eo
1  Th  Project                           3        22         25        23       49         72        16       29         45       4         8         It        I         1        2       47       108       1SS
2. Other Invteete
S30 hV   ana=ieaion Et ..ion                                        6       17         23        16       47         65       16       44         60        5        13       1i        48      121       166
132 kV Tranaei.ion  Eutension                                      5       11          is       15       S1         46       14       Si         4S        4         7       Is       39        80       119
Distribution lprov,ente                                            S        6           a       13       20         33       23       35         58       13        20       33        53       80       133
Vehitcl ea                                                                                                20         27        a       16         24        3         a       11        IS       46        61
Date Processing                                                                                   1        5          7        1        4          5        0         1        2         3       10        13
Met.u'ina                                                           I        3          4         4       10         14        a       13         18                                     9       26        3S
Coneltncy Services                   2         2          4         2        2           4        2        2          4                                                                  6        6        11
National Control Center                                             3        9          12                                                                                               S        9        12
Training                                                                                          2        1          3        2        1          2        1         0         1        5        2         7
Coeplton o Shirofo/                  8        20         26        14       30          44       1I       30         41        4        S          9                                    j?       as       122
Trmn_omie   IXmproveuwte            _         _         _          _        _          -         12       30         40      iL       A    -9    .         29 .o              .9 so     51              .20
Subtft.el                      13        44         57        56      126         1b2       90      226        324      9s       218        312      46       111       1T7      310       724     1.034
Oelt IV S/                          II        40         64        1       j.    45            .1       s            -a      -a       -1        _.         -        -        _         _.2      1U       __
Total                          37        84        ;21        72      1S6        227       111      251        862      I05      233        337       46       1II      187       372 1/   634     1.206
1    Fiaure  way not add because of rounding.
About 80S of the projoect haa slroady been complted.
v   600 W Gas Turbine Poer Station. The output of thie plant is. howver,. not *apected to be noeded to met deend until about IS.
O0f thi, about US8138 million is tor dutio* and to.e".
AF4IE
J4E.s,ur 1989
4741E127/ANNEX1-2-



NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Electricity Demand and Supply Under the Capital Exnenditure Program (1988-1998)
(in GWh)
Estieate   --------------------------------ProJected        --------------------
19   l9 199    190    1991    1792    1993    1994    1995    I"6    1997    1998
Energy Available to Send Out:                                                   ----     ----    -       ----         -  - - -      _    _ __        ....
(a) Hyydro.
kainji  ,                                                        2,000   2,000   2,000   2,00    2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000
Jebba                                                            1,650   1,650   1,650   1,650   1,650   1,650   1,650   1,650   1,650   1,650   1,650
Shiroro                                                                           1,000   1,300   2,000   2,000   2,000   2.000   2.000   2.000   2.000
Subtotal Hydro                                               3,650   3,650   4.650   4,950   5,650   5,650   5,650   5,650   5,650   5,650   5,650
Ibi thermal {ias t Steasit
Eqbin (ST)                                                       2,643   4,820   5.900   5,800   5         s900   5,900   5,900   5,900   5,900   5,900  5,900
Sapele (Stl                                                      1,639   1,980   2,630   2,630   2.630   2,630   2,630   2,630   2,630   2,630   2,630
Sapele 1611                                                      1,013   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,O00    1,000   1,000   t,000   1,000   1,000
Afas 1611                                                        2,310   2,310   2,310   2,310   2,310   2,310   2,310   2,:310   2,310   2,310   2,310
Delta 1,23& 3 46T)                                               I,000      700     700     700      7       700      700     700     700      700     700
Delta IV (61)                                                                       350   1,050   1,750   2,600   2,600   2,600   2,600   2.600   2,600
I)ora                                                              250      50       50      50        0       0       0        0       0        0       0
Subtotal Thereal                                             8,955  10.960  12,940  13.540  14,190  15.040  15,040  15.040  15,040  15.040  15,040
Total Enerqy Available to Send Out                                   12.505  14,510  17,490  19,490  19,840  20,690  20,690  20,690  20.690  20,690  20,690
9~~~~~~~..                   .....    ....    ....     ....    _._.__._.     ......   ...  .   __.___. _  -.._
System Demand for 6enerated Energy                                   12,005  12,696  13,429  14,206  15,029  15,903  17,016  19,207  19,482  20,944  22,304
Ratio o  Demand to Available Eniergy                                    0.96    0.96    0.77    0.77    0.76    0.77    0.62    0.98    0.94    I.O    1.08
Technical Losses (1I   al                                               15.0    14.0    13.0    12.0    11.0    10.0    20.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0                  >
z
Energy Serve,                                                         10,205  10,919  11,b63  12.501  13,376  14,312  15,314  16,396  17,533  19,621  18,621
a/ Technital Losses to be reduced in a Phased eanner by one percentage point each year 4or the period beginning 1909 through 1993.
AF4IE
12-Jan-89
19:29:01



-   46  -                      ANNEX 1-4
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Available Capacity. Electricity Balance and Fuel Cost 11989-1993)
A. Power Market and Avallable Capacity
Actual     Estimate                   Forecast
1987        1998       1999      1998     1991-    1992     1S99
Power Market
Electricity Consumed (OWh)             9,S87       10,206    10,919   11,688   12,501   18,878   14,812
Consumptian Growth Rate (1)                             7          7        7        7         7        7
Estimated Technical Losses (X)            15           1S         14       18       12        11       1o
Net Generation--Sytem Demand (GWh)   11,220        12,005    12,696   13,429   14,206   15,029   15,908
Non-Technical Losses (X)                  18           20         17       14       12        11       10
Total System Losses (X)                   88           as         S1       27       24        22       20
Electricity Billed (GWh)               7,478        7,804      8,761    9,803   10,796   11,728   12,722
Peak Demand (MW)                       1,855        1,950      2,048    2,160    2,267    2,370    2,489
Available Capacity (MW)
Installed Capacity
Hydro - Kainji           760                         600        500     S00       600       Si0      S00
- Jebba           540                          450       450     450        450      450       450
- Shiroro         6e0                                     -       ga0       600      0o0      600
Subtotal (Hyd.o)                                950       950   1,250      1,550    1,550    1,550
Oil Gas Turbine (C.T.)
- Ijora             6o                          e6                  60 60               0         0
Gas G.T.   Delta         312                         140        160     160       180       190      180
- Sapele       280                          210       210     210        210      210      210
- Afam         682                          452       462     522        622      622      522
- Delta IV     60 -0                                           200       400      6e0      0e0
Subtotal (G.T.)                                 802       822   1,092      1,312    1,512    1,512
Gas Steam - Sap.e.      720                          860        600     600       6o0     s60       6eo
- Egbin     1,320 (Gas available
end-1988)               -       1.100   1.100     1,100      100    1. 100
Subtotal (Steam)                                860     1,?00   1,700      1,700    1,700    1,700
Oil Steam - Egbin     1,820 MW (in 1987 A 1988)      440          -       -                   -
Subtotal (Thermal)                            1.662     2.582   2.862      3.072    8.212    8.212
Total Capacity                                     2,612      8,582   4,102     4,622    4,762    4,762
= = = = 
Ratio of Capacity to Peak Demand                    1.84       1.78    1.91      2.05     2.01      1.91



- 47 -
ANNEX 1-4
Pago 2 of 2
S. Avellablo Enerny and Energy Output
Estimate                               Forecast
1988       1989     1990    1991    1992        1993
Avallable Enermy (QWhQM/
Hydro   -  Kainji                       2,0M0      2,000    2,0W      2,000   2,000    2,000
-  Jebb.                        1,850      1,650    1,650    1,650    1,650    1,660
-  Shiroro                          -          -    1000    l.800    2.000   2.0W
Subtotal (Hydro)                   8,860      3,060    4,650    4,950   65,60    6,660
Oil C.T.  -  IJora                        260         60       so        so        -        -
Gas G.T.  -  Delta 1,2,8                1,OW         700      700       700      700      700
-  Saplle                     1,618      1,00     1,0    1,000    1,00        1,000
-  Afam                      2,810       2,810    2,810    2,810    2,810    2,810
-  Delta IV                       -          -      850    1,050    1,760    2,600
Gas Steam -  Sapol-                     1,689      1,980    2,680    2,6830    2,680    2,830
-  Egbin                          -      4,820    5,800    5,800    6,800    6,900
Oil Steam - Egbin                       2.648                   -         -    _            -
Subtotal (Thermal)                 8.8E5     16.860   12.840   18.540   14.100   15.04
Total Available Energy                 12 6Q0     t4.61   17.490   18.490   19.846   20.e90
Energy Demand                          12,560     12,696   18,429   14,206   15,029   15,983
Energy Reserve                            500      1,814    4,061    4,284    4,811    4,787
Ratio of Supply to Demand                1.04       1.14      1.80     1.80     1.82     1.80
Output (GWh)
Hydro  -  Kainji                        1,958      2,600    2,600    2,600    2,000    2,000
-  Jebba                         1,850      1,650    1,650    1,650    1,650    1,650
-  Shiroro                           -          -      800   1I100    2.000    2.600
Subtotal (Hydro)                   8,608      8,e60    4,460    4,760    5,650    5,660
ill G.T.  - IJoro                         250          -        -         -        -        -
Gas G.T.  - Delts 1,2,3                 1,000         56        55       55       56       55
- Sapele                      1,018        900      900      700       60e      750
- Afam                        2,810      1,491      824      701       524      648
- Delta IV                        -          -      s0     1,080    1,100    1,600
Gas Steam - Sapole                      1,689      l,80     1,900    2,600    2,006    2,000
- Egbin                         950      4,800    5,000    5,00    5,100    6,200
Oil Steam - Egbin                       1.840          -
Subtotal (Thermal)                 s,s52      9.046    8.979    9.458   9S879   10.263
Allocated Supply to meet Demand for
Generated Energy                     12.005     12.696   18.429   14.206   15.029   15,90B
C.  Fuel Costs
Total Gas Volume (billion cubic feet)                111      109      116     1l1       124
Gas Price (N/MMUUTU)                                5.24     5.66    8.11      6.60     7.11
Total Fuel Costs (Naira million)                     584 k/   618      700      747      887
Total Thermal Generation (GWh)                     9,046    8,979   9,468    9,879   10,263
Average Fuel Cost (kobos/kWh)                       8.48     6.86    7.40      7.97     8.65
/  Capacity factors assumed are: Kainji (45X), Jebba (445), Shiroro (485), Ijara (60% In 1988,
10X to 1991 and 0X thereafter), Delts, Saplel, Afam and Egbin (s56).
k/ Assuming that the new gas prico of N5.24/MMBTU applies for the whole year.



NIGERIA - POWER SYSrEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Present Organization Chart of NEPA
GENEAL MANAGER|
SECRETARY/
LEGAL
DEPARTIdENT
AGM acl  11     ACM             ACM        Ar^     M   AIM 11     acl        11     AcM               ACM
ENGINEERING     GENERATION    TRANSMISSION    DISTRIBUTION    COMMERCIAL/            FINANCE        ADMINISTRATION
CORPORATEt
PLA NNING
DIRECTORS       DIRE TORS       DIRE TORS        DIRE TORS        DIRE TORS         OIRE TORS        DIRE TORS
(S)            (10)            (s)              (12)              t4)               t3)              (5)
Electrical        Headquarters   Headquarters    Headquarters    Stores              Finance          Personnel
System Plan-      Kainji         Lagos Region    Lagos North       Purchasing        Accounts         Property
ing         Egbin           Kaduna   '       Lagos South      Moter &          Data             Training
Civil            Sapele          Benin    *       Ibadan            Instrumen-        Processing      General
Mechanical        Jebba          Abe              Abeokuta          tation                            Admin stra-
Rural Elec-       Delta          Oshogbo  *       Benin            Commercial                          tion
trification     Afam            Jebba    *       Enugu                                               Public
Shiroro        PCM              P. Harcourt                                         Relations
Workshop                        Kaduna
Generation                      Jos
Rehab                           Sokoto
Bauchi
Notes:  ACM = Assistant General Manager                                                                                               _  z
Source:  NEPA, September 1988                                                                                                            x
AF4IE
November 1988
AF4IE116/ANNEX2-1



NICERIA - POWER SYST84 MAIWPNT   E AND REBILrTATION PRDJECT
Preoooed Ormoixntion Chaet of NEPA
DIRECTOR
|PUBLC RELAT"S  ET               
11,10DI                                                                                              r      ACING DWWR
DEPurY  AHSACINO DIRECTORmRbTC^*
IMATION1  TRANSNISSlON                                                                                         DISTRITION   SA
CO9FAL MANAcM  COlAl. NMM4AC 045A1 MMANA   COtAL. WANAc  DES1ER& MMANI    CeOt  MANSACU                      MERAL WXMA Ic. OdA.MN                 C8eatL.      ERAC   C8eA. WXMAN         CBEAL MMNOOA
CMATIh )         CBRANSMIIN)    (BItEERN)    (CERVICES)               (FINA  CE R   (ADMINISTRATION)    (DISTRXT RO)            (SAMS)          l (SMYICEi)            (FIt0CE)            (AIINISTRATION)
C.n ret.on       TraneServ. Dept  System Plana,  Purchasing Dept Finance Dpt.           Personnel Dept.    Distribution       SoIes Services       Central Stores      Finance Dept.       Personnel D"t.
5M.ic.. Dept.                       Dept.                                                                   Services Dept.   Dept. HQ             Dept.
K inji Poser    Protection .        Elect. Eng.    Central Work-   Accownts Dept.   Prorperty Dept.         Rural Dept.       moter & Instr.      Purchasig;           Accounts Dept.      Property Dept
Station.         Com. Dept          Dept.           shop Dpt.                                               Dpt.   .          Dept. HQ            DePt.
Egbin Power      Lagos Region       Moch. Eng.      Control Sto  Bt iudget Dept.        Training Dept.      State  DiCtribu-   State Sales        Dete Process-       Budget Dept.         Trin.ng Dept.
Station                             Dept.           Dept.                                                   tion Centres      Contras             in)g Dept.
Saplel Poser    Kadnas Region       Civil Eno.      Date Proceseing  Busineas           Indltril                 State)       (A  Sttes
Station                             Dept.           Dept.             Syste  Dpt        Relation DPt        StAte Dstribu-                        baty Dt.             Business            anuti  lp
Jebbea poer      Coebe Region       Construction    Safety Dpt.    Insurance                                (AllD State s)                             ltep           Dnlit
Stat'son  Dept.                           joso. ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~P6 ep.                                                      orshpInsurance
Delta Poser      Benin Region       Ruoesrch A                                                                                                    Services            Dept.
Station                             Devt. Dept.
AtPs Poer       DOshogbo
Station          Region
Shiroro Poser   981mm  Kabbi
Station
Abe Region
ati,onal
Control Centre.
jtncg    1  Managing Directors office to include Corporate Planning Unit.
2.  Area offtice  for Transesiaion Division in the follesing locations:
Enugu, Kainji, Abuje. Ikeja West. Ah^ngtb. end Onitaha.
APAIE
Ncvember 1988
C l
AF41E1O1/ANX2-1



- 50 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Commercialization of NEPA
1.        The future relationship between the Government and NEPA should
be based on the following: (a) establishing clear and attainable
obiectives compatible with commercial operations; (b) providing NEPA's
management greater autonomy over its operations and the selection of
managers capable of operating independently; tc) establishing clear rules
and procedures for government involvement in decision making; and (d)
holding the management accountable by negotiating targets, monitoring and
evaluating results and rewarding them and their staff on the basis of
performance.
2.        The above new relationship between the Government and NEPA could
best be achieved through a "performance contract," under which the
Government would set up medium-term objectives for NEPA, pledge to meet its
financial and other obligations in a timely manner and extend greater
autonomy in exchange for NEPA's commitment to achieve agreed performance in
the efficiency and reliability of its power services and in the maintenance
of its assets. The first performance contract need not be a perfect one.
The performance contract could be reviewed annually and modified as
necessary based on experience.
3.        The Government should agree to the following:
(a) Provide support for NEPA's efforts to make its organization more
responsive to power sector needs in fulfillment of its assigned
role under the National Power Authority Act of 1972 "to develop
and maintain an efficient, coordinated and economical system of
electricity supply ... *.
(b) Make NEPA's management accountable to its Board and not to the
Federal Ministry of Mines, Power and Steel (FMMPS). Therefore,
it would be self-defeating for the Chairman of NEPA's Board to
be from within either the Government or NEPA itself. The
members of the Board should be individuals and representatives
of commercial and consumer groups who are properly qualified
with extensive and proven management capabilities and
understandings of the power sector, and who offer a diversity of
skills, independent view-points and experiences. They should be
compensated well and take the job seriously. The Managing
Director of NEPA should be an ex-officio member of the Board.
The Government should decentralize power to the Board of
Directors as a way to depoliticize decisions and take NEPA's
interests into account.
(c) Assure that the management team of NEPA is competent, business-
minded, and action-oriented with utmost regard to efficiency in



- 51 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 5
operationalifinancial matters. The Managing Director should be
appointed by the Board in consultation with and approval of the
Government. The Managing Director should be left free to
appoint his top management team.
(d) Give the Board the primary responsibility for providing
strategic guidance to the management and monitoring performance
within the overall framework of long-term objectives of the
Government for the power sector. The Board's functions would
include decision-making on the medium and long-term borrowing
over and above stated amounts, short-term borrowings in excess
of normal requirements, major capital expenditures exceeding
predefined limits, new or revised compensation programs, salary
increases and bonuses for the Managing Director and top
executives. It would review and approve strategic plans,
annual budgets and audited financial statements, and discuss
regular and special reports. It would review management's
effectiveness in running the day-to-day business, but abstain
from intervention in day-to-day operations. The Board should be
responsible to the Government, which would restrict its role to
the setting of long-term objectives for NEPA, including key
monitorable performance indicators, against which the
performance of the organization and its Board would be judged.
if this performance is unsatisfactory, the Government could
replace the Board in part or in its entirety.
.e)  Delegate authority to NEPA to determine all contract awards for
capital goods, spares and maintenance up to a predetermined
limit. NEPA's management should be able to award contracts with
Board approval up to this limit which should be about N100
million per contract. Within this limit, the NEPA management
should be able to award contracts (without the Board approval)
up to N50 million. These limits should be revised regularly to
keep pace with inflation. For very large contracts outside
these limits, processing within the Government of NEPA contract
award approvals should be streamlined to minimize project
delays.
(f) Delink NEPA's salary structure from that of the civil service,
as in the case of NNPC. The salary structure should be
competitive and flexible to attract and retain qualified and
highly competent personnel.
(g) Agree on financial objectives for the sector.
(h) Provide NEPA in a timely manner with the capital required for
commercially unattractive projects the Government wishes NEPA to
construct (e.g., rural electrification).
Ci) Convert into equity and/or long-term loans all naira loans of
NEPA owed to the Government to help restructure NEPA's capital



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 3 of 5
(this would require no new cash outlay by the Government). In
addition, the Government will need to provide in 1989 and 1990
financial assistance to NEPA in long-term debt to enable NEPA to
service its debt and cover cash shortfalls to finance the
investment program.
(j) Arrange as soon as possible for a settlement by Government
departments and parastatals of their past due electricity bills
withi NEPA; and also of arrears of NEPA to other parastatals
(e.g., NNPC). Institute a mechanism to ensure that the
Goverranent departments and parastatals will pay their
electricity bills to NEPA within 60 days.
(k) Allow NEPA to effect regular tariff increases as necessary to
achieve its financial objectives. These increases would be in
addition to the recent increase, effective June 1989 in average
tariffs to about N27.5 kobos/kWh. Allow NEPA to incorporate a
fuel-adjustment clause in tariffs so as to neutralize the impact
of unforeseen increases in fuel costs to NEPA, either because of
an increase in fuel prices or changes in the mix of generation,
without the need to obtain specific Government approval for this
purpose.
4.        To summarize, the Government's role should be limited to setting
basic objectives for NEPA (to develop and maintain an efficient,
coordinated and economical system to supply electricty on a commercial
basis); approving Board members, and the Board's selection of the Managing
Director; reviewing and evaluating performance of the Board in meeting the
above objectives; reviewing financing decisions that affect public funds
(for example, requests for Government equity, debt with Government
guarantee, etc.); reviewing tariff levels proposed by NEPA according to
agreed principles; and long-range planning and coordination across sectors.
The performance evaluation should focus only on a comparision of efficiency
and profitability achievements with targets. Reliable and timely flow of
appropriate standardized information is critical to good performance
evaluation.
5.        NEPA should agree to the followi-ig:
(a) Develop and implement improved personnel management policies and
a staffing plan aimed at streamlin!ng the work force to match
job requirements with appropriate skills and eliminate
overstaffing.
(b)  Promote operational efficiency, increase productivity from 62
consumers per employee in 1987 to realistic levels (say 80-85
consumers per employee by 1990).
(c) Establish an end-of-year staff performance award system for the
achievement of preset productivity improvement targets.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 4 of 5
(d) Increase monthly system generation availability through improved
maintenance (annual expenditures of about 22 of assets) and
operational practices to about 602 for end-1989, 70X for end-
1990 and 752 for end-l991.
(e) Take steps to improve metering, billing and collection systems
so that the system losses are reduced in a phased manner from
the present 35Z to 202 by 1993.
(f) Reduce the average age of accounts receivable to 8 months' sales
by end-1989, 4 months' sales by end-1990, and 3 months' sales by
end-1991, and maintain it thereafter at the same level.
(g) Standardize a regular meter reading and billing system for all
customers by June 1990, possibly by contracting out these
functions to the private sector.
(h) Write off by December 31, 1989 its bad debt which is deemed
uncollectible, and install improved bill collection procedures
so as to reduce its provision for doubtful debts from 62 to 4X
in 1990, 3Z in 1991, 22 in 1992 and to 1Z in 1993.
'i) Develop plans by December 31, 1989 for improved management
information, budgeting and financial reporting systems and take
steps for their implementation.
(j) Develop plans by June 30, 1990 for an improved manpower
development program, and take steps to implement the findings in
a phased manner by December 31, 1991.
(k) Establish by March 31, 1990 a "pilot district program' in three
districts to increase productivity and efficiency of NEPA's
operations. Experience gained will help in the extension of the
improved system on a nation-wide basis.
(1) Have its accounts audited by qualified and independent auditors
in a timely manner within six months of the close of the fiscal
year. However, the 1988 accounts should be audited by
December 31, 1989.
(m) Improve its tariff levels and operations to (i) generate in 1990
and in each year thereafter, adequate internal funds to finance
at least 302 of the annual capital expenditures, and (ii) earn a
rate of return on net fixed assets on the basis of revalued
assets of not less than 6t in 1991, 72 in 1992 and 82 in 1993
and thereafter.
Utility Assistance Program
6.        The realization of the institutional strengthening of NEPA would
require new ideas, outside know-how and, therefore, very large technical



- 54 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 5 of 5
and managerial inputs. In this respect, an "utility assistance program'
with a well known international utility within the medium-term framework
covering various aspects of NEPA's operations is critical. To avoid the
pitfalls of past experience, NEPA would need to make plans for effective
utilization of the outside expertise so that knowledge and skills could be
internalized. This would require strong counterpart teams, with a positive
attitude and motivation, working hand in hand with the experts.
AF4IE
June 1989
. 



- 55 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
An Outline of Technical Assistance Under the Utility Assistvace Program
A. Obiectives
1.        The main objectives of the technical assistance to be provided
by the utility partner are: (a) engineering, technical, accounting and
managerial expertise on all aspects of electric utility operations to
assist NEPA towards achieving its objective of ensuring a continuous
reliable supply of electricity at minimum cost; and (b) on-the-job and
formal training assistance both at the NEPA's plant and abroad to ensure
that NEPA achieves about 702 self-reliance within three years. Since the
experience of past technical assistance provided to NEPA has been far from
satisfactory, it is essential for the success of technical assistance under
the utility partnership that the underlying spirit of the relationship
between the utility partner and NEPA is to cooperate and collaborate their
resources to effect the transfer of know-how from the utility partner to
NEPA.
B.   Scone of Work
2.        NEPA requires specialist assistance in many areas including the
following:
(a) Generation maintenance and rehabilitation programs and
plant failure analysis
(b)  Implementation of a coordinated system protection plan
(c) System control, load dispatching functions and analysis of
system faults
(d) Transmission maintenance and rehabilitation
(e) Distribution operations
(f) Maintenance management systems
(g) Implementation of effective system for procurement,
purchasing and inventory management
(h)  Implementation of programs for effective meter reading,
billing and collection systems
(i) Development of a system loss reduction program
(j) Implementation of sound financial system and effective
financial management



-  56  -                         ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 4
(k) Development of an effective management information system
and data processing plan
(1)  Internal audit
(m) Development of a manpower plan including staff members and
levels, reward systems and training needs
(n) Implementation of the commercialization of NEPA's
operations
(o) Implementation of a pilot district program for efficiency
improvements
(p) System planning, design and standards
3.        Emphasis in technical assistance will be on team work and joint
participation by the staff of both utilities. The utility partner will
fill key positions where special skills are needed, or where staff members
of NEPA are on training. The technical assistance would include short-term
assignments to address particular and specific needs, as well as long-term
technical assistance.
4.        The detailed work program between NEPA and the utility partner
will be agreed on an annual basis to maintain flhxibility in assistance to
meet NEPA's needs and capabilities as they evolve. While NEPA intends to
seek assistance from the utility partner in all above areas, emphasis on
assistance during the first year would be to make accelerated progress in
areas listed in items (f)'through (o).
C.   Organization of Work
5.        The utility partner will appoint a very senior member of its
organization to act as the director of the partnership (twinning)
relationship. The authority of this director must be such that he is able
to ensure that the full expertise of the utility partner is available to
the project team and that suitably skilled and experienced staff are
provided both for specific short-term assignments and long-term resident
experts in NEPA. He should be able to also devote a substantial proportion
of his time to the twinning relationship. He will be responsible for
reviewing progress and developing any changes required in the overall
technical assistance program.
6.        The utility partner will provide a Senior Resident Consultant to
act as Team Leader who will assist and advise the Managing Director of NEPA
in the implementation of technical assistance activities.
7.        The services will be provided in two phases:  (a) a diagnostic
phase first, and (b) an implementation second phase. In the first phase,
the utility partner (senior representatives of the utility) will prepare a
study jointly with senior NEPA management team and staff that identifies
the critical/priority areas on which significant and rapid changes can be
made to quickly improve the continuity of electricity supply in Nigeria,



- 57 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 3 of 4
and the efficiency of NEPA's overall operations (e.g., financial and
managerial), and help to ensure that these improvements are maintained in
the longer term. In addition to the diagnostic studies, five specific
studies will also be undertaken in the following areas: (a) relay
coordination; (b) system control facilities particularly the National
Control Center at Oshogbo; (c) rehabilitation needs for the Kainji hydro-
electric power station; (d) a detailed assessment of manpower and training
needs; and (e) the metering, billing and collection facilities and
procedures. The utility partner will then prepare a comprehensive program
to recommend immediate as well as longer term corrective actions to develop
effective organization structures, and staffing systems and procedures
appropriate to each major prior'ty area. For each main corrective action
recommended, the study will give estimates of foreign and local manpower
requirements in numbers and specialties, estimates of required
manufacturers' services, terms of reference for any recommended further
studies (by other consultants if necessary), foreign and local cost-
estimates, imp'ementation schedules and results to be achieved. Work to be
done locally, by both long-term resident experts and short-term staff, and
at the utility partner's home office will be specified. Finally, an
overall implementation plan will be prepared based on the relative
priorities of the individual actions so that the combined resources of the
utility partner/NEPA can be used to implement corrections in the most cost-
effective manner. It is anticipated that the diagnostic phase will
allocate only about one-third of the total available resources. The
Steering Committee (para 9) will allocate the balance of resources during
implementation of the second phase.
8.        The first phase is expected to be performed over a period of
about three months. Phase II is expected to take up to three years
depending on the action plans for each priority area. The utility partner
will begin with the help of NEPA staff, the implementation of actions,
studies and training programs as specified by NEPA. For each of these
activities, specific individuals from the staff of NEPA and the utility
partner will be designated. The services will be primarily provided by
personnel of the utility partner.
9.        A Steering Committee will be established to monitor the
technical assistance services. The Committee would (a) advise NEPA's
management on the course of action to be taken on the basis of the
diagnostic phase; (b) review periodically the progress of the contract
between NEPA and the utility partner; and (c) identify difficulties and
decide on "what should be done and by whom" to remedy/eliminate these
possible difficulties. The members of the Committee shbuld include (i)
NEPA's senior management team; (ii) the Senior Resident consultant of the
utility partner; (iii) the director of the utility partner; and (iv) a
representative of ODA.
10.       As for the training of the senior management personnel in the
home office of the utility partner, it is often difficult for NEPA to
release its senior management personnel for training, but it is equally
necessary for them to participate in a senior management development
program. To meet this need, the utility partner will .ppoint members of
its own management staff of the appropriate seniority and expertise to work



-  58  -                          ANNEX 2-3
Page 4 of 4
alongside NEPA's managers and assume responsibility for their work, to
enable them to be released for the necessary period of senior management
training. The managers seconded from the utility partner would also
identify areas of weakness and areas of potential improvement, and
establish a program of suggestions for improvement in management practice.
NEPA's manager under training would thus return to his post with a broader
experience, but also with clearly stated objectives as to how he should put
his recently acquired knowledge of management principles into practice.
The utility partner's manager would remain for a time working along with
NEPA's manager, assisting him in executing the program.
AF4IE
June 1989



-59 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Operational Obiectives of the Pilot District Program
for Efficiency Improvements
The utility partner will assist NEPA in the implementation of a
pilot district program in three selected districts. The operational
objectives of the program are summarized below:
(a) Productivity and Cost Control Targets. All transmission,
distribution, and commercial operations will be re-iewed to determine
existing productivity and cost control levels (e.g., employee/customer
ratios, size of payroll, system losses both technical and non-technical,
system outages, equipment downtime, system maintenance requirements,
illegal connections, etc.).  A program will be established to raise these
levels to an acceptable standard and the achievement of these targets will
be the measure of success for each model district.
(b) Improving Operational Procedures. Operating procedures
will be reviewed in all work units to determine constraints to productivity
and efficiency (e.g., overlapping responsibilities, lines of communication
and authority, inventory control, procurement, work order processing,
emergency operatians, meter reading, billing and collection procedures,
accountability, etc.). A revised district procedures manual will be
developed and used on a pilot basis over a two year period; NEPA will make
final modifications to be used in all NEPA districts.
(c) Improving Personnel Management. Personnel management
procedures and practices will be reviewed to determine constraints to
effective use of the workforce (e.g., matching employee qualifications with
job assignments, personnel record keeping, recruitment and promotion
practices, corroborating attendance and payroll, processing of disciplinary
actions, etc.). A personnel management program will be established to
address the deficiencies found in the review and targets will be set to
achieve specific objectives (e.g., computerization of personnel files,
testing and evaluation of employees' job skills, stricter adherence to wurk
rules and regulations, updating of all job descriptions, etc.).
(d) Streamlining the Workforce. Following the productivity and
personnel management reviews, a manpower audit will be conducted to
determine the most efficient staffing levels in each work unit within the
district. The audit will focus on numbers of staff required to carry out
each unit function, abilities of employees to perform according to their
job descriptions, key vacancies that need to be filled, and employees that
should be transferred or made redundant. A workforce improvement program
will be implemented over a two year period to achieve staffing level
targets established from the results of the manpower audit.
AF4IE127/ANNEX2-4



- 60 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 2
(e) Improving the Workplace Environment. A survey of all work
locations (e.g., commercial offices, administrative offices, substations,
workshops, and field locations) will be conducted to determine constraints
on efficiency and productivity in the workplace. The survey will focus
upon conditions such as lack of tools, materials, and equipment to carry
out assignments, cleanliness and orderliness of work areas, presence of
persons not employed by NEPA, work area security, means of transport and
communication, diversion of materials and supplies to non NEPA activities,
and lack of consumable supplies. A workplace improvement program will be
implemented over a two year period to resolve the constraints noted in the
survey. Results will be measured against targets established to meet
program objectives.
(f) Improving Workforce Supervision and Discipline. A review
of workforce supervision and discipline will be conducted at the district
level to determine their effects upon work outputs (e.g., response to
instructions, delegation of authority, delegation of tasks, management of
objectives, attendance, disregard for -work and safety regulations, and
disciplinary actions). A series of training workshops will be implemented
to present the findings of the review and to instruct managers and
supervisors in improved supervisory techniques. Targets will be
established to achieve supervisory improvements over a two year period
(e.g., individual manager and supervisor work plans, reduced absenteeism,
improved work unit safety records, reduced number of disciplinary actions,
etc.).
(g) Job Skills Upgrading. Following the manpower audit, a
training needs analysis will be conducted within the district to determine
the training requirements of employees at all levels of operation (this
will not include employees being transferred or made redundant). On-the-
job training programs will be established for each employee as necessary to
upgrade job skills according to his/her job description. These will be
supplemented with specialized courses run by NEPA's Training Department and
other external Nigerian training institutions. The objective of this
activity is to have all district personnel (from the highest down to the
semi-skilled grade levels) certified as competent in their existing job
positions at the end of the program period.
AF4IE
January 1989
AF4TE127/ANNEX2-4



NU16Ekl-FObE  SECIOR 314AlIPIEU 418 REWUL1tl430  P1I
........ . . .......... .._ ....  . _... ._ ... . .... _..... 
Rw^alseatmo of f|ied kiats
(io atliaon% of Nairasi
t kBegal        I baal           Bngal          Cuetlatase
Loul           lnternainal 0t1h1  to           Chaqe    IUin NW   Ctoosite      Cocoesite
Inilatto .1     Inflatiton U033  Rate of        Exprestd in    factwr d          Factor
VW               ttl             32)         the 1uira       Riris t/            It              (it
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .  ..  ,...... .... ...._|.   ,..  ,,,,, ,_,
1913            40.8            14.0             0.0             14.0            25.S            25.9
IV14            45.0 e9.8                        9.4            10.4            22.5             48.4
1915            39.1            13.9            1.13           15.              11.0            65.4
1910            14.7            11.01           10.71           30.91             4.5            09.9
tS77             8.8             9.3            13.21           12.5             11.2            81.l
IS76            11.1            C.0             0.t            13.4            14.9             9t.0
191            t15.0            32.4            15.5            (3.11            3.2             99.2
I98              9.9             9.2I            2.0             0.0             1.8            307.0
3981            38.4             0.5           (11.01           11.5            3.9            120.9
1992             LI '3.4                       (8.2             1.4              9.3           129.2
1983           23.2             32.0           3.91             4.3            10.9           1340.1
1994            39.0            3IJ)            (Lii1            3.o            0.2            30. 3
1995            5.5              1.3           114.41           35.5            12.0            309.4
198t             5.4            19.3           33H.01           51.3            35.3            103.0
1981            I0.0            0.0           It0.13           71.3             537           251.3.
998            25.0             3.2           120.03           29.2            27.1            284.4
398             15.0             7.7           332.01           39.1             31.1           315.5
990            10.0            31.23          310.3)            9.1             9.4            324.9
1991            10.0             1.4            I8.21            9.t              9.1           334.0
1992            10.0 D1.                        17.11            8.8             t2            U343.9
1993            10.0             3.3            15.ot            9.1             5.             353.1
toyvolued Fl or  Assts                                                  1913   974    915    1971   1971    1918    I919    1980    1981   '982    1983   139d    1995   1398           1987      988
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                     _       ... ...       ._._.   ..      .                              ....    ....    ....      ..,,,,,.,,,,.,, ,,,,,, _
Iross Fited Assts                           6FA     EFASISM134           40      5S       t8     749     as   1132   I,314 ltI'2   2,013   3,000   3,492   4319  5.037  7.044   10,964   17,949
Cumulative D ernmntion                      CD      C18333.FIAD          132     179     225     250     291      144     383     445     61      741     90t  1151   13 85   194    ;3 64    4,527
9t Fined Assets                             IIF     6fA-LI               32B     X9028  390  4S3                 1 29    933   3,441   2,057   23 24   26 0B    3 It7   5.t52  ,S t0    70 B4    13.422
Nor$ 14 Prfors                              ClIP    CIIPEF1IM             to      38      U      I1      312     475      752     6e0     91    1,36   1,994   2.533   3.5    4.759    7.86    3,098
tilP locrsnt                                ChIPI  CUIPJAF                         9      IS       a      35      i1       24      41     121    13      218    430      391   1,U78    4,129    1,031
BFA ltr"et                                 tFIURF  1fA1 f                       128     117      34      90      115      42     47     371     254     362     6"      6Ot  2.484    5.L90    L61
to lucreut                                  01f   COIRf                          40      so      it      33       Sl      12      n5      85      62.   9        IB       136    099    I110   13220
Revaloati.. Factor I2S                       5F      Input                      22.5    11.0     4.5    11.2 *  14.9      3.2     7.8    13.9     9.3    10.9   3I.2    12.0   35.3        M3.7     {7.1
nCdae Rato 11s1 t  e r-End                  Ea       Input                    1.0228  1.5957  1.5853  1.5352  1.5444  1.1841  1.8300  .6290  1.4850  1.3820  3.;090  1.1200 0.7500   0.2500   0.2000
I'sst Iditines                               BA      Input                         S      23       30      25     too     104    470      510     173      91    201       199    2;1      133      4A16
=uab weciatinn                               AD      Intut                        17     13       15       I9       2      20      33     101      10      84      96      93      II3      112      50S
(dIP Ad;itions                              (M3PA   Input                         10      41      82      121     II7     262    -211     229     310   4H2       216     414    35u        31       102
... ..  _. .................. ._ .....  . .
katea  OEA  Asuts renalued oFfaCiall, dons so 1972.
so uiqwrsa  60P Dlit'r OIFS 1980 wtbook) t 6iuldiase  en Inflalltic l titne BtRas IF4UOI.
0, omat Value of Nactured Inpurts Itrade usgbhted Itr hIoerial) 46.
co Foregn Cost IAlataoa coanvrtd at rulin  year-end achane rates.
di Saqbted anuual rvalutin factor basd on 652 welgt fw  foreign cost of the plnt an  35 eIsht or local coat of the plant.
l F11/8)                                                                                                                                                                                                              ID
30-jan-9l9                                                                                                                                                                                                            X4



- 62 -
ANNEX  2-5
Attachment 1
N16ERiA-POWER SYSTEN NAINTENANCE AND RENABILITATION PROJECT
Projected Asset Revaluation
tin oillions of Niral
Vork-in-Prooress:
:S5S=5:S::5SSSS5S58 =1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Ooening Balance                              7,722   3,808   1.923   1.l90   1,151   1.088
Plus:-
Additions turino Year                        102    963   1,796   3,095   3,116   t.557
Foreign Exchange Losses  aupitalized           0      32       71     165     222      165
Less:-
Transfers                                  4.016   2,900   2,600   3.300   3.400   2,373
Year-End Balance                             3,808   1.923   1,190   1,151   1,098       438
Fixed Asset Schedule:
Opening Balance                             10 964  17,949  24,323  31,400  37,758  44,650
Revaluation Rate                              it.l2   31.1t    9.4?    9.71    9.22    9.4?
Revalued Balanct                            13,933  23,523  28,800  34,458  41 250  49,845
Addition to Revaluation RSUerve              2,9n9   5,574   2,47n   3,058  3K492   4,195
Additions During Year                        4,016   2,800   2.600   3,300   3,400   2.373
alance at Year-End                          17,949  26,323  31.400  37.158  44,650  51,218
Depreciation Schedule:
Ooening Balance                              3,164   4.527   6.707   8,349  10.372  12,713
Revaluation Adjusteent                         857   1.406      631     813     959   1,200
Depreciation Rate                              3.5?    3.52    3.5?    3.5?    3.5?    3.5?
Depreciation During Year                       506     775   1.010   1.210   1,442   1,678
Closing Balance                              4,527   6.707   8,349  10.372  12.773  15,651
Revaluation Surplus Schedule:
Sea. Dal. Revalution Res.                    5,795  11.463  15.631  17.477  19,722  22,255
Adoitions                                    2,112   4,169   1,846   2.245   2,533   2.995
V.I.P. Rev. Adjustment                       ;,566
End Balance                                 11,463  15.631  17,471  19,722  22,255  25.250
AF4IIN/DN
024eo-89
15:21:18



ANNEX 2-6
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Revaluation of Fixed Assets
1.        The National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) intends to have a
consultant(s) determine the value of its fixed assets as of December 31,
1988. The consultants would also devise a method for the future regular
recording of pertinent asset data, develop an appropriate methodology and
procedures for the annual updating of the valuation, and train NEPA staff
in the use of the method and procedures.
2.        The consultant(s) shall limit their engineering valuation to
generating plant and other facilities representing about 752 of the total
net value of NEPA's fixed assets.
3.        The consultant(s) shall prepare an inventory of fixed assets,
noting for each item: (a) its description, specifying the number of units
and for each unit technical charactz&istics, if necessary using separate
lines for the different units of identical items; and (b) its condition (in
service, usable after repair, unusable, obsolete, etc.).
4.        For each item, the consultant shall estimate:
(a) its age;
(b) its remaining economic life (the expected service life of
each asset should be prepared on the basis of "best
estimates");
(c) its depreciated replacement value as of December 31, 1988;
(d)  its annual depreciation rate in percentage terms
(100/(a+b)); and
(e) its cumulative depreciation (a*c*d).
5.        The remaining technical and service life of the fixed assets
representing about 252 of the total asset value shall be prepared by
comparison with the other 75Z after taking due consideration of their
function and the place where they are employed.
6.        NEPA staff shall be included in the consultants' team for
training, and will subsequently inventory and make the precise valuation of
the said 25, under the supervision of consultants.
7.        The consultants shall state how fixed assets should be revalued
from one year to the next, pending a future engineering valuation,
utilizing appropriate cost indices (for example, a constructic- or building
cost index for part of the value of assets pertaining to civil engineering
works, a foreign capital equipment cost index for the part of the value
accounted by imported goods, and a domestic inflation index for other local
costs).
AF4IE
January 1989
AF4IE127/ANNEX2-6



- 64 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Analysis
A. Price Levels and Revenues
1.      Prices.  The following inflation and exchange rates have been assumed:
International        Domestic            Average
Year        Inflation a/         Inflation       Exchange Rates bl
(X)                 (Z)           (US$/N)   (N/bUS$)
1989            7.7                  15            0.136      7.37
1990           -1.2                  10            0.122     8.20
1991            1.4                  10            0.122     8.90
1992            1.7                  10            0.104      9.62
1993            3.3                  10            0.098    10.25
a/ Unit value index for manufactured exports (trade weighted for Nigeria).
b/ Exchange rate of N6.9 - US$1 is assumed in January 1989.
2.      Sales and revenue.  Electricity sales (in GWh) and revenues are based
on NEPA's audited operating results for 1987, and its estimated 1988 data.
The estimated data for 1988 reflect a 35Z level for system losses.
Electricity consumption is assumed to increase by 72 p.a.
3.      System losses (technical and non-technical) are assumed to decrease
from 35? in 1988 to 202 in 1993, through improved metering and billing system
and the improvement and strengthening of the transmission and distribution
system:  4 percentage points each year in 1989 and 1990, 3 percentage points
in 1991, and 2 percentage points each year in 1992 and 1993.
4.      Average electricity tariffs are assumed to be as follows: 19 kobos/kWh
in 1989 (weighted average of 7.1 kobos/kWh for January-May 1989 and 27.5
kobos/kWh for June-December 1989), 37.1 koboslkWh in 1990, 43.2 kobos/kWh in
1991, 48.3 kobos/kWh in 1992 and 52.6 kobos/kWh in 1993. These tariffs levels
were arrived at based on financial objectives given in para 2.37 in Chapter
5.      Other revenues are estimated to increase at the same rate as GWh
sales.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 2 of 4
B. Operating Costs
6.      Fuel expenses are based on the fuel consumption data prepared by NEPA,
and appropriate adjustments for expected generation end sales conditions. The
fuel cost estimate for 1988 is based on NEPA's budget estimates. A gas price
of N5.24/MCF is assumed as of May 1989, with an increase of 8Z p.a. in the
future (as proposed by NNPC). The first increase is assumed to take affect in
January 1990. Any increase in fuel cost in subsequent years due to price
changes and/or a change in the hydrolthermal supply mix is assumed to be
recovered through the proposed fuel adjustment clause in the tariff schedule.
7.      Generation - other expenses are based on NEPA's 19P8 budget estimates.
Since the maintenance of generation facilities has been grossly inadequate in
the past, a 50Z increase in real terms in 1989, and a further 202 increase in
real terms each year for 1990-1992 was assumed. In 1993, expenses are assumed
to increase by the domestic inflation.
8.      Transmission and distribution expenses are based on NEPA's 1988 budget
estimates, and are assumed to increase in real terms as follows: 502 in 1989,
and 202 each in 1990, 1991 and 1992. In 1993, they are assumed to increase by
the domestic inflation.
9.      The cost of consumer services is forecast to increase by 82 in nominal
terms on the basis of data provided by NEPA.
10.          Provisions for bad debt assume that a more efficient revenue
collection program would be in place. The level of bad debts is forecast to
fall progressively by one percentage point annually from the present 6a to 52
in 1989, 42 in 1990, 32 in 1991, 22 in 1992 and 12 thereafter.
11.          Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis at an average
rate of 3.52 on average gross fixed assets in service as revalued at the end
of each year. The investment component of the Project is considered to extend
the useful life of the underlying assets, and therefore these investments are
depreciated at the same average rate as noted above.
C. Other Income Statement Items
12.          Exchange Losses  Pre-SFEM excherge rates are applied on all
outstanding foreign debt on September 26, 1986. For all new loans, exchange
rates given in para 1 above are applied. Exchange losses on construction
loans each year are capitalized. Exchange losses on all other loans are
charged to the revenue account in tne period in which they occur.
13.          Interest expense en all existing foreign loans is calculated on
the basis of the data on loan amounts, repayment terms and interest rates, as
provided by NEPA. Interest on restructured debt and on new naira debt from
FGN is calculated at a rate of 142 p.a.; a 15 year maturity is assumed
including 3 years of grace. A schedule of loan amounts, repayment terms, and
interest rates for loans during the forecast period is given in para 22 below.



-  66  -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 3 of 4
Interest expenses on loans relating to operations are charged to the revenue
account.
D. Balance Sheet Items
14.          Gross fixed assets in service and accumulated depreciation have
been revalued each year. Assets were revalued from the 1972 cost level using
a weighted revaluation index (Annex 2-3) based on domestic inflation (35Z
weight) and a Unit Value Index for Manufactured Exports (trade weighted for
Nigeria), adjusted for the exchange rates in para 1 (65? weight).
15.          Inventories have been estimated as a percentage of revalued gross
fixed assets (GFA) in service as follows: 2? each in 1989, 1990 and 1991,
2.4Z in 1992 and 3.5? in 1993.
16.          Accounts receivable.  Improvements in NEPA's billing and
collection are assumed to reduce the accounts receivable from 15.4 months'
revenues in 1988 to 8 months in 1989, 4 months in 1990, and 3 months
thereafter. A vigorous program to achieve these targets is assumed to be in
place.
17.          Other current assets represent mostly salary advances to staff.
They have been estimated at N108 million per year based on NEPA's figures.
18.          Equity (paid-in capital) represents the FGN's interest in the
Authority on the vesting date (April 1, 1972), computed in accordance with the
provisions of the 1972 Decree.
19.          Long term debt.  External debt outstanding on September 26, 1986
is expressed in naira terms using a concessionary exchange rate of N1.6 - US$1
as allowed by the Central Bank of Nigeria. The terms and conditions of
outstanding debt were modelled to determine the amortization for the remaining
life of the debt. The new external debt after September 1986 was converted
into nairas using prevailing and forecast exchange rates. The rescheduled
naira debt owed to FGN is assumed to have a maturity of 15 years, including
three years of grace.
20.          Current maturities on long term debt reflect the portion of long-
term debt due in the next 12 months.
21.          Other current liabilities are based on the followings  (a)
accounts payable at the end of each fiscal year are assumed to decrease
progressively from 10 months' cash operating expenses in 1989 to 6, 5, 4, and
2 months in 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993, respectively; and (b) accrued interest
is assumed to represent 3 months' annual interest expense.
E. Funds Flow Items
22.          Total borrowing envisaged is assumed to be as follows:



- 67 -
ANNEX 2-7
Page 4 of 4
Fi rat Year
Equivalent                 of PrInclpal
Source          Currency     B f                    Rent Estted
Proosed Project:
dI      AdRD  USS          70.0      7.65   20       1994
Commodity Aid fro
the Federal Republic
of Cermany    Om           18.4      8.00   40       1959
- KfW          014          9.1       8.08   10       1991
- Suppliers' Credit  Pound Sterling  8.6  8.08  10    1C91
Invostment outoide the Prgiect:
- AfO9 (132 kV)  us1                  8.00   20       1995
(transission &
distribution)
- US EX-I4 Bank  Us#        110       6.76   20       199S
(Delta IV)
- (DCE $Itly)  Lire         121       6.00   8        1393
(330k  lines)
- Suppliers' Credit  USS    259      10.00   7        1993
(uni|dentif ied)
- FCN A/       use                   14.00   15       1994
Total                   976
a/  FGN is expected to provide an estimated N1,294 million (US$182 million
equivalent) in 1989 and 1347 million (US$42 million) in 1990 in long-
term debt necessary to cover NEPA's operational cash shortfalls.
23.      The unidentified amount of US$259 million in foreign exchange
requirements is not considered serious, given that (a) it occurs in later
years, and (b)- FGN has been able to mobilize in the past reasona'
financing in bilateral aid and/or suppliers' credits for the powr ,ector.
F.  Debt Service
24.      Foreign currency loans outstanding in 6eptember 1986 have been
converted into naira using a concessionary rate of N1.6 = US$1, allowed by
the Central Bank of Nigeria fvr servicing of these loans. New foreign
currency loans have been converted into naira using the prevailing and
projected exchange rates given in para 1 above. Foreign currency
obligations in other currencies have been converted into USS using the
exchange rates prevailing at the end of 1988; this relationship between the
US dollar and other foreign currencies is assumed to continue during the
forecast period.
25.      Customer contribution and security devosits totalling 1613
million are assumed for the 1989-93 period. These reflect (a) consumer
contributions for non-economic extensions and/or cost of extensions beyond
the normal free portion permitted in tariffs; and (b) deposits under a new
security deposit policy requiring new customers to post deposits of M150
for residential connections and N1,000 for industrial groups.
AF4IE
June 1989



NIGERIA-PONER SYS'
Income Statements
fin millions of Nairas)
--------------Actual--------------  Estioate   -------------Pro ected --------------                         Total
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1909    1990         991    1992    1993                   1999-93
Sales Increase (S)                             3.2   (10.1)   12.1    20.0       1.3     4.4    12.3    11.9    10.1        8.6     8.5
Fnergy Sales  (Gkh)                          6,106   5,487   6,152   7,380   7,476   7,804   8 761   9.803  10 796  11.723  12 722
Average Price  (kootostfh)                     7.0     7.4      7.2     7.0      7.1      7.1    19.o    17.1    43.2    48.3    52.6
REVENUES:
Energy Revenue                              428     406      446     518      530     553   1,661   3,632   4,659   5,662   6,692                      22,306
Other Revenue                                 4       7       15      11       14      16       18      21       23      25       27                      114
TOTAL REVENUES                             432      413     461      529      544     570   1,679   3,653   4,681   5,687   6,719                      22,419
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Fuel                                          34      34       31      85      160     225      410     616      700     747      887                    3,360
Purchased Power                                1       2        2       2        4       6        0       0        0       0        0                         0
GeneratioQ-Other                              19      19       20      20       30      54       93     123      162     214      235                      827
Transmission                                  13      14       15      18       19      26       45      62       81     108      118                      414
Distribution                                  70      65       70      75       84      91      157     217      286     378      416                    1,454
Consuser Services                             19      20       22      25       26      40       43      46       49      55       60                      253
Bad Debts Provision                           26      24       27      31       32      33       83     145      140      113      67                       548
Adainistration & General                     100      89      121     169      167     206      361     397      437     481      529                    2,204
Amortization of Development Costs              3       0        8       9       17      16        0       0        0        0.      0                         0
Depreciation                                  84      98       95     111      112     506      775   1,010   1,210   1,442   1,678                      6,115
TOTAL EXPENSES                             370      364     410      545     651   1,203   1,966   2,616   3,066   3,537   3,990                       15,175
Operating Income                                62      48       51     (15    (107)   (634)   (287)  1,037   1 615   2 150   2 729                         7 244
Foreign Eichange  sain/(Loss)                   15      18)    (59)    1471    (16)        0      120)    (52)    155)   1295)   1312)                       1834)
Interest on Deposits                            10       7        1       5        4       0        0       0        0        0       0                         0
Net Income Before Interest                      87      47       (7)    157)   (119)   (634)   (307)    984   1,460   1,855   2,417                        6,410
Less:Interest                                   35      72      111     190      410     158      752     963   1,075   1,280   1,410                       5,479
NET iNCOME                                   52     (25)   (118)   (247)   (529)   (792) (1,058)        21      385     575   1,007                       931
Rate Base (average) a/                       1,557   1,639   1,785   1,915   2,000   7,719  16,519  21,334  25,219  29,631  33,722                        25,285         0 
Rate of Return on Rate Base                    4.01    2.9Z    2.92   -0.82   -5.41   -8.21   -1.71          52      62       71      81                      5.0S            m
Operating Ratio 1)                            85.6    88.3    88.9   102.9   119.7   211.2   117.1    71.6    65.5    62.2    59.4                           75.2
o 1
a/ Assets revalued from I 8.
AF41E/MDN
19-Jun-89
12:12:59



NIGERIA-OlE  SYSTElt MAINTENCE III0 3Ell8LIlA1TOd PWECI
. .................. .....     ..         .. . .     ....
Saluse Sheets
Ila dllinnis of Rairas)
----------- - ------tAtual --------------       ---- Fstlite---  --- ------ProJected.---------------
1982     983    1984    17hS    1q4        1987    1988 19d8R  /   1989    1990    1993    3992    1993
---   ------- ------  ......  ......  .... ..  . ... .. . ....I.  ..... .  ......  ......  .. ......  ........ 
0mmed Assets
71dol an mSrvce                           3,998   2,089   2,350   2,54t   2,?80   2,974  17,949  17,949  26,323  31.40   37,758  44,650  51.218
tess:  Oepreuatian                          445      529      626      702      '96     90B   4.527   4,527   6.707   8.349  10,372  12,773  11,651
..          .. ...  ----    -----    .....  ..   -----  ----  ------    ------    ------    ------    ------.......... .
Not Filed Assets                          1,34   1,563 11724   1,046   1,984   2,016  1t.422  13,422  19,616  2350e2  27.386  31,877  35,567
ort, to Progress                          W,ilb  ,1140   l,75U   2,314   3.428   4.156   S,808   3.S08   1,423   1,190   1,I51   l,088               438
Inve,itents                                   2        1        1        1       1        1        1       A        I        I        I       I        I
~~~~~~~~... ...   ... ...  ... .... ------  .... ... .... ..  ----   ----   ----   ...... ....
otIAl FIXED( ASUtS                        2,602   S,102   3.475   4,012   S.913   6,373  17,232  17,232  21,N40  24,243  28,138  32.966  36,006
Wtther Assets
Deferred debits                              71        b      131)       7      20       16        0       0        0        0       0        0        0
Current Assets
Casb                                         30      330       70       74     133      119      119     119      339      119      194     24       299
Inventor3es                                  41      18B     263      239      A43      534     359      339      526     628      755   3,027   3,793
Receivables                                 359      405      485     577      Su4      137     712      712   1,125   3,213   1,170   1,422   1,680
ether Current Assets                          0        0        0       0        0        0      O9O    108           IO3  308              108 308  3
TO1AL CURRENI ASSEIS                        949      723     818      890   3,058   3,389   3,299   1,299   3,879   2,073   2.227   2,761   3,879
rThA  ASS1S                              3,622   3,831   4,2b2   4,909   6,991   7,379  38,353   18.531  23,420  26.317  30,766  33,727  39,88
rquitV
Paid an Capiltl                             256      26       256     256      236      256      236     256      236      256     256      256      256 
Retained Earnings                           461      527      S03     446    (4183    (61 9   113,7371  13,737  132,7965  O2,774)  2,3589)  I.8103)   1806)                                                   '
Revalualion Rtserve b/                        0        0        0       0        0        0  11.463  13,43  13,631  17,47   19, 722  22,255  25M250
E*ctianqn EqtueeatioJn rteserve c             0        0        0        0       0   1,454   l454   3,454   1,454   3,4S4   l,t           1,434   3,454
lther                                          3       0        0        0       0       0        0       0        4       IS      2B       40       40
.....   ----   .          . ....    _._ .---   ----   ..... ... .. ... .  . .... .  ..... ... ......  ...... . . ..  .
1OT6  EqUlty                               717      783      759     702    tl62)    7b4  31,43b  1J,436  14,330  16,428  19,071  22,192  2b,194
0vern ent                               2,303   2,303   2,444   2,S39   2,577   2,530   3,043   4,132   5.426   5,773              S.430   3,025   4,b4O
State 6overneat Loans                                                                              a            a   8                8        8        8
Foreig,                                     166      230      400      872   3,390   1,996   13,47   1,347   1.521   2,039   3,708   5,442   6.141
----    ----    ---    .... .... .....   ---    -----   ---    ----    -----... 
Total                                     2.469   2,533   2,844   3,411   5,968   4,526   4,403   3,408   6.956   7,820   9,127  30,475  10.790
Current Liabilities:
Payables                                    353      435     S73      680      910   I.3SI    2.074      98'      93     803      773      698      383
Ioan Interest                                 0        0        0       0        3        0        0       0      388     741      264      320      352
Current Hatorities of Lt Debt-foreign         17       7        9       Is      36      325      324     324      328      504     520      084 S     71
Current   tirItles af LI Debt-FGN             0        0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0 o3          38h 3S     5
Consueer Oeosits                              0        O        0        0       0        O               0 0      SO      ,OD     352      204      258
70141 CURRENT LlUlAtlTlES                   369      642     582      b95      967   1,843   2,S39    3,333   1,559   1,648   2,076   2,492   2,252
Consuoer Contributions                           67       73      77      100     218      246      296      296     336      421    402       569      651
---      ---     ---               .......---      ....... -----    -----    .................. .  ........    ---                   : e
T.ifAi F4UITY I L3683L1131                   3,622   3,831   4,262   4,901   6,993    7,379  38,S33   18,531  23,420  26,317  30,7f6  35,'27  35.886                                                         lb
LI DEII/ItI Ofdr  EQUITY)    (2)               77.5    76.4    78.9    S2.9   102.0    05.6    27.8    32.4    32.3    32.2    32 4    32.1    29 2                                                          0    3
CURRENT 0A139                                   2.6     1.6      1.4      1.3      1.1     0,6      B.3      3.0    1.21    1.26    1.07    1.11    1 72                                                     ph O
RECWEALES litlONS)                             10.1    11.4    14.3 1I.5    l;.S    16.7    15.4    35 t               .0     4.0      3.0     3.0       .0 
............ .............. ...... ...... ....
a/ restructured I988 Atoris to reflect the criversion of current gaturitses due to F6t of 81,386  sillion as uell as the restheduling of all debt (including
the restructured debt  totulling 44,131 mi lion over IS  ers at 14t Interest.
bl Assets revalued frog 1988
l etlecting the enchange gain resIting from the epJlitation of pre-SFfMt concessionary exchange rates on all foreign loans outstanding at Septester 26, 198b.
AU43E/101
le-Jun-119
12:11:05



NIERIA-PNER SYSTEN NAINTENANCE AND REWILITATION PROJECT
Funds Flow Statements
fin sillions of Nairas)
-------------Ittual-------------- Estimate  ---------- ProJected-- ------                     Total
1983   1984   1985   1986    1987   1988   1989    1990  1991           92    1993          1989-93
INTERNAL SOURCES OF FUNDS               ---    - -   ------  --- -  - --- -          -     -     ------   ------ ---- -                ---
Operating Intome                         62      48      51     (15)  (107)  1634)  (297) 1,037   1,615  2,150   2,729               7 244
Depreciation                             84      98      55    111    112    506        775   1,010   1,210   1,442   1,678          6115
Consumer contributions                    6       4      24      18      27      50      60      65     71      77      82             35
Other sources al                         10      12       1      42)    181    16        50      SO     51      53      54             258
Prior Year AdJusteent                    13       1      U       39      111      0       0      0       0       0       0
TOTAL INTERIIIU FUNDS                   175    162    212    211         22    (62)   598  2,162   2,948   3,722   4,543            13,972
OPERA IIK OHLEOUtlERENTS
ChanAe i         E                       11      17    148)  1122)  (4621  U447)   386    331           82   17  130                 2,650
[   Chageiloti g p       ions            35      72     111    190    410    158    752    963   1,075   1,2   '11,                  5,479
Debt RePaymenflAortlzation)-Foreign      17       7       9      15      56    325    324    328    504    520    884                2,561
Debt Reparment(Aortuation -FGN                                                           I 0             0    363    385               748
Other Paeents                           166)   (37)    47        13       0       0       0      0       0       0       0               0
TOTAL OPERATIONAL REOUIRERENTS           (3)    59    119        96       4      36   1,462   1,623   1,660   2,710   3,983         11,439
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTIRENT                178    103       93    115       19    198)  (865)   539  1,288   1,012    559               2,534
CAPITAL INVESTRENT
The Project                               0       0       0       0       0      0    203    576    365         97      16           1,257
Other Investments                       584    419    414    361    371         102    680   1,220  2,730   3,019   1,541            9,190
TOTAL CAPITAL MINESTIENT                584    419    414    361    371         102    883   1,796   3,095   3,116   1,557          10,447
BALANCE TO rE FINANCED                     406    316    321    247    353    200   1,748   1,257   1,807   2,104         99            7,913
FINANCED BY:
Government Debt                          12    141      110      79    220      200   1,294     347      0       0       0           1,641
Foreign Debt                             74     115    *15    226    116          0    450    898   1,869   2,102   1,093            6,412                                                         0
Other                                     0       0       0       0       0       0       4      12     13      12       0              40
TOTAL CAPITAL SOURCES                    86    256      325    305    336    200   1,748   1,257   1,882   2,114   1,093             8,093
CASN INCREASE/(DECREASE)                  (320)   160)       4      59     (14)      0       0       0      74     10      95
CASH AT IEGII6INS OF YEAR                  450    130       70      74    133      119    119    119    120        1
CASN AT YEAR END                           130      70      74    133    119       119    119    119    194    S           99
ANUA  DEBT SERtCE COVERAGE                 2.8    1.9    1.2    0.5    0.0   (0.3)   0.5    1.6    1.8    1.7    1.6
AWIDAL CONTRIBUTION:
To Construction  (I)                   30.5   24.7   22.5   31.8    5.0  (95.6)  (97.9)  30.0   41.6   32.5   35.9
a/ Includes Consumer DePosits beginning 1989.
Note: NEPA's practice is to capitaliz  foreii  exchange losses arising fret le revauation of con$tructi  Ims and imiclde them in the construction york-in-Progress
The foreign exchange losses ap liabp e or ths period under revieu and ror the projected period are as set out bel o:
TotalOQ0
1983   1984   1985    1986   1987   1988   1989    19          1991   1992       3                  1989-93                                       l
Foreign Debt Exchange Loss Provision      0      so    201   1,651        a       0      32      71    165    222    165                       656                                        W
Foreign Exchange Loss Capitalised         0      50    201   1,651        0       0      32      71    165    222    165                       656                                        0 o
AF41E/NDN                                                                                                                                                                                M  X
18-Jun-89
12:13:03



NIGERIA-POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Working Capital Statesents
(in millions of Nairas)
--------------Actual---------------- ----Estivate---- --------------Projected---------------
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988 1988R a/   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
RECEIVABLES
Energy Revenue                              405      485     567      584      737     692      692   1,113   1,211   1,165   1,416   1,673
Other Revenue                                 0        0       0        0        0      21       21       12        7       6        6        7
TOTAL RECEIVABLES                           405      485     567      584      737     712      712   1,125   1,218   1,170   1,422   1,680
INVENTORIES
Gross Plant                                 188      263     239      341      334     359      359      526     628      755   1,027   1,793
TOTAL INVENTORIES                           188      263     239      341      334     359      359      526     628      755   1,027   1,793
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                             0        0        0       0        0      109     108      108      108     108      108      109
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                        593      748     806      925   1,070   1,179   1,179   1,760   1,954   2,034   2,557   3,580
(Excluding Cash)
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accrued Interest                                                                                         188      241     269      320      352
Accounts Payable                            435      573     680      910   1,518   2,074       987      993      803     773      698      385
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES b/                435      573     680      910   1,518   2,074       987   1,181   1,044   1,042   1,018        738
VORKING CAPITAL (Eitiuding Cash)                158     175      126       14    (448)   (894)    192       S79      910     992   1,538   2,843
INCREASE/IDECREASE  in WORKING CAPITAL         158       17      (48)    122)   (462)    447)        0      386     331       82      547   1,304
a/ Restrucutured 1988 accounts to reflect the eonversion of current maturities due to FGN of Nl,086 aillion to Long-Term Debt.
b/ Total excludes cash shortfall and current maturities, consumer deposits (see balance sheet)
AF41E/NDN
l1-Jun-89
12:13:01                                                                                                                                                               OQx
0o



- 72 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 10
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENAMCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Electricity Supply Facilities and Detailed Project Scope
A. Generation Maintenance and Rehabilitation
1.      Background.  The unavailability of foreign exchange in the 1982-
84 period meant that NEPA had to forego any significant preventive
maintenance measures and regular overhaul programs. Generating units
gradually failed; in 1983 only 1,100-1,200 MW of the capacity was available
and load had to be interrupted accordingly, resulting in a major expansion
of autoproducer capacity. The reallocation of US$44.4 million (of this,
US$22 million was fG. generation maintenance) from Loan 2085-UNI in late
1984 permitted a substantial increase in capacity, relieving load shedding
due to capacity restraints. By late 1986, the capacity situation had
improved considerably through generation rehabilitation and addition of new
capacity (Egbin and Jebba). NEPA now has about 4,700 MW of installed
capacity. However, due to serious financial constraints, NEPA has been
unable to obtain critical spare parts and carry out normal maintenance and
rehabilitation work for the units, and the overall actual plant
availability is very low; delays in the completion of the Escravos-Lagos
gas pipeline until recently (completed only in late 1988) and the high cost
of oil to operate the Egbin plant also contributed to the non-availability
of the Egbin plant. The average plant availability in 1986 was about 2,650
MW, deteriorating further to 2,330 MW in 1987 and to 2,005 MW in the first
half of 1988, to meet a peak load of about 1,900 MW in early 1988 (a
reserve margin of only 62). As a consequence, load shedding became
frequent and widespread.
2.      The status of the generation system (September 1988) is shown in
Attachment_1. In September 1988, out of a total 65 generating units, only
39 units (2,800 MW) were available. Many of the units have remained out of
operation ranging from 1 to 4 years. Much work remains to be done to
complete the rehabilitation of some units and to undertake overhauls that
are long overdue. Besides rehabilitation, normal maintenance work on
generating plants usually requires an annual expenditure of about 2Z of the
original investment. On this basis, NEPA needs to spend about US$50
million on average for annual maintenance of the operating capacity. This
would involve major overhauls of hydro units every 5 years, steam units
every 4 years, and gas turbine inspections and overhauls of varying
intensity at 8,000, 16,000, 24,000 and 32,000 hours of operation. At NEPA,
there is a serious backlog of rehabilitation and overhaul maintenance
work. The US$22 million provided for generation maintenance under Loan
2085-UNI has only acted as a stop gap measure. A generation maintenance
consultant for the preparation mission for the Power VII project in
November 1986 estimated the cost of generation improvements at about US$180
million.



-  73  -                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 10
3.      While the changeover of the Egbin plant to gas has provided some
stability (base load operation) in the power supply, there is still an
urgent need for rehabilitation and maintenance through proper overhaul of
selected and economically sized plants so as to improve and maintain a
reliable power supply. NEPA in the past has required a large amount of
excess generating capacity because of frequent breakdowns arising from
inadequate maintenance and planning and lack of resurces.  A significant
change in this situation cannot be expected in the short term. In
addition, the full output from the Egbin plant will depend on the sustained
availability of gas in adequate quantity and proper plant cperations and
maintenance. Therefore, an adequate margin in generation capacity is
necessary to meet the expected load growth and to ensure a reliable power
supply.
4.      In its system operation, NEPA has been facing major disturbances,
some of which were attributable to sudden tripouts of the larger thermal
units at Sapele and Afam. Due to the poor plant condition, the daily
availability of these large units has also been unpredictable, severely
affecting NEPA's daily system availability. A better availability of the
large units through a proper rehabilitation and maintenance program is
expected to give some stability to the NEPA system. In view of these
considerations in conjunction with serious resource constraints, NEPA has
decided to rehabilitate six large units currently out of operation at
Sapele and Afam IV, and undertake in a phased manner overhauls of the ten
large operating units (which are overdue for such maintenance) at Sapele
and Afam IV; this approach is satisfactory. The scope of the generation
maintenance and rehabilitation subcomponent included in the project is
given below.
5.      Scope of the Generation Maintenance and Rehabilitation Work.  In
total, 7 units (total 606 MW) at the Sapele, Afam IV, and Delta plants,
currently inoperable will be rehabilitated, and 10 units (total 850 MWW).
which are operating but are overdue or will soon become overdue for major
overhauls at Sapele and Afam IV, will be overhauled.
(a) Rehabilitation and Overhauls
(i)    Completion of the ongoing rehabilitation and overhaul work
for ST1 (120 MW) and GT2 (70 MW) at Sapele as follows:
ST1 Boiler: supply of chemicals and chemical cleaning,
supply of necessary instrumentation and electrical
equipment spare parts, replacement of cannibalized relays,
technical services for recommissioning of the boiler.
ST1 Turboaenerator: Supply of necessary spare parts for
instrumentation and control equipment, and technical
services for hot recommissioning of the unit.
GT2: Supply of instrumentation spare parts and technical
services for hot commissioning of the unit.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 10
(ii)    Complete rehabilitation and overhaul of the inoperable
units ST2 and ST5 at Sapele (120 MW each), GT 17 and GT18
at Afam IV (70 MW each), and GT2 at Delta (36 MW) as
follows:
ST2: Pre-rehabilitation inspections to assess the
condition of the boiler, turbogenerator; spares including
pneumatic and electrical spares, and consumables for the
boiler, technical services for boiler overhaul; reblading
of the damaged 7th and 8th row blades of the LP rotor and
the diaphragms (stator blades), mechanical, pneumatic and
electrical control and other spares, consumables, and
technical services for the rehabilitation and overhaul of
the turbogenerator.
ST5: Pre-rehabilitation inspection of the turbogenerator
(inspection of the boiler already done); spares and
consumables, technical services for overhaul of the boiler;
LP blades for 7th and 8th rows, spares and consumabl's, and
technical services for the overhaul of the turbogenerator.
GT17 and GT18: Pre-rehabilitation inspections; replacement
of the damaged hot gas path turbine inner casing;
refurbishing of the turbine blades (repairs and
rechromising), spares and consumables, and technical
services for major overhauls.
GT2 at Delta: Technical services for rehabilitation of the
unit utilizing spare parts at site, purchased earlier for
GT2 and GT1.
(iii)   Overhauls in a phased manner of the economically sized and
operating 10 units which are already overdue or will soon
become overdue for capital maintenance: ST3, ST4 and ST6 at
Sapele (120 MW each), GT1, GT3 and GT4 at Sapele (70 MW
each), and GT13, GT14, GT15 and GT16 at Afam IV (70 MW
each). The overhaul of each unit will include technical
services for pre-overhaul inspections (including boilers in
the case of Sapele steam units), supply of spare parts and
consumables for overhaul, and technical services for the
overhaul and recommissioning; in the case of gas turbine
units, testing and repairs will include the combustion
chamber, inner casing, and repairs and rechromising of
turbine blades.
(b)  Spare Parts.  Supply of running spares, repairs of and spare
blades, and consumables for two years for the above 16 units at
Sapele and Afam IV.



- 75 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 10
(c) Technical Services for Operations. Maintenance and Training
The project provides for expert services for two years (total 240
man-months) from manufacturers of the above units for supervision of
plant operations and maintenance, and training of the NEPA technical
staff to help ensure the safe and reliable operations and maintenance
of the units.
Sapele Steam Boilers (72 man-months)
1 commissioning/operations expert (24 man-months)
1 mechanical maintenance expert (24 man-months)
1 chemical expert (6 man-months) followed by an instrumentation
expert 18 man-months)
SaPele Steam Turbogenerators (72 man-months)
1 commissioning/operations expert
1 mechanical maintenance expert
1 electrical works expert
(The expert on the electrical side will also assist in the
electrical side for the Sapele gas and Afam gas plants)
Sapaele and Afam Gas Stations (96 man-months or 48 man-months
;              each)
For each station, 2 experts for 2 years:
1 commissioning/operations expert
1 mechanical maintenance expert
B.   Transmission Maintenance and Improvements
6.        Background.  NEPA's transmission system consists of about 4,500
circu't km of 330 kV lines, twenty two 330 kVI132 kV main stepdown
substations, about 4,500 circuit km of 132 kV lines with 80 substations
feeding the subtransmission and primary distribution networks at 33 kV and
11 kV.  The system is characterized by a relatively small number of long
transmission lines connecting generating stations which, with the exception
of the Egbin plant in Lagos, are remote from load centers. The reliability
of the transmission system has been poor.
7.        NEPA is planning to construct about 870 km of single circuit 330
kV transmission lines--Benin-Onitsha (137 km), Alaoji-Enugu and Enugu to
Makurdi (423 km) and Gombe-Maiduguri (310 km), together with switching
facilities at existing stations and new 330/132 kV stepdown stations at
Makurdi and Maiduguri. These lines will strengthen ties with the southeast
load area, provide second circuit for evacuating output from the Afam
plant, and improve the supply situation.
8.      The NEPA transmission system has an adequate 330/132 kV stepdown
transformer capacity of about 5,000 MVA. However, the combined 132/33 kV
and 132/11 kV (a small portion of the total) stepdown capacity is only



- 76 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 10
about 3,400 MVA and is inadequate. Since most stations are designed with 2
transformers to allow service to be maintained if a transformer fails, the
132/33 kV capacity should be at least about 4,000 MVA if fully loaded or
about 5,000 MVA if allowance is made for low power factor, future load
growth and load diversity. The inadequate 132/33 kV transformer capacity
on the NEPA system is causing load suppression due to overloading on
specific stations. NEPA is planning to construct about 19-132/33 kV
substations and extend 11 existing substations, together with connecting
132 kV lines, to increase electricity supply from the existing transmission
networks by adding about 2,300 HVA of 132/33 kV substation capacity.
9.      Substantial progress was achieved in rehabilitating the
transmission system under Loan 2085-UNI (about US$12 million for spare
parts, replacement of SF6 breakers, and manufacturers' services to correct
the most serious deficiencies). Since then, due to the serious financial
constraint, NEPA has not been able to obtain the needed spare parts and
manpower services for maintaining the circuit breakers and other equipment,
and virtually no routine maintenance has been carried out. As a result,
the transmission facilities of NEPA are in a poor condition. There is,
therefore, a need for considerable support in iaproving NEPA's transmission
facilities and providing transformers, reactors (necessary for controlling
the voltage levels), circuit breakers and fault throwing switches (which
guide the line repair crews in locating the faults). There is also a need
to strengthen and make fully operational the National System Control
Center.
10.     NEPA's system has been experiencing major system collapses.  In
1987, there were about 22 system collapses (blackouts) and 11 partial
system faults, of which 17 faults originated from the transmission system.
During the first half of 1988, six out a total of 9 major system
disturbances were due to problems in the transmission system; the remaining
three faults were due to problems in the generation system. The recent
experience of the power system performance is summarized below.
Partisl
He;or Sy"t DiurLn   Smats Dl*&,rbnZr
Du- to    Dii to o            Du" to  Total Grid Coll lp
Total  Transmislien  aenjeration    Total   Tranamia-  <on.rAtion  Resulting in
Y ^r  No.  FAM I t   Faulto  No.  Faults   Faults  Toets I _ of SUDDIW-
1984  98     78      17    47   40           7         32
1985  48    8S       18    82   22          18         19
1986  18      7       a      a     2         6          o
1987  22     17       a      11   10         1         22
1988    9     6       a      1      1        -          8
During such _.ystem disturbances, it invariably took a long time, about half
an hour for partial system recovery to about 3 to 4 hours for complete
station recovery. Such disturbances have a devastating effect on the
stability of machines at thermal stations. Sapele steam power station
often lost supply of demineralized water, and bringing back the units
required about 4 hours for effecting complete system recovery.  During such
system disturbances, an estimated 2 GWh of generation out of a total
average daily generation of about 32 GWh were lost on each occasion (or



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 6 of 10
some 6.25Z of the total). It also led to increased fuel consumption for
start-up purposes. Estimates of lost generation due to system disturbances
are given below.
Loss of Electricity
Output due to
System Disturbances
(GWh)
1985                           160
1986                            42
1987                            66
1988                            20
11.     The post fault analysis by NEPA confirms that the protective
schemes are not able to cope adequately fer clearing the faults, and result
in minor system faults developing into major system faults. Such frequent
sudden system collapses have a large adverse effect on the stability of the
machines particularly at the thermal and gas fired stations. The gas
turbine blades and other components are prone to sustain damage due to
sudden thermal shocks on account of full load tripouts. The poor
reliability of the system also had an adverse effect on the overall image
of NEPA.
12.     A number of power transformers in the system (about 21
transformers with a total of 720 MVA capacity) are getting overloaded in
the range of 90Z to 135? for a period of about 4 hours each day. As a
result, some of the area control centers have to resort to shedding loads
to avoid overloading of transformers for a period of 2 to 3 hours, which
results in an estimated daily loss in electricity consumption of about 1
GWh (or 3Z). A number of 132/33 kV injection transformers (about 20 with a
total of 275 MVA capacity) are loaded . to 85Z, and are, therefore, due
for reinforcement. Due to load shedding for this reason, an estimated 0.5
GWh of electricity consumption is being lost daily. This has also
restricted connections for additional service.
13.       Scope of Transmission Improvements.  The project would provide
equipment, spares and services for improvements of the transmission system
in the following critical areas:
(a) Spare parts and services for the overhaul of major 330/132 kV
substations.
(b)  Replac&ment of 37 old air blast circuit breakers (installed some
20 years ago and now obsolete) by SF-6 breakers.
(c) Replacement of fault throwers in eight critical locations by SF-
6 circuit breakers.
(d) Replacement of 10-132 kV circuit breakers by SF-6 breakers in
critical locations.



- 78 -
A1NEX 3-1
Page 7 of 10
(e) Spare parts for the power line carrier perty line and telex
communication system.
(f)  Radio equipment for imp oving communication between major
substations and service centers.
(g) Technical services for completion of selected 132 kV
transmission lines and associated substations in Lagos, which
are an important part of NEPA's Lagos Distribution System
Expansion Scheme.
C.   Distribution Imnrovements
14.       BackRround.  NEPA's distribution system consists of the
following: (a) 33 kV distribution system (about 9,500 km of 33 kV lines,
330--33f11 kV substations, and 3,400 MVA 33111 kV transformer capacity);
(b) 11 kV distribution network (about 15,750 km of 11 kV lines, 12,800--
11/0.415 kV substations, and 3,700 MVA 1110.415 kV transformer capacity);
(c) 415V LT lines; and (d) about 1.026 million service connections
(September 1988). in recent years, the shortage of distribution materials
and vehicles has constrained expansion of the distribution system and new
service connections.
15.       Although the total. substation capacities appear adequate, there
are area overloads due to load imbalances. This has led to load shedding
at several locations and restriction on new service connections; the
aver-ge monthly loss in electricity sales is estimated at 5.2 GWh. An
estimated 350 MW load is also presently suppressed. A System Emergency
Reinforcement Committee in NEPA in 1987 identified eleven transmission
substations and 66 distribution injection substations with overloading of
the transformers, and hence requiring reinforcements. There is also some
work still needed to complete the distribution facilities in the Lagos
area.
16.       Scope of Distribution Improvements.  The proposed project aims
at strengthening the distribution system in selected priority areas to
overcome the present weaknesses and for assuring maintenance of existing
distribution facilities.  It will add about 370 MVA of distribution
substation capacity as well as help expand and strengthen distribution
lines. The detailed scope is given in Attachment 2 and summarized below.
(a) Power transformers (28--33/11 kV with a total capacity of 170
MVA).
(b) Distribution transformers (140--33/0.415 kV with a total
capacity of 50 MVA, and 400--11/0.415 kV with a total capacity
of 150 MVA).
(c) 33 kV and 11 kV switchgears.
(d)  High tension and low tension cables and joining accessor5lp.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 8 of 10
(e) Overload line materials.
(f) Protection, communication and control equipment components.
(g) Raychem cable joining kits.
(h) Rechargeable lamps and district communication equipment.
D.   Metering Improvements
17.       The project includes the supply of about 20,600 consumer meters
for services to new customers as follows:
-    maximum demand meters                  600
-    polyphase meters                    20,000
-    associated current transformers    2,000
E.   Vehicles
18.       Background.  The existing NEPA vehicle fleet (about 3,000) is
almost worn out, and the day-to-day operations of the entity are severely
constrained by vehicle shortages. NEPA's policy is to change cars and vans
every four years, and trucxs every six years. However, the age of the
present fleet is in the j-10 year range as no new purchases have been made
since 1983.   Many vehicles are immobilized due to spare parts shortages
and/or lack of funds for repairs. Overall, only some 10-20? of the fleet
is operational. It is estimated that about 1,600 standard vehicles are
required as replacements. In addition, NEPA utilizes special vehicles,
including cran.es, bulldozers, and pole trailers, etc. It is estimated that
NEPA requires about 140 special vehicles as replacements.
19.     Scope.  The project includes the supply of about 320 standard and
special replacement vehicles together with spare parts for generation,
transmission, distribution and training, as follows:
Distribution   Transmission   Generation   Training   Total
-----------------------Number of vehicles-----------------
Vans                29               7             8            -         44
Station wagons      29               7             8            -        44
Pickups            121               7             8            -       136
4-wheel drives      24             19              -            -        43
5-ton lorries       12               6             7            -        25
10-ton cranes       12              6              7            -        25
32-seater buses      -              _                           3         3
Total     227              52             38           3        320



- 80 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 9 of 10
F.   Conversion of the Egbin Plant to Gas
20.     The project includes engineering services for supervision and
monitoring of the conversion of the Egbin plant from oil to gas. The
changeover to gas was completed in April 1989.
G.   Utility Assistance Program
21.     The project would finance a "utility assistance program" for NEPA
with a well-known international utility company within the medium-term
framework (until about mid-1993) to provide technical assistance (about 500
man- months) covering various aspe^ts of NEPA's operations (technical,
engineering, financial, managerial and administration).
H.   Data Processing
22.     The project will provide personal computers and proven software to
improve consumer billing, materials management, general accounting
applications, and MIS at the headquarters, planta and distribution centers.
The detailed scope will b2 prepared with the assistance of the utility
partner during the second half of 1989.
I.  Training
23.     The project will assist NEPA's Training Department in improving
operational capabilities at the three training centers through support for
(a) the relocation of the overcrowded Ijora Training Center to another
newly-constructed building of a simple design in the Lagos area; (b)
renovations and additions to the Kainji and Afam Training Centers; (c)
training equipment for the three Training Centers; and (d) the procurement
of buses for trainee transport and auxiliary services (included under the
vehicles component). The utility partner under the Utility Assistance
Program will provide technical assistance as needed for specialized course
development and implementation. The estimated base costs are summarized
below.
Local          Foreign           Total
----------(in US$ million)-----------
Construction/renovation
of training centers             0.4               -              0.4
Training equipment                 0.1              1.0              1.1
Total base cost            0.5             1.0              1.5
J.   Project Management
24.     The project includes engineering services (about 60 man-months)
for project implementation and management (project implementation planning,



- 81 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 10 of 10
scheduling, procurement assistance including preparation of bidding
documents and bid evaluation, supervision of maintenance and rehabilitation
work, cost control and other mp-tters in project implementation.
K.   Studies and Future Project Preparation
25.     The project includes consultancy services (about 100 man-months)
for updating of available studies to prepare a least cost priority
investment program taking into account recent developments, preparation of
feasibility studies and other studies necesqary for developing the future
investment projects for external financing.
AF4IE
June 1989



-  82  -
NIARIA - POWUT   YSM 4 MAI    N   AND RENBALITATIO  PRO.
Statu. of Gecoration Caeacity. Sptambor 1j9
Ins,to IIed                         lhnavo il4bl isk
Plint/Unit                               Ym r              c ocity    Mai; IA' COwcit.         U-ojl.i t b                      Rawrk-
Ka i.nji Hydroas17                                                              0
cGoss           1978                O120              120
co 1ti8                               so                                      so      Damadeto generator winding
Ge    19b9                  ~~      ~~80                             808aag
09         ~~1969                 so               so
010             1069                  80                                      60     mO o,to g nrta, winding
011             1076                 100                                     100       Dowa  to transformer
012             1976                 lo_
Subtotal        GU                                                     a _
J.b6& lydro            C-1              1983                  go               g0
C-2             1064                  go                                      90      OsG-g  to damper winding (.acitation probil)
0-3             19b4                  90               90
0-4             1984                  90               go
0-5             1984                  90         0 0
Subtotal                                                              in
Total Hydra                                         1O0
Egb; n (Stese)
Egb. (Steam)  8TI  Me                220                                              AMI unit  awailabl, as cvpecit7 but the hi,,h
ST2             1906                 220                                              cost of oilIha  I lis;ited oporat'ons.  Un;.ts
ST4             19R8                 220                                               are  beig change  to ga. fir-ng (to be
ST4             1820cop1.  by lbrch 19609).
STS             1987                 220
ST6S            19675 
Subtotal                                            1,35
Sapele  (Steam)
ST1             1976                 120                                      120      Under rehabilitation.
ST2             1979                 120                                      12       Out due to domaged turbine blades.
ST3             1979                 120              120                              Overhaul overdue.
ST4             1079                 120              120                              Overhaul overdu.
STS             108                  12                                       120      Damage to unit transformer, and
broeker requires overhaul and rehabilitation
ST6             1080                 12               15,                              Ove-rhal overdue.
Subtotal                                             7.                  2
Total Thereal Steam                                       2z12
Spal.  (Gee)
Sapole(Cos)      OTI              1981                  70               70                              overdue for gverhmul.
QT2             1081                  70                                       70      Undor rehabilitation.
0T3            19l                   70               70                              Overdue for overhaul.
S t 4           1081                  7v               7                               Overdue for overhaul.
Subtotel                                            200                10 
Afa (Ca.)
Afe. (ts)        071              1088                  12                7
QT2             1063                  12                                        6      Scraped
0T3             1065                  17               18
7T4             1968                  17                                       1S     Clgwoed turbine inner casing.
076             1976                  24               20
076             1076                  24               20
a"7             1978                  24               20
0T7             1976                  24                                       20      Turbine blade failure.
079             1970                  27                                       2S      Overhtul overdue.
0T10            1076                  27               2S
7i11            1978                  27               25
0712            1978                  27               25
0T13            1082                  70               70                              Overdue for overhoul.
CT14           102                   70               70                              Overdue for overhaul.
0715            1082                  70               70                              Overdue for overhaul.
0716            19082                 70               70                              Overdue for aovrhaul.
0T17            19082                 70                                       70      Starting equipment problem.
Subto'           OTIS            19a2                  _                U7                    -A        Damaged turbine inner casing.
Delta (Gas)
Delta (C")071                     1066                  38                                      38      RehabilIitation needed.
CT2             1 08                  38                                       36      Rehabilitation needed.
0T3             1975                  20               20                              Overdue for movrhaul.
GT4             1975                  20                                       20      Reduction gear foult.
GTS             1978                  20                                       20      Vibretion problem.
076             19o"                  20               20                              Overhaul overdue.
0"7             1975                  20                                       20      Dmageod rew  Ation gear problem.
078             1078                  20               20                              Overdue for overhaul.
0T9             1978                  20               20                              Overdue for overhaul.
0T10            1976                  20               20                              Overdue for overhaul.
0T71            1978                  20                                       20      Demage tog merator breaker.
OM1             1978602                                                                Overdue for overhaul.
0T13            1978                  20               20                              Overdue for overhaul.
Subtotal         CT14             1978                                                          2       CGenrator winding fault.
Ij or  (Cae)
0T4                                  20                                       20      Under maintenance
Subtotal         CT           6.                                                                       Under mintnmne.
Total Therml Cae 1, S467                                                                               9
Total                                              4,674            2.777                   1. s0
AF44IE127/ANX3-' SAR



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-1
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Distribution Improvements--Prolect Scope
1.   Power transformers 33/11 kV  - 28 Nos., total capacity of 170 MVA
2.   Distribution transformers 33/0.415 kV - 140 Nos., total capacity of 50 MVA
Distribution transformers 11/0.415 kV - 400 Nos., total capacity of 150 MVA
3.   33 kV and 11 kV switchgear and control panels
33 kV transformer control panels - 40 Nos.
Spare parts for 33 kV circuit breakers like turbulator components, vents,
fixed and moving contact assemblies, closing and tripping cost, motor
changing spring, etc.
Incomer 11 kV circuit breakers                               -     22 Nos.
Bus section 11 kV CCT                                        -      10 Nos.
Feeder 11 kV CCT                                             -     45 Nos.
Spare 11 kV VTS                                              -     10 Nos.
Other spares of 11 kV breakers, and fuses                    -  6,500 Nos.
Silica gel                                                   -     50 drums
4.   High tension and low tension cables and accessories
33 kV cable 3 x 240 sq. mm.                                  -     12 km
33 kV cable 1 x 300 sq. mm.                                  -      4 km
11 kV cable XLPE 35 sq. mm.                                  -     18 km
11 kV cable 3 x 70 sq. mm.                                   -      4 km
11 kV cable 1 x 300 sq. mm.                                  -     12 km
Cable sockets of various sizes                               -  2,300 Nos.
Tapes, fluxite, ferrules, electroclean, fuses, G-38 compound, etc.
5.   Overhead Line Materials
Line taps for various sizes of conductors                    - 13,000 Nos.
Bimetal connectors in various sizes                          -  2,250 Nos.
'D' fuses - 11 kV                                            -    600 Nos.
'D' iron complete                                            - 10,000 Nos.
Snail clamps                                                 -  2,000 Nos.
Adopter socket                                               - 22,500 Nos.
Stay wires                                                   -     15 km
11 kV pin insulators                                         - 15,000 Nos.
33 kV pin insulators                                         - 15,000 Nos.
Stay insulators                                              -  4,00v Nos.
Tie straps - 33 kV                                           -  5,000 Nos.
11 kV                                          -  5,000 Nos.
Stay rods                                                    -  4,000 Nos.
Adoptor sockets sets                                         - 15,000 Nos.
Fused isolator 11 kV                                         -      50 Nos.
Line isolato_s 11 kV                                         -      50 Nos.
AF4IE116/AN3-1



- 84 -
ANNEX 3-1
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
Bare copper conductor - 70 sq. mm.                            -    100 km
Strain insulators - 11 kV                                     - 10,000 Nos.
Shackle insulators                                            - 25,000 Nos.
11-kV spindle and pin insulators                              - 15,000 Nos.
33-kV 'D' fuses                                               -    100 Nos.
33-kV fuse isolator rocking                                   -    100 Nos.
33-kV line isolator                                           -    100 Nos.
11-kV and 33 kV "D' fuse elements for 11 kV                  - 10,500 Nos.
33 kV                                              -  4,500 Nos.
Earth rods                                                    - 10,000 Nos.
Lightning arrestors 33 kV                                    -    500 Nos.
11 kV                                   -    750 Nos.
33-kV spindles                                               - 15,000 Nos.
6.   Protection, Communication and Metering Equipment
33 kV VT's (voltage transformers?)                      -      8 Nos.
33 kV CTs                                               -      8 Nos.
Spare relays - OIC and E/F                              -     20 Nos.
Flag relays                                             -     20 Nos.
Trip relays                                             -     20 Nos.
Differential relays                                     -     20 Nos.
SBEF relays                                             -     20 Nos.
Alarm system relays                                     -      4 Nos.
Machining CTs                                           -     30 Nos.
Tripping units - 110V D.C., 75 AH                       -     40 Nos.
30V D.C.                             -      5 Nos.
Multi amp. relay test kits & other test instruments  -        11 Nos.
Oil filtering machines                                  -     10 Nos.
7.   Raychem Materials--
Raychem cable join*ing kits for various sizes of cables:
95 sq. mm.                                              -     60 Nos.
185 sq. mm.                                              -    185 Nos.
90 sq. mm. HT                                           -     50 Nos.
185 sq. mm.                                              -    250 Nos.
95 sq. mm.                                              -     50 Nos.
185 sq. mm. right angle                                  -     60 Nos.
300 sq. mm.                                              -     30 Nos.
and other jointing accessories
8.   District Communication Equipment
VHF co.asolate base radios, including antennas
and other accessories                                 -     50 Nos.
VHF mobile radio sets and installation accessories    -        30 Nos.
RHF walkie-talkie type sets                              -     65 Nos.
Emergency rechargeable lamps                             -     50 Nos.
AF41E116/AN3-1



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA-PO'WER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proiect Management Services for the Proiect Implementation Coordination Team in NEPA
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        The National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) is undertaking a
power sector maintenance and rehabilitation project and has applied for a
loan from the World Bank for financing of the project.  The main objectives
of the project are to: (a) carry out much-delayed maintenance and
rehabilitation of selected generation, transmission and distribution
facilities, so as to improve the supply of power; and (b) promote
institutional strengthening of NEPA and help initiate a rational medium-
term recovery program.
Project Management and Status
2.        Wtile each Assistant General Manager (AGM) will be responsible
for the component in his division, a Project Implementation Coordination
Team, under the direct supervision of the General Manager, will have
adequate authority to ensure effective planning, coordination and
monitoring of implementation of the overall project. The team would be
headed by a senior manager and comprise senior representatives of each
division. The rehabilitation and overhauls of the facilities will be
planned and carried out in a manner so as to minimize interruptions to the
power supply.
3.        NEPA wishes to strengthen its Project Implementation
Coordination Team with an experienced technical expert from an
international consulting firm specializing in engineering to assist it in
project management -- one expert on a full-time basis in Nigeria with
specialized backing from the home office of the selected engineering firm.
4.        The rehabilitation and overhauls of the 17 generation units will
be carried out by the original equipment suppliers (Deutsche Bobcock for
the boilers at Sapele, ASEA Brown Boveri for the turbogenerators and gas
turbines at Sapele, gas turbines at Afam IV and at Delta). They will be
responsible for carrying out inspectionsi where needed of the units to be
rehabilitated/overhauled, the supply of spares and components,
installation, testing and commissioning.
Scope of Services Required
5.        The scope of services required shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
(a) Develop and implement systems and procedures for planning and
scheduling for implementation of the rehabilitation and
maintenance components for the generation, transmission and
distribution systems at each project implementation stage



- 86 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 3
(inspections, procurement, shipping, erection, testing and
commissioning);
(b) keep under review and control project costs and monitor progress
of expenditures;
tc) coordinate organization of pre-rehabilitation and maintenance
work, including inspections;
(d) optimize project implementation arrangements to minimize unit
shut-downs, interruptions to power supply, etc.;
(e)  coordinate work of individual supplier's personnel with a view
to minimizing cost of services;
(f) review contractors' periodic progress reports;
(g) train NEPA staff in project cost control, planning and
monitoring of the rehabilitation work;
(h)  assist in the review of the inspection reports of the generation
units and the resulting scope of work prior to
rehabilitationloverhauls;
'i)  assist NEPA in the preparation of bidding documints and bid
evaluation (for transmission, distribution, metering, vehicles,
training equipment, and personal computers), negotiations of the
contracts (for all rehabilitation and maintenance work including
the generation facilities), and contractual arrangements with
contractors including testing and commissioning and performance
guarantees. The consultants will assist NEPA in the preparation
of technical specifications as necessary;
(j)  provide inIOrmation on the international market for equipment,
goods and materials related to the project;
(k)  assist in ensuring strict observance of contractual agreements
and all appropriate guarantees form contractors;
(1)  provide assistance in international procurement of equipment
under the project; and
(m) assist in the monitoring of international shipping arrangements,
and their timing vis-a-vis overall implementation schedule to
minimize costs.
Data. Local Services and Facilities to be Provided by NEPA
6.        Data.  NEPA is to provide the consultants with all available
information that may be reasonably required for carrying out the
assignment.



- 87 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 3
7.        Facilities and Supporting Staff for the Consultants.  NEPA is to
provide the following staff and facilities to help the consultants in
performing the services in Nigeria:
(a) counterparts to work with the consultants;
(b) suitable furnished office accommodation, including utilities,
telephone and office equipment and supplies;
(c) suitable housing;
td)  adequate administration and clerical personnel;
(e) cost of transportation and transportation facilities within
Nigeria.
Schedule of Implementation and Reports
8.        The overall project is expected to take about 36 months to
implement. As for the generation subcomponent, rehabilitation of the six
units currently inoperable at Sapele and Afam IV will be carried out in a
phased manner over a period of about 15 months.  Overhauls of the ten
generation units, which are running, will be done in a phased manner over a
period of about 24 months. The rehabilitation and maintenance of the
transmission and distribution systems is expected to be implemented over a
period of 18 months.
9.        The consultant will prepare periodic reports on the project
status and progress.
AF4IE
June 1989



-  88   -                           ANNEX 8-8
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Projoct Implementation Schbdul-
1989        1990         1991        1992       1993
Sub-Project          Implemomtotion Stage      1  2  B  4  1  2 |  4  1       a  4  1  2  3  4  1  2
Rohabilitotton/ovorhouls 
of seven units prosently
out at Sopele, bftm and
Delta:
STI, ST2, STS, tT2 at    Contract prep. A award
Spople, CT17 and OTIO    -  Boilers                   _
at Afam, and GT2 *t       -  Turbogeneratore and
Delta                        gasi turbines V/
Inepection/rehab lita-        _   _   _   _   _   _   _
ti on/overhauls
Overhauls of ten units
presently operating at
SepIes and Afam:
1. STS, ST4 and STO at   Inspectlon & overhauls
Sapele                 - Boilers
Sap 1-         ~- Turbogen-rotors                                       _- =  =  _  =  _
2. Gas Turbines--OTI,
OT3 and CT4 at Sapele Inspections A overhauls
3. Gas Turbines--OTIS,   Inspections A overhauls *           _ _ _ _ _ _
- T14, OTIS and OTIS
at Afam
Technical services for   Boilers at Sapele,          _ _  _  _  _  _  =  _ 
operations, maintenance  Turbogenerators at Sapole                   _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _
and training for genera- Gas turbines at Sapele               _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _ 
tion                      Gas turbines at Afam             _         _   _   _   _   _   _   _  _ 
Transmission              Procurement
improvements           Equipment/material
manufacturing A shipping
Installation
Distribution improve-    Procurement
ments                     Equipment/materia l
manufacturing  shipping
Installation
Metering equipment        Procurement
Meter manufacturing
A shipping
installation
Vehicles                  Procurement
Vehicle manufacturing
*nd shipping
Egbin gas conversion
Institutional strength-  Utility assistance          _ _  _  _ __
ening                     Date processing
-  Co.mputer & software
ordering
- System installation
Training
pj   This contract will also cover inspection and overhauls of boilers for STS, ST4 and STS at Sapele, and
technical services for operations and maintenance and training.
b/   This contract will olso cover inspection and ovorhauls of turbogeneratora for STS, ST4 and STe
at Sapele, gas turbines for 0T1, 0T8 and 0T4 at Sapele, and CTiS, CT14, O116 and OTIS at Afam, and
technical services for operations and maintenance and trainirg.
AF4IE
June 1989



NIOIA - PM   MM              AND RAILTAIIUI PROJCT
Celtal Coat taste. bw PrOlac, Cmoeento
A. O_Awa tion MaIntenane Had Rhanbilitaion
Banlre Seal* Stain   -at                  Real. Can                 Atom IV "a, el                Total
IUelt-a            tabre
LOW   Forelan- T       Ltol    GO I  FPerlen  1otnl   Loc    Foreign 1 Jt   Lee l  Forein   Tetl   Lee    Frelrm  Totl
^bllt "tloen md Orhaulm
'      pn3lpTFr a 1.11    61so  7.27   1.71    9.50   11.21    0.83    2.0a   2.47    1.83    7.37    3.70    4.68    35.12   29.68
Engineern  Sericee          0.66    8.08      4.59   0.91    6.48    0.89    0.84    2.08   2.87    0.52    3.14    8.66    2.48    14.60   17.01
eaih   lSr tea      bla.I
R or af *nd S"r IIT   0.16    0.S6      1.02   0.10    0.86    1.02    0.81    1.72   2.08    0.48    2.68    J.16    1.11    6.12        7.28
Cen ultn  Services9or f0
cOsrntTen . Ibliae"  an
rTT        iTiie              0.16    1.08      1.26   0.18    1.08    1.20    0.12    0.72   0.84    0.12    0.72    0.S4    0.60    3.00    4.20
T     a e and Duties          1.94              1.94   2.60      -     2.80     1.07                    2.4      -      2.44      .2S     -       e.25
So" Coat Eatimta              4.05   12.08    10.08   5.78   16.92   22.e8    2.22    6.66   8.76    4.69   1$.91   16.80   16.92   49.42         o.84
(GM, In January 1089 prIcen)
Phys cal /                  0.19    0.50      0.09   0.27    0.76    1.02    0.09    0.21   0.80    0.21    0.68    0.74    0.76    1.99        2.76
Price                       0- o0.    0.90    1.20   0.48    1.27    1.70    0.17    0.49   048    0.37    1.04    1.41         .27    8.70     4.97
Total Coat                    4.54   18.48    17.97   6.4d   16.94   25.40    2.48    7.26   9.74    5.47   16.40   20.95   18.96   66.11    74.06
=`     ===      =C=m MC    SMCER =         M m     = -     UM ==    X     -ma    -1==    MM       o      W=C
p/  65 of baa, coat  .tieto  xcluding: (1) running spetre and con_ubleo; and (11) conaultancy eervica totr "eration, maintanance and training.
/ Price eclation for both froelgn and local coat (exp   Id In US dollars) Ic beed on expected trad, wightd International annual Inflation rate of 7.71 In
1989. -1.21 In 1m00, 1.425 In 1991, 1.71 In 1992, and 8.81 In 99S, eawIng that excheng  rate wll, on avera, adjust to mIeltan purdhaing power petity
durtng the project luplmentation period.
/ Includes about U58250,000 In foreign *xcbange tor technical lericxa for rehabilitation of the 0T2 umit at DeIta.
0
_E5.
AP4117MSIS-l



NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATIN PROJECT
Casttal Cost Estimates bv Project Compon ntu
(in USS million)
Englneering/
Equipment,        Consultancy    TraAes A    Base Cost        Contigcse
Project Item                Material & Sires       Services v      uties      Estimate      P1hynl        Price      Total
B. Transmission Improvements
Local cost                      1.63                  0.95        2.74         6.32          0.22         0.83       6.67
Forelgn cost                    9.07                  4.11         -          18.18          0.73          1.00     14.91
Total                     10.70                 5.06         2.74        16.50         0.95          1.88     20.78
==                                =5 ==  _= ==
C. Distributilon Improvements
Local cost                      2.08                   -          8.48        5.49           0.27         0.41       6.17
Foreign cost                   11.42                   _                     11.42          0.57          0.07      12.88
Total                     18.46                  -           8.48      16.91           0.84          1.28      19.03
e3=                    _           =_        =3=_            =3             _    ==e
D. Metering Equipment
Local cost                     0.683                  -           1.0         1.66          0.08          0.18       1.89
Foreign cost                   8.60                                                         0.18          0.28       8.9'
Total                     4.13                   -           1.05       8.18           0.26          0.89      6.83
.33. ~  ~ 33       _3 3.=3                                =
E. Vehicles
Local cost                     1.44                   -          6.00         9.44           -            0.68       10.12
Foreign cost                   8.00                   _            _         8.00            -            0.67        8.67
Total                     9.44                   -         0.00        17.44            -            1.25      18.69
=                   =3        _ =            =               3=       .     =      .    =
F. Conversion of Egbin Plant to Gas
Local cost                      -                    0.07         0.08        0.10            -            -          0.10
Foreign cost                    -                    0.80           -         0.80                                    0.80
Totel                                           0.87         0.03       0.40            -             -          0.40       0
-=                    '3          3=          3=3=           =            =            =:    
0 t
AF41E127/ANNEX3-4



NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHADILITATION PROJECT
Capital Cost Estimates bk Prolect Components
(in USI oillion)
Enginerting/
Equipment,        Consultancy    Taxes        asees Cost   .Conttno encie
Project Item                Material & Spares     Services       Duties     Estimate       Physical     Prie-     Total
0.    Utility Partnership Program
Local cost                                           1.0         0.6       1.6               -         0.11      1.71
Foreign cost                                        6.0           -        6.0               -         0.43      6.43
Totsl                         -                 7.0          0.6       7.6               -         0.64      8.14
3=3                 ==3          =3    33                   3=         =           e3
H.    Data Processing
Local cost                       0.2                 -           0.3       0.5               -         0.04      0.54
Foreign cost                     1.0                 -            -        1.0               -         0.07      1.07
Total                       1.2                 -           0.3       1.6               -         0.11      1.61
I.    Training
Local cost                       0.3                  -          0.2       0.5               -         0.04      0.64
Foreign cost                     1.0                  -           -        1.0               -         0.07      1.07
Total                        1.3                 -           0.2       1.5               -         0.11      1.61
J.    Project Management
Local cost                                          0.2          0.1       0.3               -         0.02      0.32
Foreign cost                                        0.9                    0.9               -         0.06      0.96
Total                         -                 1.1          0.1       1.2               -         0.08      1.28
-                  =3          =e=        =3=            3=           =33
K.  Studies A Future Project
preparation
Local cost                        -                 0.2          0.1       0.3               -         0.02      0.32
Foreign cost                      -                 1.2           -        1.2              _          '.10      1.30
Total                                          1.4          0.1       1.S               -         0.12      1.62
=3=3                             =     z3                 =3       o 33         =3
0 t
AF4IE
January 19b9
AF41E127/ANNEX3-4



92
ANNEX 3-5
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Africa Region-wide Disbursement                     Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal      Profile for Power Projects        Cumulative 2       during        Cumulative
Year         (Cumulative Z Disbursement) a/    Disbursement       Semester      Di-bursement
--- (in US$ million) ---
FY90 - 12/31/89                2                           7           5.0 b/            5.0
06/30/90                7                         27           14.0              19.0
FY91 - 12/31/90               15                          56          20.0              39.0
06/30191              26                          77           15.0              54.0
FY92 - 12/31/91               37                          86           6.0              60.0
06/30/92              48                          91            4.0              64.0
FY93 - 12/31/92               57                          96           3.0              67.0
06/30/93              67                          99            2.0              69.0
FY94 - 12/31/93               74                         100           1.0              70.0
06/30/94              82
FY95 - 12/31/94               90
06/30/95              95
FY96 - 12/31/95               98
06/30/96             100
a/ Based on 38 power projects in the Africa Region financed by IBRD and IDA during
1978-1987.
b/ Includes repayment of PPF advance.
AF4IE
June 1989



- 93 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA - POWEP. SYSTEM MAItTEVANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Econonic Analysis
A. Key Assumptions
1.         Capital Costs.  The capital expenditures of NEPA's development
program (1989-93) are given in Annex 1-2. The economic costs were arrived
at by subtracting duties and taxes, and by converting the capital
expenditures in January 1989 prices, using inflation factors given in para
1 of Annex 2-7. A standard conversion factor of 0.84 was used to convert
local costs into economic costs.
2.         Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Costs.  Incremental annual
operating and maintenatice costs have been estimated at 2.5Z of cumulative
capital costs under the development program.
3.         Fuel Costs/SavinRs.  The economic cost of gas has been estimated
at US$l/MCF. To arrive at incremental fuel costs/savings, fuel costs with
and without the development program were estimated as shown belowt
Annual Fuel Costs
(in US$ million)
199?-
1098  109   1991  1092  1998  194  1905  1996  2668
With Devolopmant Program     111   109  lS   118   124   189   164   171   189
Without Development Program   l1S   128   189   189   189   189   189   139   189
Incremental Fuel Costs        -      -     -      -     -      a    1S    82    Be
Incremental Fuel Savings      4    17    24    28    16        -     -      -      -
4.         Incremental Eneray Served.  As a result of the development
program, technical losses are assumed to decrease by 1S per year during the
1989-93 period, i.e.. from 152 in 1988 to 102 in 1993. The estimates of
the incremental served demand under the development program are shown
below.
Annual Served Demand (GWh)
1997-
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    199S    1996    2003
With Development Program     16,919  11,688   12,601  18,876  14,812  16,814  16,888   17,688  18,621
Without Devolopment Program   10.919  11.688  12.601  11.966  11.9568  11.968  11.956  11.956  11.968
Incremental Served Demand
with the Dev-lopment Program     O    _           0   1.420   2t366   3.868   4.430   _6377   6.666



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
5.        Economic Value of Incremental Ener.y Served.  The incremental
served demand is valued, most conservatively, at tariffs which will be
charged by NEPA to achieve its financial objectives. As discussed in para
2.38 in Chapter II, NEPA's tariffs in nominal terms would have to. rise to
48.3 kobos/kWh in 1992, and 52.6 kobos/kWh in 1993 to achieve a return of
8X on revalued net fixed assets by 1993. These tariffs in January 1989
prices, are estimated at 34.5 kobos/kWh in 1992 and 1993. Therefore,
incremental energy served is valued at a tariff of USc51kWh in January 1989
prices (using %n exchange rate of US$1=N6.9).
B.  Results of Economic Analysis
6.        Economic Rate of Return.  The incremental cost and benefit
streams for economic rate of return calculations are shown in the table
below.
Costs                       Benefits
Value of
Investment     O&M    Fuel      Fuel     Incremental         Net
Expenditure   Costs   Costs   Savings   Energy Served   Benefits a/
---------(in US$ million)------------------------
1989            96           2       -         1.                      (94)
1990           168           7       -       17            _          (158)
1991           263          13       -       24            -          (252)
1992           239          19       -       26           71          (161)
1993           107          22       -       15          118             4
1994             -          22       -         -         168           146
1995             -          22      15         -         222          185
1996             -          22      32         -         279           225
1997-2003        -          22      50         -         333          261
(same every year)
a! Figures may not add because of rounding.
7.        The economic rate of return for the development program is
calculated at 18.4%.
C. Sensitivity Analysis Based on Consumers' Willingness to Pay
8.        NEPA's tariffs had remained unchanged since 1979 at about 7
kobos/kWh and were so low in relation to the resource cost of supplying
power that they provided no indication of the real economic value. Despite
the recent increase in June 1989 to about 27.5 kobos/kWh, tariffs are still
low. To arrive at an economic price for electricity, one approach
available is to estimate the consumers' willingness to pay, which, however,
can only be done imperfectly, on account of data constraints.



- 95 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
9.        At current tariffs, there Is a considerable suppressed load for
power from the system, as evidenced from the long lists of consumers
awaiting connection from NEPA, It is also known that a large
autogeneration capacity exists in the country. No reliable data on this
are, however, available. The World Bank's Energy Assessment Report (1983),
estimated the aistogeneration capacity in the country at that time at about
1,200-1,500 MW. Data on licenses issued for new autogeneration capacity,
plus renewals of licenses for the past three years alone, all of which
cover only a portion of the total capacity available, corroborates the
presence of at least 500 MW of captive generating sets with industrial and
commercial establishments, and more affluent households.
10.       Costs of generation from captive sources are high in Nigeria,
despite the relatively low domestic prices of diesel fuel, as shown in the
table below for various generator sizes.
Costs of Electricity from Privately Installed
Gen6rators in Nigeria
Technical Parameters
Generator Size (kVA)             10.5     21.0      32.0     52.0      75.0
Typical Power Factor              0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8
Max.Power Output (kW)             8.4     16.8      25.6     41.6        60
Fuel Consumed                 Diesel   Diesel   Diesel   Diesel   Diesel
Annual Usage (Hours)            3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000
Av. Capacity Factor              0.75     0.75      0.75     0.75      0.75
Annual Load Factor               0.25     0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25
Av.Energy Produced (Wdh)           19       38        58        94      135
Operating Life (Hrs)          10,000   10,000   10,000   12,000   12,000
Working Life (Yrs)                  5        5         5         7        7
Specific Fuel Consumption       0.45      0.45      0.45      0.4       0.4
(liters/kWh)
Financial Costs
Capital Cost (N)              65,400   91,200  108,000  189,000  255,600
Capital Annuity Factor e 12?  0.248    0.248    0.248    0.196    0.196
Annual Capital Cost (N)        16,199   22,589   26,750   36,976   50,006
Fixed O&M Cost/Year               654      912    1,080    1,890    2,556
Fuel Cost(kobosllitre)             30       30        30       30        30
Variable O&M Cost (kobos/kWh)       2        2         2         2        2
Average Variable Cost            15.5     15.5      15.4        14       14
(kobosIkWh)
Annual Variable Cost (N,        2,945    5,890    8,990   13,160   18,900
TotXl Annual Cost (N)         19,144   28,479   35,740   50,136   68,906
Average Cost (N/kWh)             1.01     0.75      0.62     0.53      0.51
11.       The above table presents cost data for a range of sizes of
diesel generating sets.  Costs are estimated on the assumption that
consumers' total power requirements are met from this source, so as to
maximize economies of scale. Estimates, therefore, represen. the lowest



-  96  -                         JEX
96                  ~~~~~ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
average costs of power from autegeneration. Capital costs are based on
actual retail price quotations in Nigeria, and include duties and taxes.
The same is true of fuel costs. Capital annuity factors are based on
estimated working lives of equipment, on the assumption that adequate
maintenance is carried out.
12.       The analysis shows that costs of generation of electricity from
private sources vary between 51 kobos/kWh (for large and medium sized
diesel generators used by industrial and large commercial units) and
Nl.01/kWh (for small commercial units and households).  Operating costs of
small generating sets are about double those of the large sets, and all
costs are significantly higher than prevailing electricity tariffs despite
the increase in June 1989. If private generators are used only on a
partial basis, purely as stand-by, their costs of operation would
undoubtedly be still higher. The above estimates may in fact be relatively
conservative even under the assumption of extensive usage. In actual
practice. industrial/commercial users really depending upon this source of
generation on a full-time basis would need the security of an additional
stand-by generator. They would, therefore, have to incur the additional
capital expense necessary for an additional stand-by generator.
13.       Although data on elasticity of demand for electricity is not
available at the present time, the average willingness to pay for all
classes of consumers is clearly higher than the level of the current
electricity tariff. Not only the industrial, commercial and high-income
household consumers are actually incurring significantly higher costs of
electricity supply through the necessity of installing expensive stand-by
generating capacity, even for low-income household consumers, who are not
connected to the grid and who cannot afford to install private generating
sets, actual costs of lighting through use of kerosene lamps are
considerably higher than reflected by the current tariff rate. The
estimated cost of using kerosene lamps is currently about 18.4 kobos/kWh
equivalent, or nea.ly three times the prevailing tariff level of about 7
kobos/kWh for households with monthly electricity consumption below 100
kWh.
Estimated Cost of Lighting in Nigeria Using Kerosene Lamps
1.   Cost of kerosene fuel                               20 kobos/litre
2.   Equivalent kWh per litre of kerosene                 3.4 kWh/litre
3.   Ratio of conversion efficiencies of kerosene         0.4
and electrical appliances
4.   Equivalent cost of utilizable energy                14.7 kobos/kWh
from kerosene = (1+2)+3
5.   Capital cost of kerosene lamp                        110
6.   Capital annuity factor at 122 and 3-yr life         0.372
7.   Equivalent capital cost over 100 kWh/year/lamp    3.72 kobos/kWh
(5*6)
8.   Total cost of using kerosene for lighting           18.42 kobos/kWh
equivalent (4+7)
14.       In the absence of accurate information on consumer
characteristics, an accurate estimate of an average "willingness to payu is



- 97 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
difficult to calculate. Financial analysis indicates that an average
tariff level of about 34.5 kobos/kWh in January 1989 prices will be needed
to enable NEPA to cover its costs and meet its proposed financial
objectives 1/. Yet, actual costs of electricity supply from standby
generating capacity being incurred by a substantial portion of electricity
consumers range between 51 to 101 koboslkWh (or even higher if usage is
intermittent, or back-up capacity has to be provided), which is up to three
times the proposed new tariff. Even after the tariff revision, it is
likely that a consumer surplus would continue to exist, the magnitude of
wh..ch is difficult to estimate without additional supporting data. It is.
however, not unreasonable to assume that average consumer "willingness to
pay' is high enough to be able to sustain a level of tariffs comparable to
those in some of Nigeria's neighboring countries. For example, tariffs in
Cote d'Ivoire, Togo and Benin are currently about 57 CFA1kWh, equivalent to
USd18 or 11.24/kWh. In Senegal, medium and low voltage tariffs are
currently 61 and 70 CFAIkWh, respectively (or USC20 and 23/kWh,
respectively - equivalent to N1.38 and 1.59/kWh). Consumers in neighboring
countries are, therefore, actually paying between N1.2/kWh and Nl.6/kWh.
Against this background, it is conservatively expected that consumers'
willingness to pay in Nigeria should be at least 40 to 50 kobos/kWh (or
USd5.8 to 7.2/kWh).
15.       While the economic rate of return, on the basis of an economic
price set at projected tariff levels, e.g., 34.5 kobos/kWh (USC5/kWh), is
calculated at 18.4Z, the sensitivity analysis using conservative estimates
of consumers' willingness to pay as a proxy for the economic value of
electricity indicates that the economic rate of return will increase to 222
with consumers' willingness to pay of 40 kobos/kWh (USC5.8/kWh), and to 28X
with consumers' willingness to pay of 50 kobos/kWh (USC7.2/kWh).
1/   As outlined in para 2.38, tariff policy for NEPA based upon the
financial projections detailed in Annex 2-6 would necessitate average
tariffs being raised to 48.3 kobos/kWh by 1992, and 52.6 kobos/kWh by
1993, at which point NEPA would be earning a rate of return of 82 on
revalued net fixed assets. Given the inflation rates assumed in
Annex 2-2, this works out to about 34.5 kobos/kWh in 1992 and 1993
(in January 1989 prices).
AP4IE
June 1989



98
ANNEX 5
NIGERIA - POWER SYSTEM HAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.     Technical Report prepared by P. Khirwadkar (consultant), October 1988.
B.     Reports prepared by NEPA,  NEPA Crash Program," June and September 1988.
C.     25-Year NEPA Power System Development Study prepared by Tractebel
Engineering  International   and  Oladipo  Ilumoka  and  Associates
(Cousultants), June 1988.
D.     Power System Improvement Project (Power VII), Draft Yellow Cover Staff
Appraisal Report, October 16, 1987.
AM4IE
December 1988
AF4IE128/NEPA.CVR



USRO 2132
>          /t                  C -,    -~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~                                        ~ ~~~~~rRt  N  G E R 
-.t<<                            4ffi9-
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
/nN  1                                        -                                                                                         C
0t                                                                                                                                                                 pgrR) ITArr<U.< _/   
FASO                                                                                                                                        muw 
* (@ \ 6sho                          LX                                           o        i <   t 5 % / AND REHABILITATION PROOECT
X NIGER4OXN            OCEAN                                                                                           ______wee____c_____R_O_O_N_s_______
I SJ     ZN.->iO  e  'ile.
JANUARY 19B9



