Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 16825
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3116-UNI)
June 30, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy 1
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      Nigerian Naira (N)
US$1.00      =       N6.90
N1.00 0           US$0.14
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer    =       0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (kin)   =      0.386 square miles
1 kilovolt (kV)   =       1,000 volts
1 megawatt (MW)              1,000 kilowatts
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)      =      1,000 kilovolt amperes
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)    =       1 million kilowatt hours
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)  =    10,500,000 kilocalories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      =     African Development Bank
DCA      =      Development Credit Agreement
FGN            Federal Government of Nigeria
GTC      =     Generation and Transmission Company
ICR     =      Implementation Completion Report
IDA     =      International Development Agency
MPS            Ministry of Mines, Power and Steel
NEPA      =      National Electric Power Authority
PICT     =      Project Implementation Coordination Team
SAR      =     Staff Appraisal Report
TCPC      =      Technical Committee for Privatization and
Commercialization
UPP      =     Utility Partnership Program
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Yaw Ansu
Task Manager: Alfred Gulstone
ICR prepared By: Alfred Gulstone



NIGERIA                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3116-UNI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ...................................................................i
Project Objectives ...................................................................i
Project Results and Implementation Experience ..................................................................   ii
Summary of Findings, anid Lessons Learned ..................................................................        ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction ..................................................................lI
B. Statement and Aclievement of Project Objectives ...............................................................2
C. Project Implementation Experience ...................................................................4
D. Bank Performance ...................................................................6
E. Borrower Performance ...................................................................6
F. Project Outcome, Sustainability and Future Operation .........................................................7
G. Major Lessons Learned ...................................................................8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND APPENDICES
Tables:
Table 1:             Summary of Assessments
Table 2:             Related Bank Loans
Table 3:             Project Timetable
Table 4:             Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:             Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:             Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:             Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:            Project Costs
Table 8B:            Project Financing
Table 9:             Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:            Status of Legal Covenants
Table I 1:           Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:            Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:            Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
Appendix A: Operational Plan
Map:
IBRD No. 21325R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3116-UNI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power System
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project for which Loan 3116-UNI in the amount of
US$70 million equivalent was approved on August 29, 1989 and made effective on
November 13, 1990.
The loan for the project was closed on December 31, 1995 and 96 percent of the
loan was disbursed. Co-financing was provided by German Commodity Aid and Krediet
Anstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW).
The ICR was prepared by Alfred Gulstone, Principal Power Engineer (AFTU 1),
and reviewed by Fauzia Najm under the supervision of Jeffrey Racki, Technical Manager,
AFTUI.
The content of the ICR is based on material in the project file and completion
information provided by the National Electric Power Authority (NEPA). NEPA provided
comments on the draft ICR and these have been incorporated. NEPA did not provide its
own completion report.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3116-UNI)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    As Nigeria's economy began to slow down in the early 1980s, the condition of the
electric power system began to deteriorate. As oil earnings declined so did the foreign
exchange available to maintain the power system. Furthermore, systematic maintenance
was not an integral part of the power system's operation and when oil prices and foreign
exchange earnings were higher there was a tendency to allow facilities to deteriorate and
then add new capacity. The result was a system which appeared to have over-capacity in
terms of units installed but a low level of availability. By the late 1 980s, with only 39 of
the 65 generating units functioning, and with many transmission components out of
service, the system had become highly unreliable, subject to frequent outages and on the
verge of total collapse. The National Electric Power Authority (NEPA), the state
enterprise in charge of operating the public electricity system, was in financial difficulty
because of limited power to sell, inadequate billing and collection systems, substantial
debt and low tariffs. In 1988, when the Bank appraised the project, it had experience
with six power projects in Nigeria. These projects had been successful in the physical
development of the power system but had not led to satisfactory institutional progress.
The Power Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Power VII) was an emergency
project responding to the system's severe supply constraint but also was to be an initial
step towards the commercialization of NEPA to improve its technical and financial
performance.
Project Objectives
2.    The Power System Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project had two main
objectives: (a) helping NEPA to implement overdue rehabilitation and maintenance of its
power system; and (b) improving the institutional framework for more reliable, efficient
system operation. The project also included covenants for meeting specific financial goals
in support of NEPA's commercialization. The project's objectives were clear and justified
by the system's diminished availability and outages. The project partially achieved its
objectives for physical improvements to the system and the commercialization of NEPA but
its achievements in improving NEPA's financial performance were negligible. To attain
the physical objectives, the project contained the following components : the rehabilitation
of seven inoperable generating units (606 MW); major overhauls of 10 operating units (850
MW); transmission system improvements; spare parts; training; metering equipment; and
vehicles. The implementation of the project's physical components was within the



- ii-
capability of the utility with the engineering services and technical assistance which the
project provided.
Project Results and Implementation Experience
3.    The project's main result was keeping the system from total collapse in order to
allow NEPA time to make important structural changes and plan for future investment
projects. The project completed most of its components but with a two-year delay. It
began about a year late due to a delay in completing co-financing arrangements for the
project, which was a condition of effectiveness. The original closing date of the project
was December 31, 1993. However, the project did not close until December 1995, to
allow NEPA time to complete components which were not part of the original project
but became part of the project during implementation because of their importance to the
safe, efficient operation of the power system: the emergency repair of the Kainji dam and
billing system improvements. The project completed the billing system improvements;
however, by the end of the second extension, FGN had not taken the necessary steps to
do the repair and the Bank closed the project.
4.    The key factors affecting project performance were devaluation of the Naira and
NEPA's lack of actual autonomy from the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN). The
devaluation affected NEPA's operations. There were two rates of exchange, one for the
Government entities, and one for the public. NEPA was unable to obtain sufficient
foreign exchange at the Government rate to support its operations; it was unable to buy
foreign exchange at the public rate because tariffs were not increased. The devaluation
reduced the amount of rehabilitation work the project could accomplish because of
increase costs per unit and subsequently adversely affected NEPA's finances by
increasing the cost debt service. In theory NEPA became a commercialized entity during
the project's implementation program. However, in practice, NEPA lacked sufficient
autonomy from FGN for timely procurement and obtaining the necessary revenue to meet
financial requirements. The performance of the Bank overall was satisfactory. NEPA's
performance was satisfactory in project preparation. However, its performance in
implementing the project and complying with covenants was deficient, mainly due to the
company's lack of autonomy from FGN.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
5.    The project was satisfactory in preventing total power system collapse and helped
initiate the process of commercializing NEPA. However, the scale of the rehabilitation
effort was lower than anticipated at appraisal; the project did not meet some important
financial objectives; and the sustainability of the project's achievements is uncertain.
Therefore this ICR rates the outcome as only marginally satisfactory. The sustainability
of the project's achievements is uncertain because NEPA, in practice, does not have the
autonomy and the resources to ensure adequate maintenance of facilities. The project's
operational plan, attached as Appendix C, outlines the essential elements necessary to
sustain and build upon project achievements: solidifying institutional change; continuing



- iii -
rehabilitation in the medium term; and planning for long-term development. A follow-up
project, the Power System Rehabilitation and Development Project (Power VIII) was
prepared in 1992 but never finalized. However, it continues to serve as a basis of
dialogue with FGN on the future of Nigeria's power system. Its objective would be to
help FGN restructure the power system according to the multiple utilities model which
would restructure NEPA as a generation and transmission company which would sell
power and capacity to regional distribution companies. The main lessons learned in the
project are the following:
(a)   Institutional deficiencies are the source of NEPA's technical and financial
problems and any project that attempts a technical solution without a
major institutional change that guarantees autonomy in operations will
produce results that are not sustainable and waste scarce investment
resources.
(b)   In co-financing arrangements for power system rehabilitation projects, or
other projects which have components that are not interdependent,
conditionality that requires all agreements to be in place before the project
as a whole can start can be counter-productive and delays, especially in the
case of an emergency rehabilitation project, can be costly.
(c)   With hindsight, given more than a decade of experience with FGN
reluctance to approach tariff-setting on an economic basis, the Bank
should have kept the clause to provide a safety net to help NEPA meet the
project's financial objectives.
(d)   For a state-owned power company in a very weak technical and financial
position, the partnership with an experienced, efficiently managed utility
should be considered an investment in improved power system
performance in all areas. By granting NEPA autonomy to raise tariffs,
FGN could have helped NEPA obtain a greater return from the
partnership, by allowing the improvement in the system's technical
performance to be reflected in financial returns to the utility.



I



NIGERIA
POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3116-UNI)
PART I:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   INTRODUCTION
1.    The condition of Nigeria's electric power system began to decline in the early
1980s, as the economy, heavily dependent on oil revenues, slowed down after
international oil prices declined. The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN), facing a
major financial crisis, did not have sufficient foreign exchange to properly maintain the
power system. Furthermore, systematic maintenance was not an integral part of the power
system's operation. In an era of high oil revenues, there was a tendency to allow facilities
to deteriorate and then add new capacity. The result was a system which appeared to
have over-capacity in terms of units installed. However, the system also had a low level
of capacity availability. By the late 1980s, with only 39 of the 65 generating units
functioning, and with many transmission components out of service, the system had
become highly unreliable, subject to frequent outages and on the verge of total collapse.
The installation of expensive private captive generating capacity had grown to
compensate for unstable power supply from the public electricity system, which the
National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) operated. NEPA's revenue base was eroding
due to a combination of limited system availability, competition from private generating
capacity; high losses, inadequate billing and collection, substantial debt and low tariffs.
2.   In 1987 the Bank had appraised the Power System Improvement Project, which
was to finance an ambitious power system recovery and development program at a total
cost in the order of US$900 million. However, the Bank did not proceed with the project
because Ministry of Mines Power and Steel (MPS) was not taking sufficient measures to
grant NEPA sufficient autonomy for it to operate efficiently. Realizing that it could take
a long time for NEPA to obtain this autonomy in practice, the Bank instead decided to
take a cautious approach, financing a series of modest size projects (US$75-100 million)
and assisting in NEPA's commercialization. As a first step in this process, the Bank
approved the Power System Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Power VII) in 1989
to assist Nigeria in a selective emergency maintenance and rehabilitation program for
restoring system reliability. The project also was to support the commercialization of
NEPA which was part of FGN's enterprise reform program. Prior to Power VII, the
Bank had made six loans to Nigeria for the power sector (Part II, Table 2). These projects
had been successful in the physical development of the power system but had not led to
satisfactory institutional progress.



- 2 -
B.    STATEMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The Power System Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project had two main
objectives: (a) helping NEPA to implement overdue rehabilitation and maintenance of its
power system; and (b) improving the institutional framework for more reliable, efficient
system operation. The project also included covenants for meeting specific financial goals
in support of NEPA's commercialization. The project partially achieved its objectives for
physical improvements to the system and the commercialization of NEPA but its
achievements in improving NEPA's financial performance were negligible.
4.    The project's rehabilitation and maintenance of selected generation, transmission
and distribution facilities was a high priority as evidenced by the system's diminished
availability and outages. To attain the physical objectives, the project contained the
following components : the rehabilitation of seven inoperable generating units (606
MW); major overhauls of 10 operating units (850 MW); transmission system
improvements; spare parts; training; metering equipment; and vehicles. The project
component also included engineering services for the supervision and monitoring of the
conversion of the Egbin thermal power plant to gas operation. The implementation of the
project's physical components was within the capability of the utility with the engineering
services and technical assistance which the project provided.
5.    The project's main achievement in terms of physical plant was keeping the system
from total collapse in order to allow NEPA time to make important structural changes and
plan for future investment projects. Start up delays and devaluation of the Naira led to
increased rehabilitation costs per unit. As a result, the project only could help rehabilitate
about a third of the capacity planned at appraisal, even with allocating more funds than
planned to generation improvements. It rehabilitated and returned to service about 610
MW of generation, which accounted for about 23 percent of NEPA's available capacity at
the time of project appraisal.
6.    The generation rehabilitation work covered the following capacity: 134 MW at the
Afam power station ( two 67-MW gas turbine units); 476 MW at the Sapele power station,
(two 67-MW gas turbine units); and three 114-MW steam units. The project also
completed most of the related operations and maintenance training and helped improve the
reliability of the transmission and distribution system by financing spare parts. The
improvements to the transmission system resulted mainly from technical inputs, such as
assistance from project consultants in setting relays. However, despite system
improvements losses remained high during the project's implementation, about 30 percent
of generation. The project was not able to make enough improvements to the distribution
system to reduce technical losses and the completion of the new billing system, a key factor
in reducing non-technical losses was not completed until the end of the project.
7.    The second major objective was to help strengthen NEPA's operational capability in
delivering a reliable, economic supply of electricity to its customers. This strengthening
was to be an essential step in the eventual commercialization of NEPA. Many of the



- 3 -
system's operational problems had resulted from external constraints on management, the
lack of an adequate reward system to motivate staff, and insufficient foreign exchange for
spare parts. Other factors which adversely affected performance were: the lack of an
adequate preventive maintenance program; FGN's cumbersome approval process for
contracts; and inadequate staff training. The project had three components to support
institutional strengthening: technical assistance from an experienced partner utility; studies
and preparation work for future projects to prepare a least-cost priority investment program;
and consultant service to help project implementation and management.
8.    To strengthen NEPA's financial position, the project's legal covenants specified
financial targets for NEPA to achieve during the project's implementation period (Part II,
Table 10). These targets included earning a 6-8 percent minimum rate of return on fixed
assets in operation, contributing at least 30 percent of its annual investment program from
internal sources; and incorporating in the tariff structure a provision for adjusting tariffs in
line with fuel costs. The covenants were very ambitious at the time of appraisal given
NEPA's financial problems and their achievement hinged on the commitment of FGN to
quickly translate intentions for commercialization of NEPA into supportive policy actions,
which did not materialize during the project's implementation period.
9.    The achievement of the project's institutional objectives was important given the
deteriorating physical state of the system, which stemmed directly from institutional
deficiencies and the lack of a solid program for change. Essentially NEPA operated more
like a government department than a corporate entity. Often politically expedient
measures overshadowed staff decision making. A clear set of rules was lacking
concerning functions which FGN was to delegate NEPA. The Bank believed that
without serious action for institutional change, continued financing of the power sector
would produce only temporary improvements and perpetuate an inefficient unstable
power system. Overall, NEPA's management and operations improved with the technical
assistance under the project. The main achievements were detailed diagnostic evaluation
of the company's operations, successful completion of the project's physical components,
reduced outages, and improvements in the accounting and billing system. However
improvements in the authority's financial situation were negligible.
10.   The project's Utility Partnership Program (UPP) was a collaboration between an
experienced efficient power utility and NEPA in the operation of NEPA's power system
for three years. The UPP prepared a comprehensive set of diagnostic studies covering:
generation, transmission, distribution, meter reading, billing and collection systems,
finance, organization, and personnel and training. These studies were extremely valuable
in development planning for NEPA, providing the utility and the Bank with an
information base to make decisions on future system development. The diagnostic work
led to a least-cost expansion program for the period 1992-201 1. The key elements of the
plan are the following: no new plant acquisitions before 2001; the rehabilitation ofthe
Kainji hydropower plant and the remaining three steam units and Afam III gas turbines;
the use of modern, baseload gas turbines for any additional thermal capacity. On the basis
of the diagnostic work and the expansion plan. the Bank and NEPA agreed on priority



- 4 -
actions which became the objectives of the Power System Rehabilitation and
Development Project (Power VIII).
11.   During the project's implementation, NEPA became a partially commercialized
entity according to FGN's Privatization and Commercialization Decree. This designation
meant that NEPA was supposed to generate enough revenue to cover its operating
expenses and contribute partially to its investment program. FGN was to continue
financing NEPA, which was to operate as a purely commercial enterprise subject only to
the FGN's regulatory authority. NEPA's Board of Directors was to be the main decision-
making body for NEPA, providing strategic guidance to the management based on
guidelines from the FGN. As a first step in commercialization, NEPA prepared a
corporate plan and submitted it to the Government and the Technical Committee for
Privatization and Commercialization (TCPC). Discussions among FGN, NEPA and
TCPC led to a revised corporate plan. NEPA and the Ministry of Power and Steel
signed a performance contract that defined the lines of authority between NEPA and
FGN. However, the contract was not enforced and NEPA had to seek approval of MPS
even for small spare parts orders.
12.   During the project's implementation, FGN and the Bank took some initial steps
toward planning the restructuring of the power sector. The Bank organized a workshop
in November 1992 to discuss various options for power sector development. The
workshop included representatives from FGN, NEPA, Bank staff and consultants
experienced in power utility restructuring from Chile, New Zealand, and the United
Kingdom. Most of the options presented involved breaking the utility into main
finctional components and attempting to introduce private participation either through
direct investment or by performance-based management contracts. (para. 17)
C.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Implementation Record
13.   The project completed most of its components but with a two year delay. It
began about a year late due to a delay in completing co-financing arrangements for the
project, which was condition of effectiveness. The original closing date of the project was
December 31, 1993. The Bank extended the project's closing to December 31 1994 to
allow NEPA time to complete components which were not part of the original project
but became part of the project during implementation because of their importance to the
safe, efficient operation of the power system: the emergency repair of the Kainji dam and
billing system improvements. A second closing date extension, to December 31, 1995,
was necessary because a political crisis had delayed clearance of the necessary
documents for Kainji dam repair. However, by the end of the second extension, FGN had
not taken the necessary steps to do the repair and the Bank closed the project. Overall the
project took about five years to complete: November 1990 to December 1995 (Part II,
Table 3).
14.   Total project cost amounted to US$ 140.1 million, about 10 percent lower than the



original estimate of US$154.6 million; this was due mainly to the lower cost of the
transmission and distribution components which outweighed the higher costs of the
generation improvements (Table 8A). The only significant change in the project's
financing arrangements was a lower contribution from NEPA, due to lower local costs
and increased financing from co-financiers (Table 8B). The Bank financed 48 percent of
total project costs with loan disbursements amounting to US$67.9 million, or 97 percent
of the original loan amount (US$70 million).
Factors Affecting Project Implementation
15.   Factors Outside Control of the Borrower. The Bank expected Nigeria's
economy to be stable during the project's implementation period but instead it took an
unpredicted downturn and became highly unstable, with inflation at times in the order of
50-100 percent. The general economic climate constrained the physical rehabilitation of
the system and institutional changes. The Naira devaluation resulted in increased cost of
NEPA's foreign debt service and spare parts. Furthermore, both inflation and devaluation
increased the overall costs of maintaining the power system. Given the unfavorable
economic climate, FGN became less inclined to allow NEPA the autonomy it was
supposed to have and make important supportive policy changes such as tariff increases
and gas price increases.
16.   During the project's implementation, the Bank discovered that because of a
problem with the emergency spillway and the leakage under the saddle dam, the dam for
the Kainji hydroelectric plant was unsafe. This plant, which had been operational since
1968, was overdue for a major overhaul. An inspection of the plant found inoperable
gates that would prevent full operation of the spillway in the event of a flood and that,
without correction, dam failure would cause a 30-meter high wave that would destroy the
surrounding area for many kilometers, resulting in thousands of downstream casualties.
In 1992, the Bank agreed with NEPA to allocate project funds for consultants to
recommend a solution and manage the work of contractors to do the repairs. However,
FGN's approval took too long to allow the work to be financed under the project. As a
result FGN funded the repair work from its own resources.
17.   The main factor that constrained NEPA's performance was the lack of sufficient
autonomy from FGN to ensure the timely completion of project components and the
utility's ability to meet the project's financial covenants. FGN did not allow NEPA to
increase tariffs to offset increased costs and meet financial objectives. Also, FGN did set
a much lower level of procurement subject to government approval than agreed under the
performance contract and subjected NEPA to a cumbersome, bureaucratic approval
procedure. According to a performance contract with the Ministry of Mines, Power and
Steel (MPS), NEPA was to have authority to award contracts of up to N50 million
without MPS approval. However, in practice NEPA had to seek MPS approval for
contracts over N 15 million meaning that the company could not even proceed with
relatively small spare parts orders on its own. In addition FGN required a special form
for imports and the waiting period for approval was up to six months. As a result,



- 6 -
average time between the order and delivery of parts was about two years.
Factors within Control of the Borrower
18.   The main factors that affected project implementation, which were subject to the
control of the Borrower, were the timely, effective implementation of the project's
components and reporting on implementation progress. NEPA established the Project
Implementation Coordination Team (PICT), as required and kept the PICT in operation
throughout the project. NEPA did a good job preparing documents and evaluating bids
for the project's goods and services, but unfortunately its attempts at timely
implementation were constrained by the bureaucracy of the FGN approval process.
Nevertheless, NEPA's diligence in executing its tasks in the procurement process helped
to mitigate project delays. Timely reporting on implementation progress contributed to
the quality of project monitoring and to the decision-making process, especially
concerning project modifications. The compliance with financial covenants was
originally supposed to be within NEPA's capability, assuming FGN provided NEPA with
the authority to have an impact in its finances. However, the lack of sufficient autonomy
put compliance with many of the project's covenants outside NEPA's control.
D.  BANK PERFORMANCE
19.   Bank performance overall was satisfactory. The preparation of the project
benefited from more than a decade of discussion with FGN on power sector development
and the Bank's gradual approach to participation in Nigeria's power sector was sound.
The Bank focused mainly on the emergency needs of the NEPA system and initiated
some institutional improvements, making the project essentially a bridge to future power
development under a completely new structure. The project's appraisal benefited from
extensive preparation and an Energy Assessment which had identified the main power
sector issues. In supervision, the Bank was diligent in stressing to FGN the seriousness
of the Kainji Dam problem and was flexible in modifying the project to fund the cost of
repairs and the need for billing system improvements. The Bank also made a major effort
to sustain and expand the achievements under Power VII. Within the first two years of
the project's implementation it became clear that the power sector's rehabilitation and
institutional needs were way beyond the capacity of Power VII and the Bank appraised a
follow-up project (Power VIII).
E.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
20.   The Borrower for the Project was NEPA with FGN as the guarantor. NEPA's
perfornance was satisfactory in project preparation. NEPA also did a very good job in
the implementation of tasks directly under its control such as the preparation and
evaluation of bidding documents, and reporting on the projects implementation progress.
Despite this satisfactory performance, project implementation was delayed due to FGN's
slow procurement process. NEPA's compliance with covenants was deficient mainly



- 7 -
because the authority did not meet the financial objectives which the covenants specified.
However, the lack of compliance was mainly due to inadequate autonomy from FGN.
F.    PROJECT OUTCOME, SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION
21.   The project was mainly a stopgap measure to avert total power system collapse
and begin the process of commercializing NEPA. In this respect, the project's outcome
was satisfactory. However, the scale of the rehabilitation effort was lower than
anticipated at appraisal; the project did not meet some important financial objectives; and
the sustainability of the project's achievements is uncertain. Therefore, this ICR rates the
outcome as only marginally satisfactory.
22.   The sustainability of the project's achievements is uncertain because NEPA, in
practice, does not have the autonomy and the resources to ensure adequate maintenance
of facilities. According to sound utility practice, supervision reports have indicated that
NEPA will need to spend about US$ 100 million annually on maintaining its generation
facilities alone. This is a small amount compared to annual losses due to system outages
which prior to the project cost Nigeria's economy upwards of US$1 billion annually.
However, NEPA's budget allocates virtually no funds for maintenance. Project
experience has indicated that NEPA will not be able to maintain the power system
without increased autonomy, restructuring, and privatization of some of the authority's
functions. The project's operational plan, attached as Appendix C, outlines the essential
elements necessary to sustain and build upon project achievements: solidifying
institutional change; continuing rehabilitation in the medium term; and planning for long-
term development.
23.  In 1992 the Bank prepared a draft appraisal report for a follow up project-- the
Power System Rehabilitation and Development Project (Power VIII). The objectives of
this proposed project reflect priority actions in the operational plan for Power VII. The
objective of the proposed Power VIII project was to help NEPA rectify weaknesses
identified by in the diagnostic phase of the UPP under Power VII. The two key elements
of the operational plan which the proposed project would support are: reinforcing the
supply system to improve the quality of service to NEPA's customers; increasing
revenues to cover operating and maintenance costs; and eventually contributing to about
30 percent of the investment program.
24.   Although the Power VIII project was never finalized, it serves as a basis for
continued dialogue with FGN on the future of Nigeria's power system. Proceeding with
the project will be contingent on macroeconomic stabilization and the restructuring of the
power sector. The basic approach in restructuring is to look at each part of the system
and decide the best way to manage it. After reviewing several restructuring options, the
Bank, FGN and NEPA have agreed that the "multiple utilities option" is the most
appropriate one for meeting the power system's needs. This option would involve
restructuring NEPA to form a generation and transmission company (GTC) and creating
regional distribution companies (DCs) that would purchase capacity and energy from the



- 8 -
GTC but not be confined to GTC supply. The DCs could operate under public, private or
joint public/private ownership. They could purchase electricity from generating
companies that would have the right to access the transmission system and be subject to
appropriate licensing arrangements covering technical safety and environmental maters.
G.  MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
25.   The major lessons learned from the project are the following:
*  Institutional deficiencies are the source of NEPA's technical and financial problems
and any project that attempts a technical solution without a major institutional change
that guarantees autonomy in operations will produce results that are not sustainable
and waste scarce investment resources. Therefore the priority for any follow on
project should be a restructuring that will allow the company to manage its physical
plant and financial resources efficiently and provide reliable electricity service to its
customers according to sound international utility practice. Also given the long
history of NEPA's operating problems as a state-owned enterprise, the large private
sector in Nigeria, and the country's well-developed financial system, the privatization
of at least the transmission and distribution parts of the utility appears to be the most
efficient way to meet power system needs.
*  In co-financing arrangements for power system rehabilitation projects, or other
projects which have components that are not interdependent, conditionality that
requires all agreements to be in place before the project as a whole can be counter
productive. In the case of the Power VII Project, the delay in the conclusion of one
agreement caused a year's delay in the entire project, and constrained the project from
taking the emergency actions for which it was designed.
*  In designing the Power VII Project, the Bank originally wanted to include an
automatic fuel adjustment clause so that NEPA would not have to request a tariff
increase from FGN in the event of increased fuel costs. Under pressure from FGN,
the Bank ultimately dropped this requirement. With hindsight, given more than a
decade of experience with FGN reluctance to approach tariff-setting on an economic
basis, the Bank should have kept the clause to provide a safety net to help NEPA meet
the project's financial objectives.
*  For a state-owned power company in a very weak technical and financial position, the
partnership with an experienced, efficiently managed utility should be considered an
investment in improved power system performance in all areas. From this
perspective, by granting NEPA autonomy to raise tariffs, FGN could have helped
NEPA obtain a greater return from the partnership, by allowing the improvement in
the system's technical performance to be reflected in financial returns which would
help the company maintain an acceptable level of system reliability and restore
customer confidence.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND APPENDICES



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES AND APPENDICES
Tables:
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
Appendix A: Operational Plan



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment        Substantial     Partial       Negligible     Not Applicable
Categories
Macroeconomic Policies                                                    X
Sector Policies                                          X
Financial Objectives                                     X
Institutional                             X
development
Physical objectives         X
Gender concerns                                                           X
Other social objectives                                                   X
Environmental                                 _                           X
Public sector                                            X
management
Private sector                                                            X
development
Other                                                                     X
B. Project Sustainability
Likely                    Uncertain                    Unlikely
x



Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
C. Bank Performance
Stage of Project    Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory           Deficient
Cycle
Identification                                   X
Preparation                                      X
Appraisal                                        X
Supervision                                      X
D. Borrower Performance
Stage of Project    Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory           Deficient
Cycle
Preparation                                      X
Implementation                                   X
Covenant                                                              x
Compliance
E. Assessment of Outcome
Highly        Satisfactory     Marginally     Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
x



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Preceding Operations
Title          : Power I
Loan no.       :372-UNI
Year of approval: 1964
Purpose        : Extend the 330 and 132-kV national transmission system; sub-transmission
and distribution for Lagos, Port Harcourt, and Ibadan.
Amount         : US$42.3 million
Status         : Closed.
Title           : Power II
Loan no.        : 383-UNI
Year of approval : 1964
Purpose         : Construction of the Kainji hydroelectric station (four, 80-MW units) and
associated 330-k-V transmission system.
Amount          : US$82.0 million
Status          : Closed.
Title           : Power III
Loan no.        : 572-UNI
Year of approval: 1968
Purpose         : Finance the cost increases of the Kainji project and extend the 330-kV
transmission system.
Amount          : US$16.5 million
Status          : Closed.
Title           : Power IV
Loan no.        : 847-UNI
Year of approval: 1972
Purpose         : Extension of the Kainji project and second 330-kV transmission line to
Lagos, and extensions of the 330-kV transmission grid and village
electrification.
Amount          : US$76.0 million
Status          : Closed.



Table 2: Related Bank Loans (Continued)
Title          : Power V
Loan no.       : 1766-UNI
Year of approval: 1979
Purpose        : Expansion of the distribution system for metropolitan Lagos; training and
institution-building, additional emergency spares, etc.
Amount         : US$100.0 million
Status         : Closed.
Title          : Power VI
Loan no.       : 2085-UNI
Year of approval : 1982
Purpose        : Construction of the transmission system/substations linking the Igbin
power plant to the 330-kV grid and 132-kV Lagos distribution network;
132 through 11-kV distribution facilities; training; and institutional
strengthening.
Amount         : US$100.0 million
Status         : Closed.
Following Operations
Title          : Power System Rehabilitation and Development Project
Loan no.       : NA
Year of approval : NA
Purpose        : Support the commercialization program for NEPA; rehabilitate and develop
parts of NEPA's power system to improve power supply reliability; and
help in further institutional strengthening, partly through private sector
participation.
Amount         : US$150.0 million (proposed)
Status         : Under discussion.
NA=Not applicable



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle          Date planned             Date actual/estimate
Identificationi              March 1988                  March 1988
Preparation                  March - September 1988      March - September 1988
Appraisal                   September 1988               September 1988
Negotiations                April 1989                   April 1989
Letter of development policy   NA                        NA
Board presentation          August 1989                  August 1989
Signing                                                  June 11990
Effectiveness               October 1989                 November 13, 1990
Project completion          August 1995                  August 1996
Credit closing              December 31, 1993            December 31, 1995
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ million equivalent)
Fiscal Years                 1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Appraisal Estimate           19.0    54.0    64.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0
Actual                       0.0      3.5     11.6    28.5    40.0    55.5    67.9
Actual as % of estimate       --      6.5    18.1    40.7    57.1    78.6    95.9
Date of last disbursement: May 22, 1996
Source: Bank MIS and Bank staff estimates.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in the               Estimated         Actual/ICR
SAR/President's Report                                                estimate
Rehabilitation/overhauls of seven generating units  1989-91            1989-95
out of service at Afam, Delta and Sapele power
stations
Overhauls of ten units in operation at the Afam and  1989-91           1989-95
Sapele power stations
Technical services for operations, maintenance and  1989 - 1991        1989-94
training for generation
Transmission system improvements                    1989 -92           1989-93
Distribution system improvements                    1989-91            1989-94
Meter procurement and installation                  1989 -91           1989-94
Vehicle acquisition                                 1989 -91           1989-91
Egbin Plant conversion for gas use                    1989              1989
Institutional strengthening                         1989 -93           1989-94
Additional Indicators
Repair of the Kainji Dam                              1995             1996 1/
Billing System Improvements                         1993-95            1993-95
1/ Completed with funds from the Government after the project was closed.
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation.
Not applicable to this project.
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                      Purpose          J           Impact
Investment Program          Studies necessary for the   Completed. Generation
preparation of a least-cost  expansion studies available
investment program         for investment planning.
Project Preparation         Studies required to prepare  Completed. Power VIII
investment projects for     project prepared but not
international financing    financed because of
institutional concerns.
Source: Project files and Bank staff estimates.



Table 8A: Project Costs (in million US$ equivalent)
Item           Appraisal Estimate (US$mm)   Actual/latest estimate (US$mm)
Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign     Total
costs     costs      costs      costs     costs      Costs
Physical
Components
Generation             16.9       494       66.3       I1.0       69.6       80.0
Improvements
Transmission            5.3       13.2      18.5        --        10.5       10.5
improvements
Distribution            5.5       11.4      16.9                  6.9        6.9
Improvements
Metering equipment      1.7       3.5        5.2        --        3.5        3.5
Vehicles                9.4       8.0        17.4       6.5        --        6.5
Conv. of Egbin to       0.1       0.3        0.4        --         --        --
operation on gas
Base Cost              38.9       85.8      124.7      17.5       90.8      108.3
Physical Contingency    1.4       3.5        4.9       14.3        --        14.3
Price contingency
2.9       6.4        9.3        --         --        --
Subtotal               43.2       95.7      138.9      31.8       90.8      122.6
Institutional
Strengthening
Utility Assistance
Program                 1.6       6.0        7.6        --        5.0        5.0
Data Processing         0.5       1.0        1.5        3.6       2.4        5.9
Training                0.5       1.0        1.5        --         --        --
Subtotal                6          0         10.6       3.6       7.4        10.9
Project Management      0.3       1.0        1.3        0.9       4.0        4.9
Studies/Future         0.3        1.3        1.6        --        0.1        0.1
Project Prep.
Refinancing of PPF      --        1.5        1.5                  1.5        1.5
Advance
TOTAL COST             46.4      107.5      153.9      36.2      103.9      140.1
Source: Project files and NEPA



Table 8B: Project Financing
(in US$ million equivalent)
Source    ]        Appraisal estimate        )       Actual/latest estimate
Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign     Total
costs      costs       costs      costs       costs      Costs
IBRD                          70.0       70.0                   67.9        67.9
Fed. Rep. of
Germany
Gerrnan                       15.4       15.4                   19.1        19.1
Commodity
Aid
KFW Loan                      9.1         9.1                    11.9       11.9
UK/ODA Grant                  5.0         5.0                    5.0         5.0
Supplier's                    8.6         8.6        6.5                     6.5
Credit
NEPA Internal     20.5                   20.5        9.7                     9.7
Funds
Federal           26.0                   26.0        20.0                   20.0
Government of
Nigeria
TOTAL             46.5       108.1       154.6       36.2       103.9       140.1
Source: Project files and NEPA
Table 9: Economic costs and Benefits
After repeated requests, starting in August 1996, insufficient data has been received to
re-estimate the project's economic rate of return. The projected economic rate of return was
18.4%.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Covenant       Covenant description, status and comments
Section       type
Loan          Project       Borrower to implement project with due diligence and efficiency in
Agreement   Execution       conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices.
3.01 (a)                   Partial compliance.
3.01 (b)     Project       Borrower to maintain a project implementation team to ensure
Execution     effective project execution.
Compliance.
3.02          Project       Procurement of goods, works and services to follow the provisions
Execution     of Schedule 4 of the PA.
Compliance.
4.01          Management  Borrower to conduct operations in line with sound utility practices
and           under the supervision of qualified management with adequate staff.
Operations    Partial compliance.
4.02          Management  Borrower to maintain plant, equipment, etc. in accordance with
and           sound utility practice.
Operations    Partial compliance.
4.03          Management  Borrower to take out and maintain insurance against risks in
and           appropriate amounts.
Operations    Compliance.
5.01(a)      Financial      Borrower to maintain records on its operations and financial
condition in accordance with sound accounting practice.
Compliance.
5.01 (b), (i)    Financial  Borrower to have records, financial statements and Special Account
audited for each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank.
Delayed compliance.
5.01(b), (ii)   Financial   Borrower to fumish Bank with audit reports and certified copies of
.  financial statements for each FY of the project, within six months
after the end of the fiscal year.
Delayed compliance.
5.01(b), (iii)  Financial   Borrower to furnish the Bank such other information concerning
records and accounts as reasonably requested by the Bank.
Compliance.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement   Covenant        Covenant Description, Status and Comments
Section       Type
5.01 (c)      Financial     For withdrawals under the Loan Account the Borrower is to
maintain adequate records and accounts; retain all records at least I
year after the audit report; enable Bank representatives to examine
the records, and ensure that the records are included in the annual
audit.
Compliance.
5.02 (a)     Financial      Borrower to take all action necessary to earn an annual return on the
average net value of fixed assets in operation, as follows: 6% for
FY91, 7% for FY 92; and 8% for FY 93 and thereafter.
Non-compliance.
5.02 (b)     Financial      Borrower to review whether it will be able to meet requirements of
section 5.02 (a) and furnish results of the review to the Bank
Partial compliance.
5.03 (a)      Financial     Borrower to produce funds from internal sources equivalent to at
least 30 % of the FY90 annual investment program and continue to
produce this level of funds for each additional FY of the project.
Non- compliance.
5.03 (b)     Financial      Before October 31 of each fiscal year, Borrower to review whether
it will meet the requirements of section 5.03 (a) and furnish a copy
of the review to the Bank. If the review shows the Borrower will
not meet the requirements, the Borrower is to take all necessary
measures to meet them.
Non-compliance.
5.05 (a)     Financial      NEPA not to incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the
ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 40 to 60.
Non-compliance
5.07          Financial     NEPA to incorporate into its tariff structure appropriate provisions
for electricity rates to be adjusted to changes in the cost of fuels to
NEPA.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable to this project.



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of        Planned              Actual
project cycle
Weeks    US$       Weeks       US$
Through
appraisal                           20.8
Appraisal        -                  55.6
Negotiations
through
Board
approval                            18.4
Supervision                        215.1
Completion                            4.5
(--) Planned data not available consistently throughout the project cycle for meaningful
comparison with actual data.
NA=not applicable
Source: Bank MIS and Bank staff estimates
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project    Month/Year   Number of    Days in    Specialized    Performance    Types of
cycle                         persons      field      staff skills     rating      problems
._____ ______ _____   __ __ __ __ __ _represented
Preparation
Preparation 1           1/84           1           10           FA            NA
Preparation 2          2-3/85          2           11         FA, PE          NA
Preparation 3          02/86           1           18           PA            NA
Preparation 4          05186           6           6          FA, 2PE         NA
Preparation 5         10-11/86         7           22       FA, EC, PE,
OA, CA, SC,
GM



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Stage of project    Month/Year   Number of    Days in    Specialized    Performance    Types of
cycle                        persons       field     staff skills     rating      problems
represented
Appraisal through
Board approval
Appraisal 1            04/87          5            17       EC,FA, PE,
PO, TS          NA
09/87          2            9         EC, FA          NA
Post-Appraisal I
05/88          1           11           PE            NA
Post-Appraisal 2
Appraisal 2          09-10/96         6           19       EC, 2FA, PA,
OP, TS          NA
Post-Negotiations    06-07/89          1          11           YP            NA
Supervision
Supervision 1          08/89          2           11         FA, PE          NA            EFF
Supervision 2          06/90           1          12           PE            NA            EFF
Supervision 3          05/91          2           12         FA, PE           3
Supervision 4          04/92          2           15         FA, PE           2            FIN
Supervision 5          12/93          2           10         EC, PE           2         OBJ, COV
Supervision 6          06/94
Supervision 7          06/95          2            9          2PE
Completion               *            *            *            *             *             *
Notes:
* There was no completion mission for this project.
Specialization codes: EC=Economist; FA=Financial Analyst; PE=Power Engineer,
CA=Computing Activities Specialist; SC=Systems Control and Transmission Specialist;
and GM=General Maintenance.; PO=Project Officer; TS=Training Specialist.;
OP=Operations Officer
Problem Codes: EFF = effectiveness; FIN = financial; OBJ = project objectives; COV
covenants



Appendix A
Page 1 of 2
POWER SYSTEM MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3116-UNI)
OPERATIONAL PLAN
Project Achievements to Sustain
* Improvement in power supply by rehabilitation of selected generation, transmission
and distribution facilities.
* Institutional strengthening of NEPA as a basis for becoming a commercially viable
entity capable of delivering a reliable, economic supply of electricity to its customers.
Actions to Sustain Achievements
Physical Condition of the Power System
* Make emergency repairs to the dams and spillway equipment at the Kainji
Hydroelectric Station and make regular inspections to avoid future problems
* Continue rehabilitation of generation capacity along with the common facilities and
station auxiliaries of the Kainji station.
* Rehabilitate or replace the remaining three Sapele steam units and the Afam III gas
turbines that were not rehabilitated under the project.
* Expand the transmission and distribution system to support power delivery from the
rehabilitated generation capacity.
* Prepare and implement a comprehensive loss reduction program until privatization of
the distribution system.
* Prepare and implement annual plans for preventive maintenance and spare parts
acquisition.
* Expand the transmission system to support the privatization of the distribution
network.
Key Sector Policies
*  Provide NEPA with actual autonomy necessary to act as a commercial entity
according to the Privatization and Commercialization Decree.
* Allow NEPA to increase tariffs under a phased program to meet minimum financial
objective and approximate the long-run marginal cost of electricity supply.
* Increase gas prices to cover costs and encourage private investment in sufficient gas
infrastructure to meet power system needs.
 Streamline procedures for the procurement of goods and services necessary to support
rehabilitation and institutional strengthening.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
NEPA's Management and Operations
Restructure NEPA according to the Multiple Utilities Model, forming a generation
and transmission company (GTC) and creating regional distribution companies that
would purchase capacity and energy from the GTC but not be confined to it as sole
supplier.
* Privatize the distribution companies.
* Until the restructuring: (a) continue improvements in the billing system and other
actions to reduce non-technical losses; and (b) organize training programs and
provide incentives for management and staff to improve response to customer needs
and enhance modem management and operational skills.



IBRD 21325R
'  _ _   _ o ~~~~~~~~ ~~ _  8                                                                          Ir  ~~~~~~~ t  i.  4 \'4 ~~~~~~~C H A D
F,t..sre Ktsi,,I-M.r-di     N   I G   E  R                                                                            .     >       cHAD
/ %   r                  q < ---                             uSpply to NIGELEC
Nt    G E R                           Xooker.'                                         ,       '.sn K  -. '<,                                                                                                    "*4,   fi\jI          c.
I    ,Nx~~~~-Sokoto'>
r  7 ,   ,   \be/               \ d             Toloto Moharo               \;Komk,ya                                                                                                                   i ,.'  Ch
Biraist Kebb Hio                                                                                                                       I
K  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-
U R KSN'                                                                                                                                                                                                                'MoidvQu.    ''is
FASO/ r                                                                                                                                                                          Pot'/r 
) ~~~~~~~.0Bopogo
C, -_~~~~~~J
Jebbo        , AbckuX    / con 3\) kur  /                       ot m             Ycindev                                                                                               Hydro Stat-rns
PB       o A      o       t       _        Fhsg sn  I   Nsk                                              /                                                                                                        It   omil)>323S  
'bAbujo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~yj
aLI ~ ~       ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        -                                                                                                                     . ./     aeej :Olsa \;./O         Ctso  on
m..'an _ )  NIGER   >-  vef irer r \   )  ~>   X  Umah i                C A  M  E R O O  N                                                                  -~-NIGERIA
Isey.n                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POWER SECTOR MAINTENANCE
L.kojo~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~,~                                                                  AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Aiaokuts                                                                                                                         EXISTING POWER SYSTEM
A6eok.tC,'                               Ot.,kpo                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hydro Station,
:de- _                     Ukpilla                                                                                                                                                        Th.-I St_ at,ot_  , _it~~t@Tr S
Papa Alanto     Egb,5    I~~beju-.bde                                           NsuSubkatkn
*   330/132 kV
C_,_                                                                                                                                                                            o  \132133/11 kV
E-  Nki.g,,                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Power Lines:
Be,,n( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---330 kV
Abakoliki                                                                       -        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32 kV
MALI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O,tso0  Cites, or Towns
'C'-D  War  E L T A                                                                                                                                       St.t. B.undor-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tteBonare
IURKIN.   (   '         -,                                                                                                                                                                                                      ---O(T(rl Iternational Boundaries
PASo,                 --"-L I,  n>                                                     I                                                       lC A  AA E .R 0    N
-                                                    ~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ito           Th. W-id A-k' lit.n.i
*Aou  I                                                                                                                                          -          f-I,.   -   tur/n-
"A                                                                                                                                            ..d- Acoi  Clobr-h.W,8&     a                        Ai(JLOMETEAS
I ~~~~~~~~~~~-/ ~~~~~~~~~~Port Hocor                                    A0'\                     J amit buido.,so20
o~    CMEROON                                                                           Onn                                                             naTh  .Idnnse, I it.~             ~oTo 
t                                                                                       LES~~~~~~~~proT.OnISoG.n~    0  05  0
-i--'1-.                                                                                                   non~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h b-ud-o.
FEBRUARY 1992









IMAGING
Report No:           16825
Type:     ICR



