CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 287 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Smallholder Tea Development Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 3, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 287 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Smallholder Tea Development Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 3, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1972, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  The Tanzania Tea Authority (hereinafter called TTA), a body corporate
established by the Tea Ordinance, Cap. 291, as amended by the Tea Ordinance
(Amendment) Act, 1968, of the Borrower is charged inter alia with promoting
the development of the tea industry;
(C)  The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (hereinafter called TRDB), a
body corporate established by the Tanzania Rural Development Bank Act, 197 1,
of the Borrower, is charged inter alia with the provision of credit for agricultural
purposes;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
herein and in a project agreement of even date herewith between the Association,
TTA and TRDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association,
TTA and TRDB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time with the approval of the Borrower, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TRDB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, with the approval of the
Association, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Project Grower" means any tea grower participating in the planting
program of the Borrower under the Project;
(d)   "Project Area" means any of the tea growing areas of Bukoba in the
West Lake Region, of West Usambara in the Tanga Region, of Rungwe in the
Mbeya Region, and of Lupembe in the Iringa Region, of the Borrower;
(e)   "Cooperative Society" means any cooperative society established or
to be established under the Cooperative Societies Act, 1968, of the Borrower in
any Project Area having any Project Grower as a member;
(f)   "Project Roads" means any road to be constructed under Part IV of
the Project in any Project Area;
(g)   "TSh" means Tanzanian Shillings in the currency of the Borrower;
and
(h)   "Fiscal Year" means the period beginning on July 1 of a given year
and ending on June 30 of the next following year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($10,800,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shal otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing
February 1, 1982 and ending August 1, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project or shall cause
the Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial, agricultural, engineering and economic
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall lend to TRDB, under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and TRDB, at an interest rate of four
per cent (4%) per annum, with a term of twenty-eight years, including a grace
period of eight years, and under such other terms and conditions as shall have
been agreed by the Association:
(i)         the part of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn pursuant to
Categories I (a), II (a), (b) and (d) and III (a) of Schedule I
to this Agreement; and
(ii)        without restriction  or limitation  upon   the provisions of
paragraph (a) hereof, such additional funds as shall be required
to finance all expenditures under said Categories.
(c)   Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
hereof, the Borrower shall make available to TTA by way of grant, promptly as
needed, the funds required to finance all expenditures under Categories I (c), II (c)
and III (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable TTA and TRDB to perform
all of their obligations under the Project Agreement and, in the case of TRDB,
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which might interfere with such performance.


﻿7
Section 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part IV of the Project within two years from
the date of this Agreement, and to this end, the Borrower shall:
(a)   establish and maintain two Road Construction Units within the Roads
and Aerodromes Division of its Ministry of Communications, Transport and Labour,
one each in Bukoba and Lupembe;
(b)   employ consultants acceptable to the Association and provide sufficient
staff to operate these Road Construction Units, as specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement as the same may be modified from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association;
(c)   make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for financing,
supervising and coordinating the construction of the Project Roads in the Rungwe
and West Usambara areas; and
(d)   use general design standards as set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement as the same may be modified from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain and repair its Project Roads in
accordance with sound engineering and financial practices, and shall provide
promptly as needed the funds, equipment, workshop facilities, labor and other
resources required for this purpose.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, in order to assist TTA to carry out Part III of the Project:
(a)   continue to make available to TTA by free secondment from its
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, an adequate number of qualified staff,
as shall be requested from time to time pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of the Project
Agreement; and
(b)   ensure that the tea planting program is phased approximately as set
forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement as the same may be modified
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or shall cause to be
insured, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.


﻿8
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents and construction schedules, for the Project, and any, material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable or cause to be
enabled the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.07. In order to assist TRDB in carrying out Part VI of the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(a)   cause each of the Cooperative Societies (i) to maintain appropriate
credit accounts in respect of the Project for the individual Project Growers being
their members, and (ii) to furnish to TTA and TRDB all such information thereon
as TTA or TRDB shall reasonably request; and
(b)   prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the
Association, TTA and TRDB, not later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year, a report on the operations and financial condition of the Cooperative
Societies of such scope and in such detail as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, of the Cooperative Societies and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided to TTA, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required to construct and
operate the additional tea factories specified in Section 2.03 (b) of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by TTA and TRDB of their obligations under the
Project Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Cooperative Societies and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿10
concerning the operations and financial condition of the Cooperative Societies and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by TTA or TRDB of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement, or the performance of the
Borrower and TRDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment . principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restricions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time durirg the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to tle Borrower declare


﻿11
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,-
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   TTA or TRDB shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of TTA or TRDB, respectively, under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that TTA or TRDB will be able to perform their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower or TRDB shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)   Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
its terms, the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of TTA or TRDB or for the suspension of their respective
operations, unless prior thereto the Borrower and the Association shall have reached
agreement on the arrangements to be made in order to replace such entity by
an organization which will assume and perform all the obligations of such entity
under the Project Agreement upon said dissolution, disestablishment or suspension.
(e)   Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
its terms, the Borrower shall have suspended, terminated, repealed or amended
the Tea Ordinance, Cap. 291, as amended by the Tea Ordinance (Amendment)
Act, 1968, Tanzania Rural Development Bank Act, 1971, or the Co-operative
Societies Act, 1968, all of the Borrower, in such a way as to alter substantially
the organization, powers or responsibilities of TTA, TRDB or any of the
Cooperative Societies respectively, so as to affect adversely the Project.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in Section 7.02 (a), (b) or (c) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower, TTA and TRDB.
(b)   any event specified in Section 7.02 (d) or (e) of this Agreement shail
occur.


﻿12
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
TTA and TRDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and TRDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   Arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the construction of
the Project Roads mentioned in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement have been
completed.
(d)   TTA has made arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the
employment of the Chief Marketing Officer and of the Planning Economist specified
in Section 3.01 (c) of the Project Agreement.
(e)   TTA has made arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the
employment of the Factory Managers and of the visiting consultants specified in
Section 3.01 (d) of the Project Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following- are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, TTA and TRDB, respectively, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of TTA and TRDB in accordance with
its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and TRDB,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
TRDB in accordance with its terms.


﻿13
Section 8.03. The date of June 1, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03 and 3.08
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿14
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s / Gosbert M. Rutabanzibwa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   (a)   Processing equip-         1,100,000    )     100% of foreign
ment for tea                           )    expenditures
factories                              )
(b)   Road construction          700,000    )
machinery for                          )
Bukoba and Lupembe                     )
area roads                             )
(c)   Services of ex-            400,000    )
perts employed                         )
by TTA                                 )
(d)   Services of ex-            200,000    )
perts employed                         )
by the Borrower                        )
II.   (a)  Tea factory               1,400,000    )     100% of foreign
buildings                              )    expenditures or
)     70% of local ex-
)     penditures
(b)  Vehicles and spare          100,000    )
parts for TTA leaf                     )
collection services                    )
and office equip-                      )
ment for TTA head-                     )
quarters                               )


﻿16
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(c)   Vehicles and spare          100,000    )
parts for TTA ex-                      )
tension services                       )
(d)   Fertilizer and tea        2,300,000    )
planting material                       )
III.  (a)  Establishment of           1,300,000    )    70% of total ex-
nurseries                               )    penditures
(b)   Construction of            400,000     )
roads in Bukoba and                    )
Lupembe areas (other                    )
than construction                      )
machinery)                              )
(c)   Staff houses and           400,000     )
training facilities                    )
for extension                          )
services                               )
(d)   Services of Tan-          1,500,000    )
zanian extension                       )
service staff                          )
employed by the                        )
Borrower                                )
IV.   Unallocated                      900,000
TOTAL         10,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;


﻿17
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures incurred after July 1, 1971
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $580,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proc,Ads of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category III
or of local expenditures under Category II shall increase and no proceeds of the
Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's smallholder tea development program.
It covers the planting of about 8,300 ha of tea by about 14,000 Project Growers,
during the three Fiscal Years from 1971/72 to 1973/74 in the areas of Bukoba,
West Usambara, Rungwe and Lupembe, and the provision of marketing and
processing facilities. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part I.    Strengthening of TTA    by provision of technical services and
construction and equipping of staff houses, offices, workshops, stores
for TTA's field operations, and training facilities at Kiwira in the
Rungwe district, or at such other location as may be agreed between
the Borrower, TTA and the Association.
Part II:   Construction of 2 and the expansion of 3 tea factories and provision
of processing equipment therefor phased approximately as shown in
the Annex to this Schedule 2, as such Annex may be modified from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower, TTA and the
Association.
Part III:  Provision of extension and leaf collection services for Project Growers
and related transportation.
Part IV:   Construction of about 300 km of all-weather roads in the Project
Areas, approximately as follows: Rungwe: 105 km; Bukoba: 85 km;
Lupembe: 75 km; West Usambara: 35 km; and provision of
consultants' services for construction and maintenance of these roads
and for the training of Tanzanian personnel in connection therewith.
Part V:    Establishment and operation of tea nurseries for production of
high-grade planting material for Lhe Project Growers.
Part VI:   Provision of credit to (a) Project Growers for the purchase of planting
material and fertilizers; and (b) TTA for financing expenditures under
Categories I (a), 11 (a) and (b) and III (a) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿19
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Phasing of Project
Recruitment
and Planting                          TTA Factories
Production
Recruit-    Area                                     of Made       Capacity
ment of    Planted                  Stage of        Tea from      of all TTA
Area and         Project     in     Location of    Construction    Smallholders    Factories
Fiscal Year     Growers   Hectares  Construction   Completed*       (1,000 kg)    (1,000 kg)
Rungwe:
1970/71 or
earlier           1,600        -    Katumba                1             -            570
1971/72           4,600    1,300    -                                 483             570
1972/73               -    1,100    -                      -          646            570
1973/74               -    1,300    Katumba                2          984           1,130
1974/75               -        -    Katumba                3         1,460          1,700
1975/76               -        -    Mpuguso          1 and 2         1,805          2,830
Bukoba:
1970/71 or
earlier           1,100        -    Bukoba                (1)**          -            340
1971/72           1,700      600    -                                 384             340
1972/73               -      600    Bukoba                 1          500            570
1973/74               -      500    Bukoba                 2          688           1,130
1974/75               -        -    -                                 964           1,130
1975/76               -        -    Bukoba               (3)**       1,326          1,130
Lupembe:
1970/71 or
earlier           1,900        -    Lupembe                1             -            570
1971/72           1,800      800    Lupembe              (2)**        686            570
1972/73               -      800    Lupembe                2          761           1,130
1973/74               -      600    -                                 938           1,130
1974/75               -        -    Lupembe              (3)**       1,173          1,130
1975/76               -        -    Lupembe                3         1,484          1,700
West
Usambara:
1970/71 or
earlier             600        -    Mponde               (1)**           -            180
1971/72             700      300    Mponde                 1          262            570
1972/73               -      200    -                                 355            570
1973/74               -      200    Mponde               (2)**        480            570
1974/75               -        -    Mponde                 2          638           1,130
1975/76               -        -    -                                 818           1,130
TOTAL       14,000    8,300                                                    6,790
*    Each stage of construction adds annual capacity of approximately 570,000 kg of made tea.
**   Started but not yet completed.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   With respect to any contract for goods and services, other than those referred
to under paragraphs 4 and 6 of this Schedule, estimated to cost the equivalent
of $25,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any
objection to the intended award on the ground that it would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or with the Development Credit Agreement,
and shall state the reasons for any objections it may have.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable
objection, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the


﻿21
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for goods and services, other than those
referred to under paragraphs 4 and 6 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract.
The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that the award
of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or
with the Development Credit Agreement and, in such event, no expenditure under
such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for fertilizer, bid prices shall be determined
and compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   The term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid".
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-factory price of such
goods.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)        the c.i.f. (Dar es Salaam) price of such goods; and
(ii)       the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower.
4.    Contracts for construction of staff houses and for procurement of office
equipment shall be awarded following local competitive bidding, and cuttings,
mulch, wire for shade construction and poles, all for nursery development, may
be purchased under negotiated contracts, both according to procedures acceptable
to the Association.


﻿22
5.   Notwithstanding the above, the Borrower may construct the Project Roads
in the Bukoba and Lupembe areas by force account through its Ministry of
Communication, Transport and Labour.
6.   Any contract for goods and services estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $5,000 may be awarded by the Borrower on the basis of quotations from local
suppliers.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Organization and Functions of Road Construction Units
1.   The Borrower shall assign an experienced road engineer within the Roads
and Aerodromes Division of the Ministry of Communications, Transport and Labour
to act as Project Road Coordinator for the Project Roads.
2.   The Consultants specified in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement shall be
required to provide the following experts:
(a)   Not later than August 1, 1972 a Project Road Manager who will
supervise and coordinate the construction of the Project Roads in the Bukoba and
Lupembe areas. He will report to the Project Road Coordinator mentioned in
paragraph 1 above but the Ministry of Communications, Transport and Labour
shall delegate the Consultants sufficient authority required for the efficient
execution of the road construction.
(b)   Not later than October 1, 1972 a team   for each of the Road
Construction Units specified in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement each consisting
of a resident engineer, a road construction superintendent, a Master Mechanic and
a Cost Accountant, and in addition, a bridge construction superintendent in the
case of the Road Construction Unit in the Lupembe area.
(c)   As soon as possible, but not later than June 1, 1972 an expert to
promptly prepare the bidding documents for the acquisition of road construction
machinery for Project Roads in the Bukoba and Lupembe areas and to assist in
the evaluation of bids.
The Consultants shall be employed for a period of not less than two years
and upon such other terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
3.   The Ministry of Communications, Transport and Labour shall assign within
its Roads and Aerodromes Division supporting staff to the Road Construction Units,
including assistant inspectors, mechanics and plant operators; if necessary the
Consultants shall be authorized to employ such supporting staff on behalf of, and
on terms and conditions to be approved by, the Roads and Aerodromes Division.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 5
Road Design Standards
Width:                Minimum 7.50 m between certers of side drains.
Cross-Section:        Barreled cross-section; center line level minimum 40 cm
above invert of side drains.
Surfacing:            Gravel or crushed stone, 3 m    wide, to a minimum
thickness of 10 cm.


