CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 287 TA
Project Agreement
(Smallholder Tea Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
TANZANIA TEA AUTHORITY
AND
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
DATED MARCH 3, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 287 TA
Project Agreement
(Smallholder Tea Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
TANZANIA TEA AUTHORITY
AND
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
DATED MARCH 3, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
TANZANIA TEA AUTHORITY (hereinafter called TTA) and TANZANIA RURAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called TRDB).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
the United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million eight hundred thousand dollars ($10,800,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that TTA and TRDB agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS TTA and TRDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Develotment Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TTA shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, Parts I, II,
III and V of the Project and TRDB shall carry out Part VI of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
agricultural, engineering and economic practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TTA shall,
in carrying out Parts I and III of the Project:
(a)   maintain in each of the Project Areas, an organizational unit, consisting
of one Area Development Officer as the head of each such unit, and a sufficient
number of Field Officers and Assistant Field Officers as shall be necessary for
extension services to all Project Growers at the rate of one Field Officer, each
assisted by at least five Assistant Field Officers, to not more than 500 Project
Growers;
(b)   reques!. from  the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the
Borrower secondment of qualified staff needed by it from time to time for such
extension services;
(c)   make arrangements to provide adequate vehicles, staff houses, offices,
workshops and stores for the said Area Development Officers, Field Officers and
Assistant Field Officers; and
(d)   coordinate leaf collection schedules and acquire, maintain and operate
appropriate leaf collection vehicles required for leaf collection services to the Project
Growers.
Section 2.03. (a) In carrying out Part II of the Project, TTA shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association for the construction and expansion of
the tea factories included in the Project, upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TTA shall construct
and operate, or cause to be constructed and operated, such additional tea factories
as shall be necessary to provide for adequate processing capacity required for tea
production resulting from the Project.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TTA shall
continue to operate existing tea nurseries and establish such new nurseries as shall
be required to produce high-grade planting material in adequate amounts and at
suitable sites for supply to all Project Growers.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TTA shall,
in order to assist TRDB in carrying out Part VI of the Project, make arrangements
for:


﻿5
(a)   the deduction of TSh 0.20 per kilogram of tea leaf purchased by it
from the purchase price payable to any Cooperative Society having outstanding
any amount under any sub-loan received pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) (i) of this
Agreement from TRDB; and
(b)   the transfer of the proceeds of such deduction as payment of principal
and interest for any such sub-loan on account of any such Cooperative Society
to TRDB.
Section 2.06. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, TRDB shall make the following loans according to the Policies and Procedures
of TRDB set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(i)        TRDB shall make available as loans to the Cooperative Societies
for on-lending to Project Growers the funds required for
financing tea stumps for initial planting and fertilizer needed
for carrying out and continuing the planting program established
under the Project; and
(ii)       TRDB shall make available as loans to TTA the funds required
for financing expenditures under Categories I (a), II (a) and (b)
and III (a) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)   In granting the loans specified in paragraph (a) of this Section, TRDB
shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower
and the Association.
(c)  TRDB shall exercise its rights under the respective agreements providing
for the loans specified in paragraph (a) of this Section in such manner as to protect
the interests of TRDB, the Borrower and the Association, and, except as the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, TRDB shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving any provision of said agreements.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to TTA
and TRDB, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.03
of the Development Credit Agreement and any agreements supplemental thereto.
Section 2.08. (a) TTA and TRDB undertake to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to each of them by the Borrower against


﻿6
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 2.09. (a) TTA and TRDB shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, reports, specifications, contract documents and
construction schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   TTA and TRDB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to each of them
by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to each of them and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.10. TRDB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TRDB shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TTA and TRDB
Section 3.01. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TTA and
TRDB shall at all times take all steps necessary on their part to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers and privileges which are necessary or useful in their
operations.
(b)   TTA and TRDB shall at all times conduct their operations under
competent and experienced management, in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices and with the assistance of adequate
qualified and experienced staff.


﻿7
(c)   TTA   shall: (i) employ a Chief Marketing Officer and a Planning
Economist, whose experience and qualifications for such positions shall be
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) employ not later than July 1, 1972, an
Accountant whose experience and qualifications for this position shall be
satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) until completion of the Project, consult
with the Association prior to making any changes in any of the positions of its
Chief Executive, Financial Controller, Accountant, Planning Economist, Chief
Marketing Officer and Chief Factory Officer.
(d)   TTA   shall, until completion of the Project: (i) employ a Factory
Manager for each of its tea factories in Mponde, Lupembe and Katumba, whose
experience and qualifications for such positions shall be satisfactory to the
Association; (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, employ visiting
consultants acceptable to the Association for a period of not less than two years
and upon other terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and TTA; and
(iii) make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the sound management
of the other tea factories under its control.
(e)   TTA and TRDB shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and repair
their facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in accordance with sound
engineering and management practices.
Section 3.02. TTA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.03. TRDB shall not amend its "Investment Policy", as set forth
in the Resolution of its Board, passed on December 15, 1971, without prior
consultation with the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TTA and TRDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices their operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. TTA and TRDB shall: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the


﻿8
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of TTA and TRDB
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association, TTA and TRDB shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association,
TTA and TRDB shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of TTA and TRDB and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association, TTA and TRDB shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of their respective obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the
Borrower or TRDB of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.03. TTA and TRDB shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of TTA and TRDB
and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, of
TTA and of TRDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:


﻿9
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       the later of (A) the date on which the entire principal amount
of the Subsidiary Loan shall have been repaid by TRDB to the
Borrower in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and (B) a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify TTA and TRDB of this event and, upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder
shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
For TTA:
Tanzania Tea Authority
P. 0. Box 2663
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Tantea
Dar es Salaam
For TRDB:
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
P. 0. Box 268
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
MTAJI
Dar es Salaam
Section 7.02. TTA and TRDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of TTA and TRDB, respectively, take any action
or exe3ute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by TTA
and TRDB pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President
TANZANIA TEA AUTHORITY
By /s / Gosbert M. Rutabanzibwa
Authorized Representative
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s/ Gosbert M. Rutabanzibwa
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Policies and Procedures for Loans
to TTA and Cooperatives
In making the loans referred to in Section 2.06 (a) of this Agreement, TRDB
shall follow the policies and procedures outlined below, as such policies and
procedures may be amended from time to time by TRDB with the approval of
the Borrower and the Association.
I.    Eligibility
1.   TRDB shall make loans to:
(a)   TTA   for the purchase of factory equipment and buildings,
equipment and vehicles 'for headquarters and leaf collection
services and for financing nursery development; and
(b)   Cooperative Societies having any Project Growers as members
in any of the four Project Areas for tea planting material and
fertilizer for Project Growers.
II.   On-Lending by Cooperative Societies
2.    TRDB shall ensure, by provisions in its loan agreements with the
Cooperative Societies or otherwise, that the Cooperative Societies
on-lend the proceeds of the loans to Project Growers on terms and
conditions and following procedures acceptable to TRDB and TTA.
3.    Each loan agreement shall include provisions for the following:
(a)   that the Cooperative Society shall allow representatives of the
Borrower, TRDB, TTA and the Association to visit the
Cooperative Society, including all land cultivated by its members;
(b)   that the Cooperative Societies shall maintain separate and
identifiable accounts pertaining to the Project and the individual
Project Growers being their members, and will furnish TRDB,
TTA and the Association such information regarding those
accounts and the overall accounts of the Cooperative Society
as either TRDB, TTA or the Association shall reasonably request;
and


﻿13
(c)   that the Cooperative Society shall accept such other terms and
conditions adequate to protect the interests of TRDB, including
conditions resulting from recommendations in the reports
referred to in paragraphs 10 (c) and 10 (d) below.
III.  Term of TRDB Loans
4.    Loans to TTA shall have a term not exceeding twenty-eight years with
a grace period not exceeding eight years.
5.    Loans to Cooperative Societies for on-lending to Project Growers are
estimated to be repaid within fifteen years; to that end, TRDB shall
ensure that:
(a)   TTA shall deduct TSh 0.20 per kilogram of tea leaf purchased
by it from the purchase price payable to any Cooperative Society
having outstanding any amount under any sub-loan received from
TRDB;
(b)   TTA shall remit said TSh 0.20 per kilogram directly to TRDB,
as payment of principal and interest for any sub-loan on account
of the respective Cooperative Society, and inform the respective
Cooperative Society as to the payment credited to it; and
(c)   when any Cooperative Society shall have fully paid principal and
interest of its loans, TRDB shall notify TTA to stop making
deductions and sending remittances to TRDB for loan payment
purposes with respect to any such Cooperative Society.
IV.  Interest
6.    The loans shall bear interest at a rate of 8-1/2% per annum on the
outstanding balance, or such other rate as the Borrower, TRDB and
the Association shall have otherwise agreed.
V.   Disbursement
7.    TRDB shall disburse its loans to TTA in cash.
8.    TRDB shall disburse its loans to Cooperative Societies in kind,
including planting material financed by direct payments by TRDB to
TTA and delivery of such planting material to Project Growers by
TTA.


﻿14
VI.   Supervision
9.    TRDB shall ensure that amounts drawn on loans are applied exclusively
to the purposes for which they were lent and its staff shall regularly
visit Cooperative Society and TTA facilities to ensure that the
Cooperative Societies and TTA are complying with the terms of their
respective loan agreements. In supervising its loans to Cooperative
Societies, TRDB shall cooperate closely with TTA.
VII. Appraisal of Loan Applications by TRDB
10.   In appraising a loan application from any eligible Cooperative Society,
TRDB shall ensure inter alia that:
(a)   a suitable Maximum of Liability Certificate shall have been issued
by the Registrar of Cooperatives;
(b)   a general meeting of the Cooperative Society shall have approved
the loan application;
(c)   a confidential report on the loan application shall have been
received from the Chief Cooperative Officer of TTA; and
(d)   the accounts and financial operations of the Cooperative Society
shall have been examined by the Financial Analyst of TRDB
and a report shall have been made thereon.
11.   In appraising a loan application from TTA, TRDB shall ensure inter
alia that:
(a)   the Board of TTA shall have approved the loan application; and
(b)   in all cases, the loan application shall be accompanied by cost
estimates based on detailed designs.


