CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 309 CD
Development Credit
Ag:eement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 31, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 309 CD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 31, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of
Sections 5.01 and 6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i)
into 6.02 (h) thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Livestock Development Unit" and the letters LDU mean the special
unit established within the Direction de l'Elevage du Ministre de
l'Elevage et de la Commercialisation des Produits Animaux, des Eaux
et Fordts, Pches et Chasses of the Borrower, for the purpose of
evaluating the results of the current well program and preparing
development plans for the livestock sector;
(b)   "Ministry of Livestock" means the Ministere de l'Elevage et de la
Commercialisation des Produits Animaux, des Eaux et Fordts, Pdches
et Chasses of the Borrower;
(c)   The letters "UNDP"     mean   the United   Nations Development
Programme;
(d)   "FAC   technical assistance program" means the program    to be
undertaken by the Fonds d'Aide et de Coopdration de la Ripublique
FranCaise for the purpose of providing the Borrower with technical
assistance for its livestock services.


﻿4
(e)   "Ministry  of  Rural  Development"    means   the Ministere  de
1'Ain6agement di Territoire et de /'Habitat of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million and two hundred
thousand dollars ($2,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement and to be financed under
this Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank
(other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than goods included in Category Ill of the table in paragraph I
of Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agreement and the services of
consultants) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 197 1,
and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3
to this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 1982 and ending December 1, 2021,
each installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 1991,
to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and technical
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association
to an extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   If the FAC technical assistance program has not been undertaken
before this Development Credit Agreement has come into force and effect, in order
to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ or cause to be employed the contractors already agreed upon with
the Association or other contractors acceptable to the Association upon the terms
and conditions already approved by the Association or upon other terms and
conditions satisfactory. to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation


﻿6
and dclivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall turnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the wells
included in Part A of the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause: (a) LDU to (i) function under terms
and conditions to be agreed upon from time to time by the Borrower and the
Association and (ii) submit progress reports every three months to UNDP and the
Association; and
(b)   the Ministry of Livestock to convene every three months a meeting
with the Ministre des Finances, the Ministre du Plan et des Aides Extdrieures
and the Ministry of Rural Development (Service du Gnie Rural) for the purpose
of (i) reviewing the work of LDU on the basis of the terms and conditions referred
to in subparagraph (a) (i) of this Section, and (ii) making appropriate
recommendations thereafter.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) maintain the Borrower's regulations established
for the purpose of auditing the records referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this
Development Credit Agreement; (ii) audit such records according to such
regulations; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year, the report of such
audit, of such scope and in such detail ac the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
such records and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, at all times, maintain and repair or cause
to be maintained and repaired the wells included or referred to in Parts A, B
and C of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement, the administration and operations, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such


﻿8
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at


﻿9
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in this Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date of September 28, 1972, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years after
the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministre di Plan et des Aides Exterieures of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministere du Plan et
des Aides Ext6rieures
B.P. 286
Fort Lamy
Republic of Chad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s / Lazare Massibe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Broches
General Counsel


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             %of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Categorl                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.   New Wells                       490,000           70% of total ex-
penditures
II.   Well Repair and                255,000           70% of total ex-
Renovation                                        penditures
III.  Engineering Con-               170,000           75% of total ex-
sultants' Fees                                    penditures
for Parts A, B
and C of the
Project
IV.   Vehicles, equipment            300,000           80% of total ex-
and spare parts for                               penditures
well maintenance
V.    Well Maintenance Units
(a)  Technical                  130,000           100% of total
Assistance                                  expenditures
(b)  Operating Ex-              110,000           100% of total
penses from  1st                            expenditures
month through 12th
month inclusive
(c)  Operating Ex-               55,000           50% of total ex-
penses from  13th                           penditures
month through 24th
month inclusive


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
VI.   Technical Assistance            190,000            76% of total ex-
for Part D of the                                  penditures (rep-
Project                                            resenting the
estimated for-
eign expenditure
component)
VII. Unallocated                      500,000
TOTAL         2,200,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures incurred prior to February 1, 1972; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set furth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above


﻿13
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably  determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association und-r this Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
4.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under any Category
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    construction of 38 open concrete wells in Guetty and Harr in the
Batha prefecture;
B.    repair and renovation of 102 existing wells in the southern part of
the Batha prefecture;
C.    establishment of two units in the Ministry of Rural Development to
maintain 821 concrete wells; and
D.    the carrying out by LDU of studies on:
(1)   a comprehensive countrywide livestock development program;
(2)  improvement of water drawing from greater depths;
(3)   establishment of stock routes; and
(4)  identification  and  preparation  of projects  for livestock
development.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for the construction or renovation of wells
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a)   If contractors are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
prequalification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to
be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified contractors, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower
shall make such additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Development Credit Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development
Credit Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its excecution and prior to the submission to the


﻿16
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


