                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001375



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H1880)

                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.9 MILLION
                        (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                                    FOR AN

       URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND CITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                     IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF

    THE URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND CITY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM



                                  June 24, 2010




AFTUW (Urban and Water)
AFCE2 (Kenya, Eritrea, Comoros, Rwanda, Seychelles, Somalia)
Africa Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2009)
                          Currency Unit = Rwanda Franc (RWF)
                             1.00 RWF = US$0.0017513
                               US$1.00 = RWF 571.00
                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                     July 1 - June 30
                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL (I/II)   Adaptable Program Loan (phase one or phase two)
ASSETIP      Public Works Contract Management Agency (Association d'exécution des travaux
             d'intérêt public)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CDF          Common Development Fund
EDPRS        Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
HDM-4        Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model-4
HIV/AIDS     Human Immunodeficiency Virus / Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICR          Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA          International Development Association
IRI          International Roughness Index
ISR          Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MININFRA     Ministry of Infrastructure
MINALOC      Ministry of Local Government (Ministère de l'Administration Locale, Développement
             Communautaire et Affaires Sociales)
MTR          Mid-Term Review
n.a.         not applicable
NDF          Nordic Development Fund
NPV          Net Present Value
OP           Operational Policy
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PDO          Project Development Objective
PEP          Priority Maintenance Program (Programme d'Entretien Prioritaire)
PIGU         Urban Infrastructure and City Management Project (Projet d'Infrastructures et de
             Gestion Urbaine)
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
RED          Roads Economic Decision Model
RHA          Rwanda Housing Authority
SME          Small and Medium Enterprise
TTL          Task Team Leader
UICMP        Urban Infrastructure and City Management Project
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
VPD          Vehicles per Day
     Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
   Country Director: Johannes C.M. Zutt
    Sector Manager: Junaid Kamal Ahmad
Project Team Leader: Déo-Marcel Niyungeko
  ICR Team Leader: Déo-Marcel Niyungeko
ICR Primary Author: Christian Vang Eghoff
                            Rwanda
       URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND CITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 28
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 35
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 37
  Annex 10 (Supplemental Annex): Photo Documentation ............................................ 38
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Urban Infrastructure
Country:                 Rwanda                  Project Name:             and City Management
                                                                           Project
Project ID:              P060005                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H1880
ICR Date:                06/25/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:      APL                     Borrower:
                                                                           RWANDA
Original Total
                         XDR 13.9M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 13.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          XDR 13.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Infrastructure
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process                  Date         Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:         07/03/2003    Effectiveness:             06/02/2006        06/02/2006
Appraisal:              11/09/2004    Restructuring(s):                            01/15/2009
Approval:               11/10/2005    Mid-term Review:           02/28/2008        03/24/2008
                                      Closing:                   03/31/2009        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Highly Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                                       7
Other social services                                                 20                    6
Roads and highways                                                    30                  66
Sanitation                                                            12
Sub-national government administration                                38                  21


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                  40                  52
Decentralization                                                      20                  9
Municipal finance                                                                         7
Municipal governance and institution building                         20                  7
Other urban development                                               20                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Johannes C.M. Zutt                   Pedro Alba
Sector Manager:            Junaid Kamal Ahmad                   Eustache Ouayoro
Project Team Leader:       Deo-Marcel Niyungeko                 Sylvie Debomy
ICR Team Leader:           Deo-Marcel Niyungeko
ICR Primary Author:        Christian Vang Eghoff




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Development Objective of the first phase of the APL is to increase access to priority
urban infrastructure in Kigali and two secondary cities (Ruhengeri and Butare).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Population having access to paved road in Kigali and Butare (Huye)
                                                                               Kigali: 488,322
                                                               No revision of (sector level)
                                                               values but      675,150 (district
Value                                       Kigali: 415,800
                Kigali: 355,800                                adoption to     level)
quantitative or                             Butare (huye)
                Butare (Huye): 8,520                           reflect         Butare (Huye):
Qualitative)                                15,600
                                                               territorial     47,258 (sector
                                                               restructuring. level) 290,677
                                                                               (district level)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009         03/31/2009      12/31/2009
                Target surpassed in both Kigali (117 percent) and Butare (303 percent). The
Comments
                roads opened up new areas to development and benefited a larger catchment area
(incl. %
                than anticipated. The restructuring was carried out to take into account the
achievement)
                reconfiguration of the
                Population having access to improved municipal social facilities in Ruhengeri
Indicator 2 :
                (Musanze)
Value
quantitative or 29,500                      36,000             n.a.            70,258
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009         03/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
                195 percent achievement. The facilities constructed in Ruhengeri (Musanze)
(incl. %
                attracted a much larger number of users than anticipated.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Population having access to improved social and economic infrastructure
Value                                                                          Effective 605,828
                PAD: 118,400
quantitative or                             PAD : 572,000      n.a.            (sector) 1,036,075
                Verified: 392,820
Qualitative)                                                                   (district)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009         03/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments        106 percent. Comments: this indicator has been disaggregated into roads and
(incl. %        social and economic infrastructure, as not all investments were known at the
achievement) beginning of the project (demand-based)
                Percentage of financial resources allocated yearly through the municipal budget
Indicator 4 :
                to finance infrastructure and facilities maintenance programs



                                               iii
                                                                             Kigali city: 17.7%
                                         Kigali city: 15%
                Kigali city: 2.5 %                                           Kigali districts:
                                         Kigali districts:
Value           Kigali districts: 5.4 %                                      15,3%
                                         10% Butare
quantitative or Butare (Huye): 7.1 %                       n.a.              Butare (Huye):
                                         (Huye): 10%
Qualitative)    Ruhengeri (Musanze): 2.2                                     27,44 %
                                         Ruhengeri
                %                                                             Ruhengeri
                                         (Musanze ): 10%
                                                                             (Musanze): 15,67%
Date achieved 10/03/2005                 03/31/2009          03/31/2009      12/31/2009
              Target surpassed. All budget allocations for infrastructure and facilities
Comments
              maintenance programs are above appraisal expectations. This is largely
(incl. %
              explained by the drive of the local governments to make the best use of the tools
achievement)
              and training provided by th

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                               Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Roads constructed, non-rural (kilometers). Core Indicator.
Value
(quantitative   0                           20.00             n.a.            22.64
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009        03/31/2009      12/31/2009
                The full program of road works was implemented (20 kilometers). This is a core
Comments
                indicator, added to ISR#10 during AFTRL ISR reviews to include newly defined
(incl. %
                core indicators to all project M&E frameworks. The target value has been
achievement)
                erroneously entered in pre
Indicator 2 : Total number of classrooms built or rehabilitated. Core Indicator.
Value
(quantitative   0                           58                n.a.            58
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009        03/31/2009      12/31/2009
                100 percent achievement. This is a core indicator, added to ISR#10 during
Comments
                AFTRL ISR reviews to include newly defined core indicators to all project
(incl. %
                M&E frameworks. The number includes the classroom built or rehabilitated in
achievement)
                three schools and in the Kimisa
Indicator 3 : Health facilities constructed, renovated, and/or equipped. Core Indicator.
Value
(quantitative   0                           1                 n.a.            1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009        03/31/2009      12/31/2009
                100 percent. One new 5-block facility constructed and equipped in Ruhengeri
Comments
                (Musanze) as foreseen. This is a core indicator, added to ISR#10 during AFTRL
(incl. %
                ISR reviews to include newly defined core indicators to all project M&E
achievement)
                frameworks.
Indicator 4 : Programmed projects satisfactorily completed by ASSETIP
Value           0 (newly established        80%               n.a.            100%



                                              iv
(quantitative     executing agency)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/03/2005                03/31/2009          03/31/2009     12/31/2009
Comments
                  Target surpassed. 100 percent of programmed projects carried out satisfactorily,
(incl. %
                  as verified by an external technical auditor.
achievement)
                Percentage of facilities built or rehabilitated by the project and effectively made
Indicator 5 :
                operational by the end of the project by the beneficiary districts and city
Value           0 (no infrastructure built
(quantitative   or rehabilitated at the     80%                  n.a.            100%
or Qualitative) outset of the project)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009           03/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
                Target surpassed. 100 percent achievement. All facilities are operational,
(incl. %
                including the Kicukiro bus station, which began operation in February 2010.
achievement)
                Upgrading pilot projects effectively implemented in Kigali with appropriate
Indicator 6 :
                standards
Value
(quantitative   0 (not existing)            1                    n.a.            1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009           03/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
                100 percent achievement. The pilot project covered two neighborhoods, which
(incl. %
                were upgraded with appropriate standards.
achievement)
                Pro-poor urban strategy complemented with lessons learned through the
Indicator 7 :
                implementation of the pilot projects and during the project life
Value
(quantitative   0                           1                    n.a.            1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009           03/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
                100 percent achievement. The strategy was elaborated as foreseen, including
(incl. %
                lessons learned.
achievement)
                One low-income zone serviced with revised basic standards and made available
Indicator 8 :
                by the City of Kigali to low income dwellers
Value
(quantitative   0                           1                    n.a.            1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009           03/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
                100 percent. The low-income zone was serviced with revised basic standards and
(incl. %
                made available by the City of Kigali to low income dwellers as foreseen.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Action plans to improve resource mobilization have been developed in each city
Value           0 (no action plan
(quantitative   available at the outset of 3                     n.a.            3
or Qualitative) the project)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009           03/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments        100 percent. The three cities have action plans to improve resource mobilization.


                                                 v
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Municipal financial reports and ratios are produced annually by cities
Value
                  0 (no reports available at
(quantitative                                3                   n.a.           3
                  the outset of the project)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/03/2005                  03/31/2009         03/31/2009     12/31/2009
Comments
                  100 percent. The three cities are producing annual municipal financial reports
(incl. %
                  and ratios.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    Percentage of works amounts executed by local SMEs
Value
(quantitative     0                           50%                n.a.           48%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/03/2005                 03/31/2009          03/31/2009     12/31/2009
Comments          96 percent achieved. The two largest contracts (roads) were executed by one
(incl. %          foreign contractor, since no local contractor had the technical capacity to execute
achievement)      this type of works.
Indicator 12 :    Percentage of operating costs of the ASSETIP to investments program amounts
Value
(quantitative     0 (new agency)              5%                 8%             7.2%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   10/03/2005                  03/31/2009           04/04/2008        12/31/2009
                Target surpassed. At MTR, it was agreed to revise the indicator from 5 percent to
Comments
                8 percent. The reason was that ASSETIP, as a newly established entity with
(incl. %
                related start-up cost, was not realistically able to live up to initially specified
achievement)
                demands. An au
Indicator 13 : Number of days for paying invoices to works contractors
Value
(quantitative   45 (average)                10                   n.a.              6.9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/03/2005                    03/31/2009           03/31/2009        12/31/2009
                Target surpassed. ASSETIP handled payment of invoices better than expected.
Comments
                The performance of 6.9 percent for 2009 represents a slight increase compared
(incl. %
                to the average payment time over the life of the project of 5.6 days, justified by
achievement)
                the high number of

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     12/01/2005             Satisfactory                                                 0.00
  2     05/11/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     09/26/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.39
  4     11/11/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.39
  5     05/10/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     4.93



                                                    vi
  6    11/06/2007         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 7.05
  7    05/06/2008         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                12.03
  8    10/30/2008         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                18.11
  9    04/30/2009         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                18.99
 10    07/30/2009         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                19.92
 11    12/30/2009         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                20.29


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Third level restructuring
                                                     (approved by the Country
                                                     Director) to drop the indicator
 01/15/2009       N       S       S          18.11   and APL II trigger relative to
                                                     urban audits and City Contracts
                                                     and revise the operating cost
                                                     target for ASSETIP.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At the time of appraisal, the urban sector in Rwanda faced many challenges stemming
from a mismatch between infrastructure development/service delivery and a high urban
population with high growth rates. The country was still predominantly rural but the
urbanization rate had reached 17 percent, up from 6 percent in 1991. The population
growth rate had been particularly high in Kigali (6 to 8 percent per year), with a threefold
increase in population between 1994 and 2002. The level of infrastructure in Kigali was
programmed to accommodate about 450,000 people, whereas the population had reached
over 800,000 inhabitants. Secondary cities registered a twofold increase in population
over the same period. Rapid urbanization had resulted in unplanned and squalid
settlements, urban sprawl, and increasing urban poverty. More than 80 percent of the
population of Kigali and 85 to 90 percent of the population of secondary cities lived in
informal neighborhoods, often in areas considered precarious or unsafe.

The country was still addressing the legacy of the 1994 genocide, in which more than one
million people were killed and two million were driven into exile. Insecurity of land
occupancy was a major problem in urban areas. Due to land availability constraints and
the legacy of the social crisis, strategic choices for land use and for urbanization were
highly sensitive.

Rwanda had, however, made remarkable efforts in economic recovery and social
reconstruction. Decentralization was a priority of the government and significant progress
had been achieved in operationalizing the decentralization framework and transferring
capital funding to local levels. Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks and Community
Development Plans had been institutionalized at the local levels. But faced with high
infrastructure costs (in part due to the landlocked nature of the country), and without
accompanying urban planning tools and financial and human resources, cities were ill
equipped to provide needed infrastructure and services to their growing populations.
Government and donor response
Because of the magnitude of poverty in rural areas and the focus on post-conflict
recovery, the Government and development partners had not placed much emphasis on
resolving urban development issues in the previous decade. However, recognition was
growing that the urbanization trend had resulted in a majority of city dwellers being poor
and vulnerable. The central government and the city of Kigali had implemented small-
scale, labor-intensive infrastructure projects, demonstrating a willingness to test and
develop alternative arrangements for infrastructure development and an interest in urban
development. Various development partners had financed similar activities and supported
local development plans in selected districts, with UN-Habitat having developed
particularly good experiences in urban land development in Kigali.

The strategic objectives of the Poverty Reduction Strategy and Vision 2020 were being
translated into concrete intervention frameworks to address these urbanization challenges
through new strategies and policies in the areas of decentralization, land use, and



                                             1
housing, including through the Kigali City Development Strategy. In spite of these
advances, financing for infrastructure and decentralization remained limited and did not
substantially address broader urban development issues.
World Bank response
Through the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the World Bank clearly identified
infrastructure development and good governance as a key element of poverty reduction.
The IDA-funded Decentralization and Community Development Project and the Public
Sector Capacity Building Project were providing specific training and capacity building
support to decentralized entities. The World Bank was the only external assistance
agency able to commit significant resources to a broad program in urban policies,
capacity building, and investment over a long period of time. Through this project, the
Urban Infrastructure and City Management Project (UICMP), the Bank was to support
consistent and incremental capacity building programs over an extended period of time
and consolidate efforts in urban areas under a coherent framework. In addition, it was to
contribute to the CAS objectives of local economic development and employment
generation.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators (as approved)
The Project Development Objectives (PDO) of the first phase of the Adaptable Loan
Program (APL) was to increase access to priority urban infrastructure in Kigali and the
secondary cities of Butare (later named Huye) and Ruhengeri (later named Musanze).1
The overall development objective of the APL (2 phases) was to increase access to urban
infrastructure and services in Kigali and five secondary cities. The key indicators would
measure: (a) the increase in the population having access to improved social and
economic infrastructure; and (b) the increase in resources allocated to finance
infrastructure and maintenance programs.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO and key indicators for the first phase of the APL were not revised. The second
phase of the APL which was to expand coverage to three additional cities was cancelled
in 2009.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The impacts of the project were intended to benefit primarily the population of Kigali
through city-wide and inter-district investments. Some of the poorest neighborhoods of
Kigali and the two secondary cities would benefit from district level investments in roads,
pathways, schools, health facilities, sports and recreational facilities, drainage, bus
stations, and other economic investments. The benefits would be felt primarily in terms
of: (a) improved physical living conditions, access to basic services and environmental
management; (b) increased security of tenure and increased property value due to


1
  An administrative reorganization took place in 2006 just before commencement of project implementation
by which the city of Butare was transformed into the district of Huye, incorporating the rural hinterland
into an enlarged local government. Similarly, the city of Ruhengeri became the district of Musanze.



                                                   2
improved overall amenities; and (c) improved health with reduction in waterborne
disease and reduced medical costs.

On a broader scale, both the population and the local private sector would benefit from:
(a) employment generation through using labor-intensive construction techniques and
promoting small- and medium-enterprises (SMEs) in construction and urban services; (b)
decreased production costs due to lower vehicle maintenance and transport costs resulting
from road improvements; (c) increased productivity and efficiency arising from reduced
flooding and avoided flood damages to economic property; and (d) enhanced investment
climate due to improved service delivery.

Local governments, as the entities responsible for delivering most of these services,
would benefit from increased capacity to mobilize local resources, to identify, prioritize,
and undertake sustainable investments relevant to the needs of their populations, and to
maintain these assets through the development of a systematic approach to financing, and
operations and maintenance arrangements.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: Urban infrastructure
(Appraisal/actual cost: US$10 million/US$13.8 million)
This component aimed at improving the provision of priority infrastructure and services
in Kigali, Butare (Huye), and Ruhengeri (Musanze) through: (a) city-wide and inter-
district investments, in particular for Kigali, that benefit several districts, support
economic development, improve the urban environment, and contribute to improving the
functioning of the city as a whole; and (b) district-level investments identified in
Community Development Plans prepared by local Community Development
Committees.
Component 2: Slum upgrading and low-income development zones pilot-project
(Appraisal/actual cost: US$1.9 million/US$2.0 million)
The objective was to initiate pro-poor urban upgrading and land development strategies
through pilot projects. Sub-component 1: (a) Program to upgrade one poor neighborhood
in Kigali, with focus on improving access roads and pathways, drainage and run-off
control, and public space improvements; (b) pilot "street addressing" operation in one
poor neighborhood. Sub-component 2: Pilot the establishment of a development zone for
low-income dwellers to define and test new practices to help control urban sprawl and
provide serviced plots to low-income households.
Component 3: Institutional capacity building and project management
(Appraisal/actual cost: US$4.0 million/US$3.6 million)
The component aimed at improving the capacity of stakeholders to use improved urban
and municipal management tools to plan, deliver, and manage urban infrastructure and
services. Sub-Component 1: Institutional capacity building in beneficiary cities and
districts, ministries, and the local private sector with focus on: (a) resource mobilization;
(b) accounting procedures and municipal and financial management, including priority
maintenance programs; (c) improvement of urban planning practices and sector studies in
support of decentralized urban development, urban planning, land management, and
urban environment (carried out through a partnership with Cities Alliance and UN-


                                                   3
Habitat); (d) urban environment management, support to HIV/AIDS programs in Kigali;
strategic drainage plans and anti-erosion infrastructure (the latter financed by the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF)); and (e) studies and cross-cutting activities (such as update of
City Contracts and preparation of APL II), and other training activities for districts,
central government, and local contractors. Sub-component 2: Funding to implement
resettlement action plans and any unexpected resettlement. Sub-component 3: Support to
project implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and technical assistance and training
to the Project Coordination Unit and to the newly created Public Works Contract
Management Agency (ASSETIP).

1.6 Revised Components
The pilot street addressing activity was moved from Component 2 to Component 3.
Otherwise, the components were not revised. The second phase of the APL was dropped,
but this did not affect the first phase, which is the subject of this ICR.

1.7 Other significant changes
During discussions for the FY09-12 CAS, the Government requested to drop APL II,
wishing to focus World Bank resources on a limited number of operations and move
towards budget support, including for urban development. The Intermediate Outcome
Indicators and APL II trigger relative to urban audits and City Contracts was dropped
through a third-level project restructuring approved by the Country Director on January
15, 2009. However, the project updated the urban audits to allow the beneficiary cities to
prepare for follow-up operations in the sector. The modification did not affect the
achievement of PDO or outcome indicators. The project was extended by nine months to
allow full implementation of the remaining activities planned under APL I and to
consolidate project achievements and ensure sustainability of the developed urban
management tools (see section 2.2 Implementation for details).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Preparation
Preparation of the UICMP took place in a context of growing recognition of the
importance of urban sector issues. Project preparation took four years. However, this
should be seen in light of the difficulties faced in preparing an operation in a sector for
which there was neither experience nor data on urban development. The previous Bank-
financed project closed more than 10 years ago.

Project preparation was used constructively to conduct the necessary background analysis
and carry out basic studies with the participation of district staff, communities and local
consultants trained for this purpose. It was also used to build consensus around a strategy
for urban development and the Common Development Fund (CDF) for transfers to the
districts, and to establish the ASSETIP. Enlarging the geographic coverage of the project
beyond Kigali was another central element of project preparation that took time to
prepare, as was coordination with other donors. Further, the project was prepared,
appraised and negotiated as a Specific Investment Loan for an amount of US$40 million


                                             4
over five years, but due to IDA allocation shortage the project was redesigned as an APL
in two phases of US$20 million each before renegotiation.

The UICMP responded to the objectives of the CAS and the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper regarding integration of social concerns of the population into the development
process. Communities in impoverished areas were empowered through their involvement
in the design of the slum upgrading program and in a workshop on the modalities for
delegated contract management. The Bank's intervention was justified by the experience
brought to the table, especially in terms of urban management tools, the City Contract
approach building on audits, and safeguards in relation to urban upgrading.

The preparation of the UICMP benefited from strong Government support and swift
response to project preparation activities such as the establishment of a delegated contract
management agency and adequate resource allocation. During preparation, the
Government laid the groundwork for developing pro-poor urban development and
upgrading strategies, based on a number of key documents and studies: (a) a strategic
framework detailing key elements of an urban strategy; (b) a strategy for slum upgrading
in Kigali, marking a shift from the practice of eviction and demolition of irregular zones
to solutions which focus on improving the living conditions of the affected population;
(c) a strategy for low-income development areas; and (d) a resettlement policy framework
for the project.
Design
The PDO was highly relevant, focusing on access to priority urban infrastructure as the
overall objective. To achieve this objective, the project directly financed infrastructure
investments, while the design also included well-targeted activities aimed at
strengthening beneficiary cities' use of improved urban management tools for
programming, implementing and monitoring their investment programs, and improving
municipal management and maintenance capacity. This would lay the groundwork for
continued improvements in access to infrastructure.

The project design built on the idea of the City Contract, a document signed between the
city and the central government, detailing performance targets and commitments on both
sides. Other types of contractual approaches were already known in Rwanda, but the
Bank was able to contribute lessons learned elsewhere in Africa on the specific City
Contract approach, and facilitate institutionalization and adaptation to the local context.
The City Contract links investments, financed by the Government for the cities (priority
investment program), with the cities' obligations in terms of infrastructure and facilities
maintenance budgets (priority maintenance program), along with a municipal support
program detailing the technical assistance to be provided to the local government. The
content of the City Contracts was finalized based on urban, financial, and organizational
audits carried out during the project preparation phase to identify physical and
institutional interventions. The audits built on existing local development plans, and
involved the active participation of the local government concerned, assuring continuity
of interventions and full ownership of the process.

The extensive consultations with all stakeholders also contributed to bringing to light any
implementation risks and developing mitigation measures. These included capacity


                                             5
building and technical assistance required to assure that implementation arrangements
were sound, that SMEs were able to participate actively, and that counterpart
contributions were made on a timely basis.

In coordination with the Cities Alliance and UN-Habitat, the project would test the new
urban strategy, developed during project preparation, through a number of pilot projects.
The objective was to develop a platform to advocate and test principles and mechanisms
that take account of specific needs of low-income populations in city planning and to
better address urban poverty in national poverty reduction strategies. The project was
further designed to assure full coordination of investments financed by IDA and the NDF,
including common implementation procedures. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
would assure overall project coordination and reporting while a delegated contract
management agency, the newly created ASSETIP, would implement infrastructure
investments.
Quality at entry
Quality at entry is rated highly satisfactory. The four year preparation and consultation
process was used constructively and productively to lay the groundwork for well-targeted
interventions, and was necessary to assure shared ownership of the project and
coordination of activities financed by different donors. The project preparation dialogue
with involvement of all stakeholders resulted in a project with potential significant
impacts beyond the project context. The design was sound, as testified by the fact that
even in the absence of an APL II, the project was largely able to consolidate and assure
sustainability of achievements.

2.2 Implementation
Project implementation encountered challenges with regard to the evolving
decentralization process, implementation of works, assuring full operation of all sub-
projects, consultant performance, and not least the cancellation of APL II. All these
problems were handled proactively by the PCU and the Bank team in a manner that
assured achievement of project outcomes.
Responding to the evolving decentralization process
The decentralization process evolved during implementation, with a transfer of
competencies, particularly regarding financial management, between the City of Kigali,
districts, and sectors. Modernization of the financial management of Kigali was an
activity that was initially intended to be carried out in parallel to the UICMP under a
Cities Alliance grant. To facilitate implementation of this grant, implementation
responsibility was transferred to IDA. This provided an opportunity to restructure and
align activities to make accounting assistance available to the districts and sectors,
building capacity to fulfill their newly transferred mandate.
Quality of technical studies and implementation of works
During the project's civil works activities, replacement of Electrogaz (electricity and
water utilities) networks initially caused some delays, since the utility had not been
consulted during the technical studies and the networks had not been taken into account.
After the mid-term review (MTR), ASSETIP was active in assuring that the technical
studies took into account the location of utility networks and all works were finished


                                            6
before project closure and utility networks fully reestablished. Technical audits have
confirmed the satisfactory quality of all works.
Assuring full operation of sub-projects
The MTR carried out an extensive review of project achievements and implementation
progress and was used to make minor adjustments. In Musanze district, two sub-projects
that were not fully operational were actively sorted out by transferring the operation of a
multipurpose hall to a private operator and reaching an agreement with UNICEF to
assure water provision to the Karwasa health center.
Cancellation of ALP II and adjustments to implementation
The dialogue between the Bank and the Government on the new CAS resulted in APL II
being cancelled. This happened shortly after the MTR had confirmed that progress
towards meeting APL II triggers was satisfactory and preparations for APL II had been
launched (see Sections 1.7 and 3.2 for the reasons for cancelling APL II). Following this
decision, the project was restructured on January 15, 2009 to reflect the impact of this
dropping in the project result framework. The original closing date was extended by nine
months to consolidate project achievements and ensure sustainability of the developed
urban management tools.

The extension also allowed to make up for delays in the construction of the Kicukiro bus
station resulting from several site modifications due to land issues, delays in
implementation of the street addressing (see paragraph below), and update the urban,
organizational, and financial audits for Kigali and the beneficiary districts in preparation
of a future operation in the sector. In addition, the Bank team and PCU developed
mitigation measures and an action plan to assure sustainability of investments in the
absence of continued support within a project context. This action plan was actively
implemented during the project extension, and the restructuring of the Ministry of
Infrastructure (MININFRA) with establishment of the Rwanda Housing Authority
(RHA), incorporating the mandate and tools of the PCU, is a result of this dialogue.
Consultant performance
All investments and activities except for one phase of a pilot sub-component for Kigali
have been completed. This is Phase II of the street addressing sub-component, which is
now being finalized using city revenue and MININFRA allocations. The reason for the
delay in completing this activity is poor performance of the consultant, whose contract
had to be terminated following several warnings, with the result that only the soft part of
the work (design of the system) was completed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design
The results indicators in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) focused on the key
elements of the PDO: improving access to priority urban infrastructure in the short term
and making the necessary funds available to maintain infrastructure and facilities, while
developing the tools that would lay the foundations for continued improvements in the
long term. The performance of ASSETIP would also be monitored, while the City
Contracts and tracking of selected municipal financial ratios would provide information



                                             7
on the performance of the local governments. The M&E framework design was sound,
based on simple data collection methods.
Implementation
The project was implemented in a general context of strong focus on results, with all
levels of the Rwandan administration involved in regular performance reviews.
Shortcomings in attribution of M&E responsibility were solved early on and
responsibility was clearly given to the PCU, with input from the various implementing
agencies. M&E data was collected, consolidated and systematically evaluated by the
PCU and shared with the Bank, as evidenced by the regular updates to the
Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR).
Utilization
The M&E framework was actively used to make minor adjustments to project
implementation. As detailed in the Datasheet, the project disaggregated some indicators
to enable the tracking of impact of different types of infrastructure. The indicators were
also adapted to take into account the incorporation of rural areas into the new districts.
The MTR was timely and was used to review project progress in depth, confirming the
progress towards meeting key performance indicators. The high operating cost of
ASSETIP compared to the target was analyzed, appropriate solutions found, and the
indicator adjusted to a new realistic target.2 Most of the tools used to assure regular data
collection, such as the City Contracts and financial ratios, will continue to be useful tools
to follow performance of the local governments both in terms of self-evaluation and
oversight.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards compliance
The project was rated Category B as no adverse long-term impacts were anticipated.
OP4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP4.12 Involuntary Resettlement were triggered.
The use of the resettlement framework initially caused some delays due to the novelty of
the approach in Rwanda and the necessity to modify technical specifications of sub-
projects to minimize adverse social impacts. However, all involved parties (the PCU,
ASSETIP, land agencies of Kigali and its district land boards, and the Rwanda
Environment Management Agency) collaborated to adopt the resettlement
procedures.

The Environmental Management Plan has been well implemented and recommendations
to improve infrastructure sustainability, security of beneficiaries, and environmental
management have been taken into account. The Resettlement Action Plans have been
completed and recommendations to finalize compensation taken into account. A total of
866 persons were compensated in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plans. The
June 2009 and March 2010 implementation support missions by Bank safeguards
specialists confirmed that Bank safeguards policies have been respected.

2
 The adjustment was approved by the CD along with the dropping of the APL II City Contract trigger. See
Datasheet for details.



                                                  8
Fiduciary compliance
Procurement and financial management is rated Satisfactory. The post-procurement
review at the MTR confirmed satisfactory procurement performance and the
implementing agencies have implemented the audit action plan as required.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Reflections on implementation modalities for the APL II were launched at the MTR.
Based on these reflections, work was started to fully mainstream the PCU capacities and
tools into the government administration. An action plan was developed prior to the
closing of the project to transfer capacities and institutionalize the use of project tools by
the involved parties. Most of the urban management tools developed under the project
have been mainstreamed into national programs piloted by MININFRA and districts.
These include (a) urban audits and City Contracts; (b) street addressing; and (c) slum
upgrading. Most importantly, following the completion of the project, MININFRA has
decided to establish the Rwanda Housing Authority (RHA) as a new institution within the
Ministry. The establishment of the RHA is a clear indication of the Government's
intention to sustain the project's key contributions to urban management, as it will adopt
the work programs and urban management tools developed under the project. The
financial management tools have been transferred to the Ministry of Local
Administration.

The City Contract approach is being institutionalized and five districts are in the process
of elaborating urban audits, based on which contracts will be prepared and signed. The
ASSETIP is foreseen to play a key role in the implementation of RHA activities and the
Government is in the process of establishing the legal framework that would allow
ministries, cities, districts, and other public institutions to enter into delegated contract
management agreements to implement infrastructure programs. ASSETIP has recently
signed, with the District of Huye, the first contract not related to the UICMP. The full
program of street addressing activities will be completed by the end of 2010 with funding
already assured jointly by the City of Kigali and MININFRA. All other investments and
activities have been completed and transferred to beneficiary entities and are functional.

An APL II would have allowed further support to assure continued improvements in
performance at all levels, in line with what was foreseen at appraisal. However, the basic
capacities and the political will exist to start the process of applying the tools developed
by the project to all cities in the country, in line with the PAD expectations that this
process would be well under way at the end of APL II. MININFRA has allocated US$2.6
million to the continued implementation of urban planning tools for 2010-2011. In
addition, anticipated support from other donors for road investments and general urban
management issues in Kigali will carry forward some elements of the urban development
strategy while some of the policy reform elements will be taken on in the Poverty
Reduction Support Grant series. The rehabilitation of 35 kilometers of asphalt roads in
Kigali is being supported by Chinese financing and UN-Habitat continues to support the
implementation of Urban Audits in other urban centers.




                                              9
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
Objectives
The objectives remain highly relevant. The program design reflected proper diagnosis of
development priorities, which remain relevant. While the urbanization rate continues to
increase, reaching 20 percent in 2007 and projected to reach 30 percent by 2020, poverty
in Kigali and other urban areas declined by only 3 and 5 percent respectively. This means
that on the whole, the total number of poor in urban areas remains unchanged. Further,
although the slum population as a percentage of the total population decreased from 88
percent in 2001 to 72 percent in 2005, the total slum population has continued to
increase, reaching 1.3 million. The urban context continues to be marked by numerous
under-serviced neighborhoods, significant lack of infrastructure and the need to develop
capacities at the decentralized level to support economic growth and poverty reduction.
There is also still a need to develop the economic potential of secondary cities to
counterbalance the attractiveness of Kigali.

In line with these challenges, the Government has increased the MININFRA budget
allocated to urban development and housing from US$1.8 million in 2009 to US$12.3
million for the 2010-2011 period. The funds are earmarked towards mainstreaming
project outcomes and tools into current government practices and budget procedures,
such as the continued use of the CDF. The decision by the Government to drop APL II
should thus not be interpreted as lack of priority given to the sector, but should be seen as
a push for stronger division of labor among donors, in line with the principles of the Paris
Declaration on Aid Effectiveness.

Regarding the current CAS (FY09-12), the City Contract approach is in line with the
theme on promoting economic transformation and growth, particularly in relation to
strengthening management of public resources at local levels. The culture of
maintenance, which the UICMP has helped instill based on the accompanying tools,
supports the focus of the CAS on long term sustainability of infrastructure services. The
project has also provided a number of tools that can help mitigate the weak
implementation capacity, particularly at the decentralized levels, a risk specifically
identified in the CAS.

The Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS) continues the
focus on development of improved urban human settlements consistent with the
contemplated sustainable land use and environment protection schemes. The habitat sub-
sector aims to develop a sound policy and strategy for urbanization in a sector-wide
approach, and will include all the stakeholders in an effort to strengthen the sub-sector.
Partnerships between government and the private sector will be of essence, building on
the experiences of the UICMP.
Design
As described above (Section 2.1), the design was relevant to the challenges identified at
appraisal and remains relevant to the current challenges in the urban sector. The



                                             10
incorporation of lessons learned regarding the City Contract and slum upgrading were
key success factors.
Implementation
During implementation, the project was adapted to meet the challenges posed by the
evolving decentralization process and the dropping of APL II. The Bank's
implementation team responded to these changing needs through changes to project
implementation schedule, activities, and approval of restructuring of triggers and targets.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Achievement of the PDO is rated highly satisfactory, as the project was implemented
with no shortcomings within the resources initially allocated. All key performance
indicators and intermediate outcome indicators have been met or surpassed. The target
number of beneficiaries has been exceeded. For Kigali and Butare (Huye), 535,580
people have gained access to paved roads, representing 129 percent of the end-of-project
target. For Musanze (Ruhengeri), 70,258 people have gained access to improved or new
social services, representing 195 percent of the target. Between 15 and 27 percent of
municipal budgets are now allocated to infrastructure and facilities maintenance,
compared to a target of 10 or 15 percent, demonstrating the ability of decentralized
entities to continue delivering services to their inhabitants and assure sustainable
maintenance. The achievement of the specific objectives, outlined in the PAD, is
described below:

(i) Development of programming and financing mechanisms for priority urban
investments through programmatic and participatory approaches. This objective has been
achieved. The City of Kigali and its three current districts, and the districts of Musanze
and Huye signed a City Contract with the Government, validated through a broad
participatory process, setting the requirements for investment, maintenance, and capacity
building. A second generation of urban audits has been conducted during the project,
paving the way for other development programs of decentralized structures to be
delivered through City Contracts. Further, the City Contract approach (known as
"Imihigo" in the local language) formed the basis for the performance contracts which
are now signed between the President and the mayors, based on local development plans
and mayors are rewarded according to the terms of these contracts.

(ii) Upgrading of infrastructure and service delivery in urban settings. This objective was
also achieved. In terms of access to infrastructure and services, the project has achieved
the following results in various sectors:
Transport
Construction of 22.64 kilometers of asphalted and stone paved roads has assured access
to roads in slums and poor neighborhoods, better circulation, and inter-connection of
districts. Transport cost has been reduced by up to 60 percent due to these additional
roads, and businesses are able to get provisions on a regular basis. Prices of staple foods
have gone down by 18 percent in neighborhoods surveyed, due to the improved
accessibility of the vendors. At least 51 new businesses have opened up along the
rehabilitated roads in Huye.



                                             11
The bus stations in Kicukiro and Kimironko favor inter-district movements and ensure a
smoother flow in the direction between Kimironko City, Kimironko-Nyabugogo, the City
of Kigali and the rest of the country. The bus stations generate US$40,000 per year in
revenues for the districts, but could show better results if operation was privatized based
on competitive bidding, which is foreseen.
Social infrastructure
The project has built and equipped: (a) three primary schools, resulting in a decrease in
the number of children in each class from 60 to 46, and an increase in the pass rate from
28 to 93 percent in the schools surveyed; (b) a health care center, reducing transport time
from three to two hours for the most distant population, and resulting in a tenfold increase
in family planning consultations, an increase in the number of assisted births from 466 in
2008 to 5,130 in 2009, and a reduction by 50 percent in the number of home births; (c) a
youth center in a poor neighborhood benefiting 500 youths on a daily basis; and (d) a
district administrative building and a sector office has improved security and contributed
to reducing the number of violent crimes and rapes in the neighborhood by 80 percent.
Land development
The project has developed a 33 hectare, low-income area in Akumunigo and improved
the condition of precarious neighborhoods with roadways, bridges and street lighting.
Erosion control
Considering the hilly nature of Kigali and Huye, the project has contributed to erosion
control through construction of drainage infrastructure, some of which is financed by
NDF.

(iii) Assisting local governments to improve local resource mobilization, financial
management, and capacity building of municipal management. This objective has been
achieved. Overall, financial resources have improved considerably (30 percent on
average) due to the tools made available by the project (financial ratios, hands-on
technical assistance, and equipment) and the culture of performance at central and local
government levels. Street addressing has been developed in Huye, Musanze, and partially
in Kigali, and pilot local development plans and restructuring plans have been prepared
for Musanze. Beneficiary districts are now able to use those tools. Based on project
achievements, a guide to municipal management tools has been developed that includes
all the tools used in the project such as urban audits, financial ratios, the City Contracts,
resettlement action plans, etc.

(iv) Testing the mechanisms of inter-government transfers through investment in urban
infrastructure. The provision of government funds to districts through the Common
Development Fund (CDF) to cover at least 5 percent of district investments costs has
been fully operational and the CDF is foreseen to continue funding investment programs
through the institutionalized City Contract arrangements.

(v) Strengthen the capacity of municipalities, urban actors, and local governments to
develop, implement, and evaluate strategies and urban development programs. This was
achieved from the preparation stage of the project through (a) a preparatory document for
urban strategy development; (b) preparation of a slum upgrading strategy and a concept


                                             12
note for establishment of low-income development zones; (c) elaboration of documents
on urban audits and safeguards, to better manage the district's investments; and (d) a pilot
for a simplified local development plan and restructuring zone plan for Musanze and
Huye.

Together with the Government's strategy for slum upgrading in Kigali, the use of Bank
safeguards facilitated a departure from the practice of eviction and demolition of irregular
zones to consultative solutions with a focus on the needs of the affected population. The
Government took the initiative to integrate the project's resettlement approach into the
resettlement and compensation law (see Section 3.5(c)). Training has been provided to a
wide range of stakeholders, including the land agencies, based on the experience
developed by the project in this field.

3.3 Efficiency
Efficiency of the project is high, as shown by the economic analysis carried out for the
Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) (see Annex 3). At appraisal, an
economic analysis was carried out only for the major roads in Kigali. Economic Rates of
Return (ERRs) for these roads were estimated at between 23 and 56 percent, and Net
Present Value (NPV) was US$8.4 million for an investment of US$7.0 million. These
roads are still economically justified at project closing, with ERRs of between 33 and 120
percent, and NPV of US$20.7 million for an investment of US$8.7 million. For the ICR,
an economic analysis was also carried out for the majority of the other roads financed
under Components 1 and 2 (US$11.6 million investment cost, including the roads in
Kigali) showing ERRs ranging from 29 to 120 percent and NPV of US$24.3 million.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly satisfactory
The project is rated highly satisfactory as its objectives were achieved with no
shortcomings and most of its targets being surpassed. The project was soundly designed
as APL I of a two-phase APL. The objectives of the project and the APL remain relevant,
as City Contracts are being prepared for other cities, in line with an enlarged geographic
spread of APL II compared to APL I. The components met or surpassed intermediate
results for APL I. Outcomes for APL I were achieved with no shortcomings and relevant
triggers for APL II were met. Efficiency of the completed investments is rated high (see
Section 3.3). Only one minor activity (street addressing for Kigali) was not completed
before the project closing, but will be completed in the coming months. The upgrade to
highly satisfactory compared to the satisfactory ratings in the ISRs is specifically justified
by the final evaluation of outcome and efficiency after project closure. In addition, the
establishment of the RHA further contributing to sustainability is worth recognition.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
By using labor-intensive construction techniques, the project generated more than
539,511 person-days of employment and distributed US$2.2 million in income to manual
labor. The impact evaluation showed that the additional income was primarily used to
pay for school fees for the workers' children, or spent on health insurance and other basic
needs.


                                              13
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project acted as a catalyst, bringing together multiple actors in the sector and
facilitating the establishment of the RHA as a single organizational unit to implement the
Government's policies in the sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Resettlement laws were updated as an indirect result of Bank safeguards requirements.
On the basis of the project resettlement action plans, the Government mainstreamed
market-based compensation into land management laws and the land agencies were
established to implement this government policy.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
A two-day stakeholder workshop was held during the MTR, with particularly strong
participation by the districts and city mayors. The participants expressed overall
satisfaction with the project and with the implementing agencies. The Government in
particular underlined the continued relevance of the UICMP to the decentralization
process. The relevance of the CDF and the City Contract approach was also stressed by
the beneficiaries and the performance in terms of maintenance was noted. The workshop
recommended continued training of new political leaders and technical staff in the use of
the management tools provided by the project and providing strong support to
decentralized structures for resource mobilization and financial management. The details
of the stakeholder workshop are provided in Annex 6.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The risk to development outcome comes primarily from three factors: (a) the cancellation
of APL II and consequently lack of continued Bank support to implement urban
management tools in a project context; (b) effective maintenance of infrastructure; and
(c) the implementation of the Kigali master plan developed by the Government, without
any Bank inputs, but whose implementation, especially in slum upgrading, could result
inconsistent approach to the UICMP slum upgrading approach.

Following the decision to cancel APL II, the Government and Bank teams collaborated
closely to develop and implement a mitigation action plan. Concerning the continued use
of urban management tools, the establishment of the RHA (see Section 2.5) combined
with significant demand from the districts substantially reduces the risk to development
outcome. Further, UN-Habitat is actively assisting other cities with the elaboration of
City Contracts, based on audits and local development plans.

The execution of the clauses of the City Contracts for maintenance has initiated a culture
of maintenance. For the three cities, budget resources allocated to and spent on
maintenance of infrastructure have increased as a result of the introduction of city
contracts and the enforcement of annual monitored maintenance plans. The satisfaction of
the mayors with project tools is another element that has contributed to improving
maintenance. In all districts, budgets for maintenance are higher than the targets, with a


                                            14
minimum of 15 percent of municipal financial resources allocated to infrastructure and
facilities maintenance. Districts continue to allocate and execute resources for
maintenance, with 59 percent spent at mid-year (end 2009). Despite these improvements,
the amounts remain at the lower end of what is needed to assure full maintenance, but the
strong commitment by districts to continue to use the tools and by the Government to
extend the experience of priority maintenance programs to all districts under the
leadership of the MININFRA give some measure of assurance that improvements will
continue. For the large roads, adequate maintenance funds are available through the
national Road Fund. Contacts have been made with ASSETIP to see how this
organization could support the implementation maintenance programs at the district and
national level.

The Bank was not involved in activities regarding the development or implementation of
the Kigali master plan, which was developed by the Government. However, in the
absence of an APL II, the Bank will maintain dialogue with the client through the policy
reform elements to be taken on in the Poverty Reduction Support Grant (PRSG) series to
avoid reputational risks that may result from the implementation of the Kigali master plan
and affecting negatively the project outcomes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The Bank facilitated a participatory process in the emerging urban sector, bringing
knowledge and tools that could be adapted to the Rwandan context and used
productively, including leveraging Bank safeguards policies in the dialogue to improve
resettlement processes. The Bank further facilitated the coordination of initiatives
financed by the Cities Alliance and UN-Habitat, and played a central role in bringing in
the NDF financing.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Bringing extensive experience from the region in improved urban management, IDA was
able to support consistent and incremental capacity building programs over an extended
period of time and consolidation of efforts under a coherent framework. Project
supervision was ahead of its time in terms of the Bank investment lending reform,
moving towards implementation support rather than supervision. The Bank was proactive
in its dialogue on mainstreaming PCU capacities into permanent administration
structures. The 2009-2012 CAS was prepared by the Bank with active participation of the
Ministry of Finance and in short time. The dropping of APL II was decided for the valid
reasons described above (see Sections 1.7 and 3.1) although preparations for the second
phase had already begun. This resulted in the Task Team having to react very quickly to
help the PCU mitigate the impact of dropping APL II.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


                                            15
The Bank team continuously supported the client through preparation and
implementation and facilitated a focus on results. There was continuity in team leadership
and members, a co-Task Team Leader was based in the field and carried out intermediary
technical missions, and field-based fiduciary and safeguards specialists actively
contributed to discussions on overall results. The overall performance of the Bank project
team is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
Government and beneficiary funds have been provided on time through the CDF. The
Government provided funds to cover additional expenses due to the
displacement/renovation of Electrogaz networks and for some PCU operating costs.
Despite many change in the line ministry, the Government's commitment to the project
has been constant. The City of Kigali provided funds for the resettlement of the
Akumunigo site and the expansion of the youth center. The Government has drafted the
law establishing the RHA which has been forwarded to the parliament for scrutiny and
adoption, making sure the tools developed by the project will continue to be used and that
the project knowledge will be incorporated into a permanent structure. Beneficiary cities
and districts have assured that 100 percent of project-financed facilities are operational.
The City of Kigali lived up to its obligations, except for effective management of the
Kimironko bus station by privatization through a competitive basis.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The PCU and ASSETIP have retained qualified, efficient, and skilled staff. Technical,
financial and progress reports were provided on time and good programming was
developed early in project implementation. Contacts with the Government and the Bank
team have been regular and excellent. The PCU was highly active in involving
beneficiaries in the definition and implementation of project activities.

In a culture of keeping local Government departments lean, with a minimum of
permanent staff, ASSETIP proved to be an efficient light structure to deliver timely and
quality investments through delegated contract management agreements. The agency has
lived up to key performance indicators. Delays in works execution, mainly due to the
shortage of cement, have not affected the quality of investments and only minor increases
were noted in supervision costs. 100 percent of programmed projects were satisfactorily
implemented by ASSETIP, as verified by an independent technical auditor.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
Both the Government (including beneficiaries) and implementing agency performance is
rated highly satisfactory, justifying an overall highly satisfactory rating of borrower
performance.

6. Lessons Learned



                                            16
The City Contract approach can be an efficient tool to facilitate improvements in
service delivery and municipal and urban management, and to accompany
decentralization, even within a limited timeframe. The project confirmed findings
from other urban development projects in the Africa Region that this approach and its
tools (priority investment program, priority maintenance program, municipal support
program, and financial ratios) can be used to effectively link infrastructure financing,
maintenance, and capacity building. The City Contract approach is flexible and could be
adapted to the Rwandan context. It proved highly effective in focusing activities on
results in a context marked by a combination of lack of capacity and rapidly evolving
decentralization.

Bank safeguard policies can be used as a basis for a constructive dialogue on
management of social and environmental impacts of development efforts in general,
bringing about changes that reach beyond the project context. Land management is
highly sensitive in Rwanda and the needs for slum upgrading are immense. Clearly
demonstrating the benefits of a market-based land valuation and participatory approach to
determining compensation led to changed approaches to slum upgrading and
resettlement, with a focus on the needs of the affected populations. With the majority of
the urban population living in slums, recognition of their needs and rights is an important
element in sound urban land management.

Shared ownership, simplicity, and integration underpin the M&E framework as a
tool to manage actively for results. Discussions on project results were initiated early in
project preparation, based on the participatory urban, financial, and organizational audits
carried out within the beneficiary local governments. This assured a shared understanding
of problems, solutions, and expected results among stakeholders, enshrined in the City
Contract. The simplicity of the tools, such as the financial ratios, meant they could be
understood and used by all parties. Further, their support to and integration into the
ongoing decentralization process assured their relevance as management tools. This
meant that the M&E framework could be used to assure achievement of results even in a
changing context. The ownership of project M&E tools is evidenced by the fact that they
now form the basis for signing performance contracts between the President and mayors,
assuring continued support for a results-based approach after project closing, both in
terms of self-evaluation and oversight.

The delegated contract management arrangement provided needed implementation
capacity and was well-suited to the Government's desire to keep the administration
lean in a post-conflict environment. Delegated contract management arrangements have
proved to be efficient in delivering quick results on the ground in the Rwandan context,
where the Government has an express desire to keep the administration lean and the
numbers of permanent staff on the government payroll to a minimum. The operating
costs for the ASSETIP were low towards the end of the project, and the quality was
beyond what the administration was able to deliver, both in terms of quality and quantity.
The relevance of the delegated contract approach is confirmed by the continued role of
the ASSETIP in delivering infrastructure services.




                                            17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Government's comments on the substance of the draft ICR relate to the process of
establishing the RHA and the compensation policy for resettlement. These comments (see
Annex 7 for details) have been incorporated into the final ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers
The NDF endorses the assessments in the draft ICR and notes that the cooperation has
been good. The ICR notes that key missions were well coordinated between the two
partners such as appraisal, mid-term review, and closing missions. The PCU was
implementing both UICMP and NDF-financed activities and all UICMP supervision
missions included review of NDF-financed activities.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
The task team has followed up with Cities Alliance, UN-Habitat and UNDP, which
received the draft ICR, but no formal comments have been provided.




                                          18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
            Components                              Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                    Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 Urban Infrastructure                    10.60             13.76                      129.81
 Slum upgrading and low income
                                          1.90              2.03                      106.84
development zones pilot projects
 Institutional capacity building
                                          4.00              3.61                      90.25
and project management

              Total Baseline Cost               16.50              18.70              113.33
Physical Contingencies
                                                 1.00*)             0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                 1.20*)             0.00                0.00
             Total Project Costs                18.70              19.41              103.80
Front-end fee PPF                                1.30               1.26               96.92
     Total Financing Required                   20.00              20.67              103.35
*) Transferred to actual cost of investments.

(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                              Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                            Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                          millions)   millions)
Borrower (Government of Rwanda) Co-financing                1.70        1.74       102.35
Borrower (local governments through
                                    Co-financing            0.90           0.90          100.00
CDF)
 IDA grant                                                 20.00           20.67         103.35
                                    Parallel
 Nordic Development Fund (NDF)                              6.40           7.13          111.41
                                    financing
Japan Policy and Human Resources
                                    Grant                   0.46           0.48          104.35
Development (PHRD)




                                                  19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Urban Infrastructure

Appraisal cost: US$10.00 million. Percent of appraisal cost: 53.0 percent.
Actual cost: US$13.76 million. Percent of actual total project cost: 66.6 percent.

City of Kigali

   ·   Roads: 12.81 kilometers of asphalt roads:
          o Giporoso-Kabeza-ISAE: 5.06 kilometers.
          o Mémorial-Fawe-Nyarutarama: 7.76 kilometers.
   ·   Bus station: Construction of Kimironko bus station.
   ·   Youth center: Construction of Kimisagara youth center including furniture and
       computer equipment.
   ·   Erosion protection: 1,063 meters of protective works for ravines:
          o Bibare: 862 meters.
          o Migina: 55 and 146 meters.
   ·   Erosion protection: protection of five other ravines and construction of 29 outlets.

District of Gasabo (Kigali)

   ·   Roads: 2.08 kilometers of stone paved road Ministères-Kinamba.
   ·   Administration building: construction of the Gasabo district office building.

District of Nyarugenge (Kigali)

   ·   School: Extension of Cyahafi primary school. Construction of 12 classrooms,
       Information Technology (IT) room, and management offices.
   ·   School: Rehabilitation and extension of Intwari primary school. Rehabilitation
       and construction of 25 classrooms, construction of IT room and management
       offices.
   ·   Administrative building: Building rehabilitation and modification of Mageragere
       sector office.
   ·   Water: Improvement of one water source in a rural area.
   ·   Roads: 0.78 kilometers stone pavement on four small access roads to Biryogo
       market.

District of Kicukiro (Kigali)

   ·   Bus station: Construction of the Kicukiro bus station.




                                            20
   ·   Low-income development area. Studies and bidding documents only for the
       development of the Kimisange site: 75 hectares with roads, drainage, electricity,
       and water, in preparation of APL II.


Ruhengeri (Musanze)

   ·   School: Extension of Kabaya primary school. Construction of 14 classrooms and
       office for the school director (including additional brick wall fence works) and
       furniture.
   ·   Health center: Construction and full equipment of 5 buildings in Karwasa
       (including additional access road works and minor improvements).
   ·   Multi-purpose hall: Construction of the Mubona multi-purpose hall (including
       additional works to improve parking conditions).

Butare (Huye)

   ·   Roads: 4.04 kilometers of asphalt roads:
          o Mukoni-Rango: 2.31 kilometers.
          o Librarie Universitaire-Matyazo: 1.73 kilometers.

Component 2: Slum upgrading and low income development zones pilot projects

Appraisal cost: US$1.90 million. Percent of appraisal project cost: 9.5 percent.
Actual cost: US$2.03 million. Percent of actual total project cost: 9.8 percent.

Sub-Component 1: Neighborhood upgrading.

   ·   Kimisagara: 2.93 kilometers of stone paved roads, bridges constructed, and
       rehabilitated installation of public lighting.

Sub-Component 2: Low-income development area.

   ·   Akumunigo pilot project: 33 hectares developed.

Component 3: Institutional capacity building and project management

Appraisal cost: US$4.00 million. Percent of appraisal cost: 20.0 percent.
Actual cost: US$3.61 million. Percent of actual total project cost: 17.5 percent

Sub-Component 1: Institutional capacity building.

   ·   Technical assistance to the City of Kigali and its districts and to the districts of
       Musanze and Huye.
   ·   Training of city, district, and sector staff in financial management and accounting,
       including targeted accounting assistance mission to the City of Kigali.


                                            21
   ·   Provision of facilities for the classification of tax records for the 35 sectors of
       Kigali City.
   ·   Resource mobilization plan for each of the three local governments.
   ·   Equipping the computer room of the City of Kigali.
   ·   Street addressing in Kigali, Musanze, and Huye and provision of equipment for
       street addressing units in Kigali City and the districts of Huye and Musanze
       (including pilot street addressing in poor neighborhood).
   ·   Financial data collection and establishment of financial ratio guides.
   ·   Local Development Plan for Musanze and support to implementation.
   ·   Initial urban audits for the City of Kigali and its districts and to the districts of
       Musanze and Huye, and update of the audits.
   ·   Priority Maintenane Program (PEP) evaluation report.
   ·   Guide to municipal management tools (urban, financial, and organizational audits,
       City Contract, financial ratios, performance indicators, resettlement action plans,
       priority maintenance program, and street addressing).
   ·   Developed practical guidelines for resource mobilization and training of the
       financial district staff on the same.
   ·   Accounting assistance to the City of Kigali and its three districts.
   ·   Training in computer skills of Musanze and Huye district staff.
   ·   Training on the preparation of resettlement action plan for all the 35 executive
       secretaries of Kigali, civil engineering consulting firms, and resettlement
       committee.
   ·   Counseling and voluntary HIV testing for all the beneficiary districts and the City
       of Kigali.
   ·   Equipping the finance departments of the districts and Kigali sectors with office
       furniture and computers.
   ·   Fiscal census in Musanze and Huye districts.
   ·   Training on the preparation of environmental and social impact study.
   ·   Training of small and medium enterprises on procurement and contract
       management.
   ·   Training of the Kigali district land committees on land law and land policy.
   ·   Training of PCU and ASSETIP staff.

Sub-Component 2: Resettlement.

   ·   Financing of three resettlement action plans.
   ·   Socio-economic impact assessment.

Sub-Component 3: Implementation assistance.

   ·   Support to implementation, monitoring and evaluation, technical assistance and
       training to the implementing agencies.
   ·   Financing of implementing agencies operating cost (PCU) and delegated contract
       management fees (ASSETIP).



                                            22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

An economic analysis was carried out at appraisal only for the main investments in road
infrastructure in Kigali. For the ICR, an ex-post economic analysis was carried out on the
majority of road investments (five road sections in Kigali and Huye). Even though the
same evaluation methodology was used for the PAD and ICR, comparison of the ERR
can be misleading, as the three road investments initially anticipated were regrouped into
two lots during implementation and evaluated as such for the ICR. However, with the
data available today, it is possible to carry out an ex-post economic analysis on the
majority of road sections financed by the project.

Approach used for the economic analysis
Following the same methodology as for the PAD, scenarios "with" and "without" project
were considered to determine net incremental costs and benefits of the roads. On the
basis of these scenarios, the net incremental financial benefits and actual costs of
investment programs were assessed. Cash flows are discounted using a discount rate of
12 percent. Costs include capital costs, operation and maintenance costs, and
rehabilitation costs.

Benefits of provision of urban services improved the quality of life of the poorest
residents in Kigali and in the two secondary cities. The economic rates of return
calculated for the project understate some of these social and environmental benefits
gained in the targeted cities. However, most of the following socio-economic quantifiable
and non-quantifiable benefits are included in the overall evaluation of project outcomes
(see main text, Sections 3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and 3.5
Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts):

   ·   Improvement in the quality of life through improved physical living conditions
       and environmental management;
   ·   Increased productivity and efficiency arising from reduced flooding and avoided
       flood damages to economic property;
   ·   Increase in property value due to improved overall amenities;
   ·   Enhanced investment climate due to improved service delivery;
   ·   Improved health with reduction in waterborne disease and reduced medical costs;
   ·   Enhanced local government capacity to fulfill their service delivery mandate;
   ·   Employment generation, market creation, promotion of increased private sector
       participation in the provision of services. By dimensioning public works
       appropriately and using labor-intensive methods, the project created employment
       opportunities for unskilled and semi-skilled labor and promoted SMEs in
       construction and urban services; and
   ·   Decreased production costs due to lower vehicle maintenance and transport costs
       resulting from road improvements.



                                            23
From a macro-economic perspective, by targeting the main cities in Rwanda, the project
had positive impacts linked to the following:

   ·   Economic growth: The project investments contributed directly to delivering
       economic growth, in particular through the provision of economic infrastructure
       (particularly roads and bus stations);
   ·   Employment generation: The project generated a considerable amount of short-
       term employment (SMEs and consultant firms) since labor (mainly unskilled
       labor) accounted for about 10 percent of total project investment costs (US$2.2
       million).

Given that interventions in all neighborhoods in the considered cities differ, as the access
to services and physical characteristics are not homogenous, an overall Economic Rate of
Return and Net Present Value are not calculated for the project. However, the analysis
will show that the program overall is economically viable as the analysis of the major
components have positive results. Road investments analyzed, accounting for US$11.6
million, i.e. 56 percent of total project cost and 68 percent of total project works, has a
global ERR of about 76 percent and Net Present Value of US$24.3 million.

Economic Analysis of Roads
A full economic analysis was performed on the sub-component related to structuring road
investments for Kigali using the Roads Economic Decision Model (RED), the same
methodology used at appraisal. In addition, the other road sections included in the
project, which were selected based on a demand-driven approach, and which could not be
subjected to economic analysis at appraisal, are included in the economic analysis carried
out for the ICR. RED is also used for the economic analysis of these roads.

Following the methodology described in the PAD, the road investments have been
assessed with an evaluation period limited to ten years, which is relatively conservative
for this type of analysis. The ICR analysis is also conservative as many other benefits
have not been quantified (i.e. cost of time, decreased production costs due to lower
vehicle maintenance, and transport costs resulting from road improvements), also in line
with the appraisal methodology.

Economic unit costs (basic input data feeding into the RED analysis for each road section
and calculated using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model-4 (HDM-4)
vehicle operating cost module) were updated to current (2010) costs. Other calibration
data used in the RED analysis carried out at appraisal was maintained for the ICR
analysis. ERRs at ICR are calculated based on actual investment costs for each road
section and traffic counting carried out in March 2010.

RED was run for each of the five major road sections financed in Kigali and Huye and
the results of the economic analysis are presented below. All road sections are
economically justified, with ERR varying from 29 percent to 120 percent and NPV from
US$697,000 to US$17.1 million. The sections that were subjected to economic analysis
at appraisal are still economically justified at project closing. Further underscoring the


                                            24
economic justification of the investments, we note that the infrastructures that were
selected based on a demand-driven approach, using socio-economic criteria (and not
subjected to economic analysis at appraisal), also turn out to be justified from a purely
economic point of view. Table 1 below summarizes the results and Table 2 gives details
of one road section.
Table 1: Summary of Economic Analysis of Road Rehabilitation Works for the project
Road section                       Length      Financial investment        ERR        NPV
                                    (km)            cost (US$)                       (US$)
Kigali
Giporoso-Kabeza-ISAE                  5.1                   3,397,839       33%       2,974,000
Memorial-Fawe-Nyaturama               7.8                   5,314,036      120%      17,727,000
Ministères-Kinamba                    2.1                     532,471       82%       1,797,000
Huye
Mukoni-Rango                         2.3                    1,598,826      29%        1,089,000
Librarie-Matyazo                     1.7                      797,577      33%          697,000
Total/weighted                       19.0                  11,640,749      76%       24,284,000

The two major road sections in Kigali, Giporoso-Kabeza-ISAE and Memorial-Fawe-
Nyaturama, have ERRs of 33 percent and 120 percent respectively. The other section in
Kigali, Ministères-Kinamba, is also economically viable, with an ERR of 82 percent. The
two sections in Huye have ERR of 33 percent (Librarie-Matyazo) and 29 percent
(Mukoni-Rango).
Table 2: Detailed Results Economic Analysis: Memorial-Fawe-Nyarutarama
Country                           RWANDA
Project                           PIGU
Road                              Tronçon Memorial - Fawe ­ Nyarutarama
                                                                   Alternative 1
                                                            Upgrade to Asphalt Concrete
                                                                     Standard
Net Present Value (million $) at 12% Discount Rate                    17.727
Internal Rate of Return (%)                                            120%
Equivalent Annual Net Benefits ($/km) at 12% Discount                 557019
Modified Rate of Return at 12% Reinvestment Rate (%)                    40%
Net Present Value per Financial Investment Costs (ratio)                6.06
Net Present Value per PV of Economic Agency Costs                       6.29
First-Year Benefits per Economic Investment Cost (ratio)                1.20
Financial Investment Costs (million $)                                  3.32
PV of Economic Agency Costs (million $)                                 2.72
PV of Economic Normal Traffic User Costs (million $)                   23.30
PV of Economic Generated Traffic User Costs (million $)                 1.17
PV of Economic Society Costs (million $)                               27.18
Number of Fatalities per km-year After Investment                     0.0000
Investment per Population Served ($/person)                        7.793687669
Population Served per Investment (persons/1000$)                       128.3



                                                 25
Ex-post economic analysis shows that structuring road investments made in Kigali under
Component 1 of the project were highly profitable, with NPV higher than initially
calculated at appraisal (US$20.7 million vs. US$8.4 million for these two roads). This is
mostly due to higher than anticipated traffic. On these two roads, transport of persons
(cars and buses) increased by 22 percent annually between appraisal and project closing.
Transport of goods also went up, by 14 percent per year, while light transport by bicycle
and motorcycle saw a more moderate increase of 5 percent per year.

Sensitivity Analysis. As at appraisal, a sensitivity analysis was carried out for each of the
road sections analyzed. An example is detailed below and supported by the results. The
sensitivity analysis calculated the impact of single-variable changes in a static setting and
shows that the results are robust for the cases analyzed. A factor of 0.75 was applied to
the key main following inputs: Normal Traffic vehicules per day (vpd), Normal Traffic
Growth Rate (%), Generated Traffic (vpd), Induced Traffic (vpd), Passenger Time Costs
(US$/hr), Cargo Time Costs (US$/hr), Wet Season Duration (days), Project Dry Season
Road Length (km), Project Dry Season Roughness (IRI), Project Wet Season Road
Length (km), Project Wet Season Roughness (IRI), Project Accidents Rate (#/m veh-km),
Project Investment Costs (US$000$/km), and Project Maintenance Costs
(US$000/km/yr).




                                             26
27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                             Title                Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Ernestina Attafuah         Senior Program Assistant               AFTUW
Sylvie Debomy              Sr Urban Planner                       LCSUW TTL
Catherine D. Farvacque-                                                  TTL, initial
                           Lead Urban Specialist                  WBIUR
Vitkovic                                                                 preparation
Sophie Hans-Moevi          Language Program Assistant             AFTSN
Paul Kriss                 Lead Urban Specialist                  EASCS
Joseph Kizito Mubiru       Sr Financial Management Specialist     LCSFM
Prosper Nindorera          Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
Deo-Marcel Niyungeko       Senior Municipal Engineer              AFTUW
Isabelle Paris             Sr Environmental Specialist             CESI2
Emmanuel Tchoukou          Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM
Denise R. Vaudaine         Consultant                             AFTU2
Supervision/ICR
                                                                          TTL, preparation &
Sylvie Debomy              Sr Urban Planner                       LCSUW
                                                                          implementation
Ernestina Attafuah         Senior Program Assistant               AFTUW
Otieno Ayany               Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM
Yvette Laure Djachechi     Senior Social Development Specialist   AFTCS
Maya El-Azzazi             Program Assistant                      MNSSD
Diego Garrido Martin       E T Consultant                         AFTRL
Lungiswa Thandiwe Gxaba    Sr Environmental Specialist            AFTEN
Bathilde Jyulijyesage      Program Assistant                      AFMRW
Chantal Kajangwe           Procurement Analyst                    AFTPC
Abdoulaye Kane             Urban Specialist                       AFMBF
Lucienne M. M'Baipor       Social Development Specialist          AFTCS
Joseph Kizito Mubiru       Sr Financial Management Specialist     LCSFM
Deo-Marcel Niyungeko       Senior Municipal Engineer              AFTUW TTL, ICR
Africa Eshogba Olojoba     Sr Environmental Specialist            AFTEN
Moustapha Ould El Bechir   Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
Helen Z. Shahriari         Sr Social Scientist                     ECSS4
Marie-Adele Tchakounte     Language Program Assistant             AFTUW
ChristianVang Eghoff       Operations Officer                      AFCF1 ICR primary author




                                              28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                       8                        69.68
  FY03                                      15                        91.52
  FY04                                      24                       105.67
  FY05                                      44                       185.97
  FY06                                      18                        50.41
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:         109                         503.25
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                13.58
  FY07                                    27                          75.65
  FY08                                    34                         117.92
  FY09                                    24                          87.10
  FY10                                    28                         102.80
                          Total:         113                         303.47




                                       29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A socio-economic evaluation was carried out at project closing, including a questionnaire
survey of neighborhood heads. The relevant findings from the evaluation are presented in
the main text.




                                           30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A two day workshop was held during the MTR with participation of all stakeholders
involved in project implementation. The mayors of the City of Kigali and the beneficiary
districts were particularly active participants during this workshop, which provided an
opportunity to gather the views of all involved and develop suggestions to strengthen the
project going forward. The main findings were:

   ·   Recognition by the Government and support expressed for the UICMP approach
       and the continued relevance to policy goals and decentralization;
   ·   Expression of general satisfaction by mayors and involved structures;
   ·   Need to strengthen communication and assure regular refresher activities for
       concepts and tools developed by the project, assuring increased involvement of
       new political leaders and technical staff;
   ·   The stakeholders were satisfied concerning the CDF financing mechanism and the
       City Contract approach had been embraced by beneficiaries;
   ·   There was a need for additional support to decentralized structures in resource
       mobilization and financial management;
   ·   Excellent performance in infrastructure maintenance programming and
       implementation by beneficiaries;
   ·   Good overall performance of the delegated contract manager (ASSETIP),
       established before the start of the project;
   ·   Good quality of works but weak performance of works supervisors;
   ·   Increase in cost compared to study and appraisal estimates due to: (a) shortage of
       cement and resulting price hikes (42 percent increase from July 2007); (b) cost of
       fuel; (c) impact of rains, which delayed works and occasionally broke down
       ongoing works; and (d) the insufficient quality of preparatory studies for roads.
   ·   Need to accelerate preparations for APL II given that 80 percent of APL I funds
       were already committed and works were ongoing.




                                           31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(a) Summary in English of the Borrower's ICR

The full text of the executive summary of the Borrower's Final Project Completion
Report (November 2009) is included below, including the changes made to the text, by
the client, after reviewing the version of the Borrower's ICR included in the draft Bank
ICR.

Begin quotation.

Executive Summary
   In accordance with applicable guidance, the Project PIGU expires on 31st December,
2009. It has made commendable achievements, unanimously recognized by partners and
beneficiaries.
The project had the merit to have intervened at a crucial period corresponding to the
relaunch in Rwanda of major reforms in the field of decentralization and infrastructure.
The value added of the project in this process is grouped in three categories:
The first added value is to have contributed to the creation of a synergistic framework
through which the two actors MINALOC and MININFRA have been able to work jointly
for the promotion of local government in a consistent linking capacity and
implementation of infrastructure within a decentralized participatory approach.
By integrating the two components through a unique coordination, the project has
increased the efficiency more than if the two components were conducted in a juxtaposed
manner in different structures.
The second added value is providing an innovative instrument in this case the City
Contract between the parties involved in mutual obligations contributing to the
achievement of agreed objectives in the field of infrastructure and decentralization.
While the idea of a performance contract is not new in Rwanda, there is indeed, a kind of
city contract signed between the Executive on the top and local executive, in the
framework of an instrument called "Imihigo". However, the tools provided in the
mechanisms of the agreement proposed by the City Project will maximize the opportunity
of achieving easier goals. In the particular case, the definition of priority plans contained
in the contract stems from a more systemic and participative need for existing and
potential real diagnosis available for respond to the needs by offering appropriate
measures to increase the capacity for this potential.
The third added value is the implementation of infrastructure projects through the agency
endowed with the delegation by the districts, the mastery of structure, partly to reduce
workloads, partly to support it in skills related to studies, execution and monitoring
works.
 At the end of the first phase of the project, the impressive results observed are as
follows:



                                             32
   -   District staffing with infrastructure and bus stations that have helped change the
       face of Kigali and two other districts, and participating in dynamic activities in the
       areas of intervention;
   -   The valuation of low income areas through the provision of basic services and
       improving the standard of living, such as the provision of public lighting, etc.
   -   The construction of social infrastructure, such as schools and health centers, that
       contribute to increased numbers of classrooms thus reducing the congestion of
       students per classroom, or bring the health care facilities closer to the population
  Beyond the quantitative results that can capture all the practical realities, the project has
transformed the lives of thousands of people in Rwanda. This applies to those young
people who can now easily access different areas of interest including educational
facilities like the Kigali Independent University or just earning a living on new roads by
operating motorcycle taxis that have become more numerous and inexpensive than
before.
In its way, the project has contributed to the vibrancy of the city. This is the case of
Tumba area in Huye District where life stopped at 18 hours due to the poor quality of the
road. Today, the movements continue beyond 21 hours, to the delight of traders. The road
has enhanced in the revitalization of activities, to influence other areas (extension of the
city) or even to a more modest scale, to improve the stock management. A trader located
along the reconstructed road indicated that since the road is paved, he mobilizes more
cash in his stock, since he can now be supplied directly by the supplier, through vans that
pass all the time in front of his business center. Elsewhere, we observe a significant
injection of money. One house is cited as an example. Purchased at RWF 4 800 000 three
months ago, the new owner after building the fence just resold it at RWF 22 million. This
indicates major changes coming in the city.
The project has also strengthened social ties within communities, among other things,
with some built infrastructure serving as a meeting place and part of community
development initiatives.
All these achievements have been accompanied with the capacity building of municipal
managers in resource mobilization, financial management, and accounting to enhance
their skills not only to perform better but also to improve the district revenues.
The project was entrusted to a team of honest, competent, and dedicated managers, clear
and transparent rules, and regular monitoring, allowing expeditious decision-making
when adjustments were needed on the project site.
The initial objectives set for the project were conceived with the expectation of two
implementation phases.
When the project attained its completion with the implementation of only the first phase,
there remained challenges associated with the sustainability of the tools developed during
the project lifespan.



                                              33
These challenges mainly include the following:


   -   Sustaining the benefits acquired through the capacity building process;
   -   Ensure the sustainability of implementation strategies promoted by the project,
       including the use of City Contract and the adoption by the districts of a delegated
       contract management system to an autonomous agency;
   -   Make use of the experience gained in the development pilot low-income zones in
       formulating a policy for the management of slum areas;
   -   Optimize the profitability of some investments and implement management
       mechanisms to ensure maximization of the district revenues; and
   -   Strengthen the technical capacity of implementation partners commensurate with
       the decentralization and infrastructure development.

End quotation.

(b) Comments received from the government on draft Bank ICR

The Government provided comments directly inserted in the draft ICR, including editing
changes. The full, 47 page draft ICR annotated by the Government is not included here.
Rather, the few comments on substance are presented below. The comments concerned
the following sections:

   ·   2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase: The Government specified that the
       incorporation of PCU staff into the RHA, under establishment, is not finally
       confirmed.
   ·   3.5 (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative): Request
       to rephrase the paragraph to take into account mainstreaming of market-based
       compensation policy.
   ·   5.2 (a) Government performance: The Government pointed out that the law
       establishing the RHA has been drafted by the Government and forwarded to the
       parliament for scrutiny and adoption.
   ·   Annex 2. Outputs by Component: The activities were specified in more detail.

These comments have been incorporated into the final ICR.




                                           34
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments were received from the NDF and are included below in full.

Begin quotation.

NDF'S COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT ICR REPORT IDA-H1880 OF THE WORLD
BANK

URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND CITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND CREDIT NO. NDF 439

Credit amount: EUR 5 million

Key dates:
       Signing                14.12.2005
       Effectiveness          21.09.2006
       Closing                31.12.2010

Disbursement rate as per             31.5.2010              90%

Interim rating (2009) Implementing Agency performance Satisfactory
                Lead Agency (WB) cooperation      Satisfactory
                Project outcomes          Satisfactory

The project was designed jointly to coordinate the investments to be financed by IDA and
NDF. NDF credit was earmarked for stormwater drainage and erosion control
improvements and would finance master planning and design of stormwater drainage
systems, related implementation and supervision of works, resettlement action plans and
compensations for affected persons. Furthermore, the project was to finance some
equipment for, and some operating costs of, ASSETIP.

Parallel with the procurement of strategic planning consultants, investments could also be
started early as the result of designs that had been prepared in advance for two ravines,
Bibare and Migina, with the support of IDA. After this first NDF works contract, nine
other works contracts for some 26 priority drainage and erosion control systems have
been completed in Kigali, mainly in connection with road works financed by IDA.
Favorable development of the value of Euro during the project made it further possible to
provide some joint co-financing for IDA-financed road contracts in Kigali and Huye.
Furthermore, a small road works contract is still ongoing at Kimisange site for new urban
development. This is expected to be completed before the end of 2010.

The works for the ten contracts have been completed satisfactorily with some short and
some long delays, under good technical and financial supervision, and with high quality
workmanship and materials. The stormwater systems are in priority locations and are
expected to provide a sustainable solution to local drainage and erosion problems if



                                           35
appropriate basic drains maintenance will be available. The contracts were carried out
using labor-intensive methods and have been a welcome additional source of income to
women and men living close to the various works sites.

NDF endorses the assessments in the draft ICR report of IDA. The slightly lower ratings
of the NDF project are mainly due to the administrative and other delays experienced
during the project and due to shortcomings in progress reporting. The cooperation with
the World Bank has been good but might still have benefited from better coordination of
supervision missions.

NDF/01.06.2010

End quotation.




                                           36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   ·   Project Appraisal Document
   ·   Appraisal and ICR economic analysis of roads
   ·   Development Financing Agreement
   ·   ASSETIP Project Agreement
   ·   City Contracts
   ·   Project aide-mémoires
   ·   Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)
   ·   Annual progress reports (2006-2009)
   ·   ASSETIP technical audit (2009)
   ·   Financial Audits
   ·   Government Project Completion Report
   ·   Socio-economic impact analysis of sub-projects
   ·   Socio-economic impact evaluation of slum upgrading strategy
   ·   Project restructuring ­ Official Memorandum (January 12, 2009)
   ·   Law Establishing the Rwanda Housing Authority




                                         37
Annex 10 (Supplemental Annex): Photo Documentation

                     ROAD: GIPOROSO-KABEZA (KIGALI)




   BEFORE (DURING CONSTRUCTION)                          AFTER


              ROAD: MÉMORIAL-FAWE-NYARUTARAMA (KIGALI)




                                   38
BEFORE                                 AFTER




         ROAD: MUKONI-RANGO (BUTARE)




                     39
                               BEFORE                                 AFTER


                                    KARWASA HEALTH CENTER (RUHENGERI)




THIS IS THE OLD RENTED DISPENSARY BUILDING BUT WHICH WAS LOCATED AT       AFTER THE NEW HEALTH CENTER
   A DIFFERENT LOCATION FROM WHERE THE NEW HEALTH CENTER WAS                      CONSTRUCTED
                          CONSTRUCTED




                                                      40
         KABAYA PRIMARY SCHOOL (RUHENGERI)




BEFORE                                   AFTER

         ONE OF THE MANY OUTLETS CONSTRUCTED




                         41
BEFORE        AFTER




         42
         BIBARE - RAVINE




BEFORE                     AFTER




               43
MAP




      44
