                                                                                                97563
Rwanda Urban Infrastructure and City Management Project                             September 22, 2010




 THE RWANDA EXPERIENCE

 Urban Infrastructure and City Management Tools




Overview
Since 2006, the International Development Association (IDA) support has enabled the
Rwandan cities of Kigali, Huye and Musanze to improve service provision to their citizens. For
example, in Kigali and Huye, 535,580 people have gained access to paved roads. In Musanze,
70,258 people have gained access to an improved health center, school and multipurpose hall
facilities. By 2009, 15-27 percent of municipal budgets were allocated to infrastructure and
facilities maintenance, from a baseline in 2006 of 2.5 percent in Kigali City, 2 percent in Huye
district and 7 percent in Musanze district. This increase demonstrates the improved ability of
these cities to continue to deliver and maintain services to their inhabitants.


Challenge
The urban sector in Rwanda faces multiple challenges
                                                                   More Results
stemming from a mismatch between infrastructure
development/service delivery and high levels and growth

                                                                   70,258
rates of the urban population. The urbanization rate had
reached 20 percent in 2004, up from 6 percent in 1991, with
a particularly high population growth rate in Kigali,
representing a threefold increase in population between 1994       people have gained access to an
                                                                   improved health center, school
and 2002. The level of infrastructure in Kigali was intended to    and multipurpose hall facilities.
accommodate about 450,000 people, whereas the population
had reached over 800,000 inhabitants. Secondary cities
registered a twofold increase in population over the same
period. Rapid urbanization had resulted in unplanned and
squalid settlements, urban sprawl, and increasing urban
poverty. More than 80 percent of the population of Kigali and
                                                                   $20.7
85 to 90 percent of the population of secondary cities lived in
informal neighborhoods, often in areas considered precarious       million
or unsafe.                                                         amount of IDA grant to Rwanda
                                                                   Urban Infrastructure project

Approach

The Rwanda Urban Infrastructure and City Management
Project (RUICMP), was designed to improve the provision of        MORE INFORMATION
priority infrastructure and services in the cities of Kigali
(about 800,000 inhabitants in 2006), Huye (about 100,000            Rwanda Urban Infrastructure
                                                                    and City Management Project
inhabitants) and Musanze (about 100,000 inhabitants). This
                                                                    (2003-2009)
project built on the idea of the City Contract, a document
signed between the city and the central government,                 Country Website
detailing performance targets and commitments on both               Infrastructure Website
sides. The targets were based on audits (urban, financial,
and organizational) carried out during the project preparation
phase to identify physical and institutional priorities. The
audits built on existing local development plans, and involved
the participation of the local government and communities,
ensuring ownership of the process and continuity of the approach. In addition, in a context
where the government is keen to keep both central and local government departments lean
with a minimum of permanent staff, the use of a delegated contract management agency for
civil works (Association d’exécution des travaux d’intéret public, or ASSETIP) was introduced to
deliver timely and quality investments.

Results

Approximately 535,580 people in Kigali and Huye, and 70,258 people in Musanze are
benefitting from the following improvements completed by project closing in December 2009:

      Construction of 22.6 kilometers of asphalt and stone paved roads in Kigali and Huye
      ensuring access in slums and poor neighborhoods, better circulation, and inter-
      connection of districts (leading to a reduction in transport costs by up to 60 percent, and
      reduction in prices of staple foods by 18 percent in neighborhoods surveyed due to
      improved accessibility of vendors).

      Improved social infrastructure including the construction of: (a) three primary schools
      (two in Kigali and one in Musanze), resulting in a decrease in the number of children
      per class from 60 to 46, and an increase in the pass rate from 28 to 93 percent in the
      schools surveyed; (b) a health care center in Musanze, resulting in a tenfold increase in
      family planning consultations, an increase in assisted births in health care units from
      466 in 2008 to 5,130 in 2009, and a reduction by 50 percent in the number of non-
      assisted home births; and (c) a youth center in a poor neighborhood benefitting 500
      youths on a daily basis.

      Improved economic infrastructure through the construction in Kigali of the Kimironko and
      Kicukiro bus terminals, which have facilitated inter-district movement within the city and
      improved linkages with the neighboring areas. The Kimironko terminal is currently
      generating about US$40,000 in revenue per year.

Technical assistance in the hands-on use of tools such as City Contracts, urban audits, street
addressing, and financial ratios (revenues vs. investments and maintenance), have enabled
improved city management:

      Financial resources have increased 30 percent on average.

      By 2009, the percent of municipal budgets allocated to infrastructure and facilities
      maintenance had increased to 15-27 percent, from a baseline in 2006 of 2.5 percent in
      Kigali City, 2 percent in Huye district and 7 percent in Musanze district.



Bank Contribution

Out of a total project cost of US$ 30 million, IDA provided a US$20.7 million grant in 2006.

Partners

The project was designed jointly and co-funded by IDA (US$20.7 million), government of
Rwanda (US$2.64 million) and the Nordic Development Fund or NDF (US$7.13 million). The
NDF credit was earmarked for storm water drainage and erosion control improvements. In
addition, Cities Alliance funded about US$243,000 for the Financial Management
Modernization and Development Strategy for Kigali and its districts.

Voices
     We had no bus station here. Yet, our district is busy and
   growing. Our people had to walk quite long distances to take
   buses to town where those who are travelling upcountry would
   connect with upcountry buses. So, this is a great achievement.
                                                           — Mayor of Kicukiro


Toward the Future

An action plan was developed prior to the closing of the project to transfer capacities and
institutionalize the use of project tools by the involved parties. The project acted as a catalyst,
bringing together multiple actors in the sector and facilitating the establishment, by the Ministry
of Infrastructure (MININFRA), of the Rwanda Urban and Housing Authority (RHA) as a single
organizational unit to implement the government’s policies in the sector. Most of the urban
management tools developed under the project have been mainstreamed into national
programs by MININFRA (to be implemented by RHA) and by districts. These include urban
audits and City Contracts, street addressing, and slum upgrading. Financial management tools
have been transferred to the Ministry of Local Administration. Anticipated support from other
donors for road investments and urban management in Kigali will carry forward some elements
of the urban development strategy, while some of the policy reform elements will be addressed
in the Poverty Reduction Support Grant series supported by IDA.
