Page  1
ONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7588-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Fiscal Management and Competitiveness  
Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 1, 2008 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7588-PE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated December 1, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF PERU 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of
 
US$370,000,000 (three hundred and 
seventy million Dollars), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). The Borrower may withdraw the equivalent of 
$70,000,000 on or after the Effective Date and keep the remaining $300,000,000 
of the Loan as a contingency for future withdrawals. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. In the event that the Borrower elects not to 
capitalize the Front-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later 
than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
Page  3
2
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
 
principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Bank and the Borrower may at any time agree on repayment 
provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
for the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance at the time, provided that: (i) the 
average maturity of each Withdrawal of an amount of such Unwithdrawn 
Loan Balance does not exceed 18 years from the Maturity Fixing Date 
and the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from 
the Maturity Fixing Date (or such other average maturity and/or final 
maturity as may be generally applicable to loans made by the Bank to the 
Borrower at the time of such agreement); and (ii) such repayment 
provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior to 
the Withdrawal Date of any such Withdrawal. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of 
the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to 
a
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
Page  4
3
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
2.09. 
The Borrower’s Minister of Economy and Finance or the Borrower’s Director of 
Public Indebtedness, and any person whom he or she shall designate in writing is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any 
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article II of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall: 
(i) regularly monitor the Borrower’s 
macroeconomic policy framework and the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program; and (ii) from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on these matters and the actions specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation 
that has arisen that has or would have the effect of materially: (i) 
impairing the Borrower’s ability to maintain an appropriate 
macroeconomic policy framework; or (ii) reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist on the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
Page  5
4
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section 
I
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion 
of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the 
Program. 
 
ARTICLE V
 —
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on February 5, 2010. 
 
ARTICLE VI
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, t
he
Borrower’s 
Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance, provided that the 
Borrower’s Director of Public Indebtedness may, by him or herself, represent the 
Borrower to sign amendments to this Agreement which are considered of an 
administrative and non-financial nature.  The signing by such Director of an 
amendment shall constitute a representation by the Borrower that any such 
amendment is considered to be administrative and non-financial in nature. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Jr. Junín 319 
Lima, Perú 
 
Facsimile:   
(511) 626-9921 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
Page  6
5
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/ Pedro Sanchez Gamarra 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
A. 
The Borrower has taken significant steps to strengthen sustainability and 
transparency of fiscal policy by having: (i) fully complied with fiscal rules, as 
evidenced by the declaration of compliance with fiscal responsibility published in 
the Ministry of Economy’s website (
www.mef.gob.pe/DGAES
), on May 29, 
2008; and (ii) issued Legislative Decree No. 1012 of May 13, 2008 approving the 
framework law for the treatment, limits and registering of firm and contingent 
operations associated with private and public partnerships. 
 
B. 
The Borrower has taken measures for improving the efficiency and neutrality of 
the tax system by issuing Legislative Decrees No. 971 of December 22, 2006, 
Nos. 975, 976, 977 and 978 of March 14, 2007, providing the legal framework 
for the implementation of: (i) a gradual elimination of regional and sectoral 
exemptions; (ii) a requirement of a cost-benefit analysis for maintaining current 
tax exemptions and granting new ones; and (iii) a reduction of the financial 
transactions tax rate to 0.07% starting in 2008, and reducing to 0.05% starting in 
2010. 
 
C. 
The Borrower has taken measures to strengthen its budgetary management by: (i) 
issuing a Supreme Decree No. 082-2007-EF of June 28, 2007, and the 
Directorate Resolution No. 013-2008-EF/77.15 of April 30, 2008, regulating the 
incorporation, in the treasury single account at the 
Banco de la Nación
,
of all 
“ear-marked resources”; and (ii) issuing Supreme Decree No. 068-2008-EF of 
May 24, 2008 approving a new functional budgetary classification. 
 
D. 
The Borrower has taken significant steps to gradually implement the result-based 
budget management system referred to in Law 28927 (2007 budget law) of 
December 12, 2006, Law 29142 (2008 budget law) of December 10, 2007 and 
Directorate Resolution No. 027-2007-EF/76.01 of July 2, 2007, aimed at the 
improvement, control and impact of public spending at a national, sub-national 
and sectoral levels, including the introduction of programmatic formulation for 
the budget, as well as five priority programs with a results framework. 
 
E. 
The Borrower has taken measures to make public sector processes more 
transparent, accessible and agile, by: (i) integrating the Borrower’s procurement 
electronic system (SEACE) with the Borrower’s integrated financial management 
system (SIAF) at the process level, as evidenced by Memorandum No. 443-2008-
EF/42.01 from the MEF’s General Office of Statistics and Informatics; (ii) 
Page  8
7
issuing new regulations for the Law on Electronic Signatures (
Ley de Firmas y 
Certificados Digitales
 No. 27269), through Supreme Decree No. 004-2007-PCM 
of January 12, 2007.
 
F. 
The Borrower has continued to carry out significant efforts to expand and deepen 
international trade by: (i) completing the negotiations for a free trade agreement 
with Canada, as evidenced by the minutes of negotiations dated January 28, 
2008; (ii) issuing Supreme Decrees Nos. 091-2007-EF of July 9, 2007, 105-2007-
EF of July 19, 2007, 158-2007-EF of October 13, 2007, 163-2007-EF of October 
27, 2007, and 038-2008-EF of March 17, 2008, to reduce the average tariff rate 
to 5% and the tariff dispersion to 5.9%; and (iii) implementing measures to 
facilitate external trade through the regulation of the one-stop-shop for foreign 
trade (
Ventanilla Unica de Comercio Exterior
), evidenced by the issuance of 
Supreme Decree No. 010-2007-MINCETUR, and the issuance of regulations for 
the Law on Foreign Trade Facilitation through Supreme Decree No. 022-2008-
EF, with the objective of establishing uniform procedures for authorization and 
control of imports and exports subject to non-tariff measures.
 
G. 
The Borrower has expanded the business licensing and construction permit 
simplification program (TRAMIFACIL Program) to municipalities in the 
following five regions: 
Puno, Cajamarca and Lima
,
as evidenced by the findings 
set forth in the report published by the International Finance Corporation in 
December 2007.
 
H. 
The Borrower has taken the necessary steps to promote sustainable financial 
deepening of micro and consumer credit by issuing, through its superintendence 
of banks and insurance, Resolutions SBS No. 1237-2006 of September 22, 2006, 
No. 1122-2006 of August 29, 2006, and No. 215-2007 of February 27, 2007 
respectively, approving rules for: (i) 
retail debtor’s over indebtedness risk 
management; (ii) expansion of the operations of non-banking financial 
institutions; and (iii) provision of micro-insurance (more info on this last one).
 
I. 
The Borrower, through its stock and business supervisory commission 
(CONASEV), has taken measures to deepen financial instruments and services 
by approving Resolution CONASEV No. 087-2007-EF/94.01.1 of November 16, 
2007, allowing the use of assets in the securitization process. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts
.
The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan from the Loan account in support of the Program in various 
Page  9
8
drawdowns of a single tranche. The Borrower may withdraw the equivalent of 
$70,000,000 on or after the Effective Date and keep the remaining $300,000,000 
of the Loan as a contingency for future withdrawals, all withdrawals subject to 
the conditions set forth in paragraph D below. The categories of items that may 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), and the allocation of 
the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations
Amount of the Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars
)
Single Tranche 
 
370,000,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
370,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  No withdrawal shall be made from
 the Loan 
 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.  
If at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank 
of a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, in the course of its 
monitoring referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Bank determines 
that a review of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework or of its 
progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to 
the Borrower to that effect.  Upon the giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall 
be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless and until the Bank has 
notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange of views as described 
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with: (1) the progress achieved by 
the Borrower in carrying out the Program; and (2) the appropriateness of the 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Page  10
9
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
G. Closing 
Date. 
 
The Closing Date is August 5, 2011.  The Bank may, by notice to 
the Borrower, extend said Closing Date up to three more years, provided that the 
overall Program continues to be implemented in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank and macroeconomic policies are adequate. 
Page  11
10
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
March 15, 2022 
10% 
September 15, 2022 
10% 
March 15, 2023 
12.70% 
September 15, 2023 
12.70% 
March 15, 2028 
16.21% 
September 15, 2028 
16.21% 
March 15, 2029 
11.35% 
September 15, 2029 
10.83% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
Page  12
11
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  13
12
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked 
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  14
13
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix.  
 
3. “MEF” 
means 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance. 
 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve fiscal management and competitiveness reforms in the Borrower’s 
economy, so as to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty 
and set forth or referred to in the letter dated May 9, 2008, from the Borrower to 
the Bank declaring the Borrower’s continuous commitment to the execution of 
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program 
during its execution. 
 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  15
14
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
Page  16
15
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for 
the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; provided, that: (a) for purposes of 
determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is 
applicable to an  amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which 
interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s 
fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar 
day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of 
denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes of fixing the Variable 
Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed 
spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. 
time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all 
or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance pursuant to Section 
4.04 (a), the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the 
manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout 
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”   
 
(e) 
The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: 
(1) the Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) 
LIBOR, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund 
loans that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency, 
“Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.  
 
(f) 
A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 
 
“Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01. 
Page  17
16
 
(g) 
A
new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 
 
“Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the 
Bank pays the Withdrawal. 
 
