Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17272
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2250-CE)
January 7,1998
Finance and Private Sector Development Division
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee (annual average)
Rs. Per US $1.00                   US$ Per Rs. 1.00
1990          40.063                      0.0249
1991          41.372                      0.0241
1992          43.830                      0.0228
1993          48.322                      0.0207
1994          49.415                      0.0202
1995           51.252                     0.0195
1996           55.271                     0.0181
1997 (Jan-Aug) 58.371                     0.0171
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            -      Asian Development Bank
BOC            -      Bank of Ceylon
CBSL           -      Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CEA            -      Central Environmental Authority
CIBSL                 Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka
CISIR          -      Ceylon Institute of Scientific & Industrial Research
CBOC                  Commercial Bank of Ceylon
DFIs           -      Development Finance Institutions
DFCC           -      Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
EDB            -      Export Development Board
GOSL           -      Govemment of Sri Lanka
HNB                   Hatton National Bank
IDA                   International Development Association
IPS            -      Industrial Policy Statement
NDB            -      National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
PB             -      Peoples Bank
PCIs           -      Participating Credit Institutions
PFDP           -      Private Finance Development Project
RRDBs                 Regional Rural Development Banks
SCBs                  State Commercial Banks
SLSI           -      Sri Lanka Standardization Institute
SMIs           -      Small and Medium Industries
TA                    Technical Assistance
TAF            -      Technical Assistance Fund
FISCAL YEARS
GOSL, Commercial Banks                               = January 1 to December 31
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC)     = April 1 to March 31
National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB)         = January I to December 31
Vice President:                  Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director - Sri Lanka:    Mr. Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Manager:                  Ms. Marilou Uy
Task Manager/Sr. Operations Analyst: Ms. Shideh Hadian



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Imolementation Comrletion Report (Credit 2250-CE)
Table of Contents
Pase No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................                                        i
PART I: PROJECT MIPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..........................................             1
B. Achievement of Objectives ..............................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................7
D. Project Sustainability ..8.........................8
E. IDA's Performance ............................9
F. Borrower's Performance ............................ 0
G. Assessment of Outcome ...1........................ 1
H. Follow-Up/Future Operations ............................11
I. Main Lessons Learned ............................11
STATISTICAL TABLES
1. Summary of Assessments ............................                                      13
2. Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................                                    14
3. Project Timetable ............................                                           15
4. Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                               15
5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                                16
6. Key Indicators for Project Operation        ..17
7. Studies Included in Project           ..17
8 (A & B). Project Cost and Project Financing          .        .        .18
9. Economic Costs and Benefits             ..18
10. Status of Legal Covenants           ..19
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements      ..20
12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs          ..20
13. Bank Resources: Mssions             ..21
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
I.   Total Subloan Approvals by PCIs - IDA and ADB Credit Lines .22
II.   Annual Subloan Approvals by PCIs - IDA Credit Line .23
IU.  Breakdown of Approved Subloans by Size - IDA and ADB Credit Lines .24
IV.  Approved Subloans for New and Expansion Projects - IDA and ADB Credit Lines .24
V. Employment Generation - IDA and ADB Credit Lines .24
VI.  Sectoral Distribution of Approved Subloans - IDA and ADB Credit Lines .25
VII. Geographical Distribution of Approved Subloans - IDA and ADB Credit Lines .26
VIII. PCIs' Loan Collection and Profitability Performance.                                  27
IX   Allocation and Utilization of Technical Assistance Component .28
X    Allocation and Utilization of Environmental Component .29
XI. Composition of Sectoral Growth to the Economy .30
APPENDIXES
A. Implementation Assessment of Environmental Component .31
B. Aide Memoire of July 1997 ICR Mission .36
C. Borrower's Contribution to ICR .43
Map of Sri Lanka
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I
I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI-IV1
(CREDIT 2250-CE)
Preface'
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Small and Medium
Industries Project (Credit 2250-CE) in the amount of SDR 33.3 million (US$ 45 million
equivalent). Of this amount, SDR 3.7 million (US$ 5 million equivalent) was the technical
assistance component. The Credit was approved by IDA Board on May 28, 1991 and became
effective on September 30, 1991. The original project closing (October 31, 1996) was extended
for eight months to June 30, 1997 due to slow implementation of the credit component. Final
disbursements took place on Sepiember 1 1,1997 at which time a balance of SDR 546,493.14
(about 1.6 percent of the original credit amount) was canceled. The Asian Development Bank
cofinanced the project by providing a total of US$ 30 million for subprojectfinancing and an
additional US$ 350,000 for technical assistance.
2.     The ICR was prepared by Shideh Hadian, Finance and Private Sector Development Unit of
South Asia Region and reviewed by Ms. Marilou Uy (Sector Manager). Assistance was provided
by Ms. Kumi Kitamori, Environmental Unit of South Asia Region for the preparation of the
environmental component (presented in Appendix A and Annex X). The Borrower contribution
included as Appendix C and was prepared by the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (the
Apex for the project) on behalf of the Government.
3 .    Preparation of this ICR began during the IDA's final supervision/completion mission in
July 1997. It is based on Staff Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement, Supervision Reports and other
material in the project file as well as discussions with the participating institutions in the project.
The National Development Bank also contributed to the preparation of this ICR by providing the
data on different components of the project.



I



FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI-IV)
(CREDIT 2250-CE)
SRI LANKA
Evaluation Summary1
1.    Introduction - Six financial/industrial intermediation projects, totaling US$ 152.8 million, were
approved by IDA for the development of small, medium, and large scale industries in Sri Lanka during the
11 years preceding this project. An adjustment credit of US$ 120 million to support the reform program to
modernize/privatize public manufacturing enterprises was also approved one year before the SMI-IV
project (Table 2).
2.    Proiect Obiectives - SMI-IV project had two main components: (i) a credit component of US$ 40
million for providing credit to the SMI sector; and (ii) a technical assistance (TA) component of US$ 5
million for institutional and policy development and subproject implementation support. Asian
Development Bank (ADB) co-financed the project by providing US$ 30 million for subproject financing
and US$ 350,000 TA grant for related reform programs. Specifically, the project objectives were to:
* Deepen IDA's Dialogue with Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) on issues affecting the financial sector
efficiency in particular to: (a) continue support for strengthening of the financial institutions'
operations; and (b) improve implementation of debt recovery policies and procedures including support
for the Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka (this was part of ADBs TA program).
* Provide support to GOSL to: (a) improve Customs and Excise policies/procedures; (b) reorient export
development policies/procedures; (c) remove constraints to establish new enterprises and formulate
appropriate SMI development policies and programs (part of ADB funded programs); and (d) assist the
Central Environmental Authority (CEA) and Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) 2 to introduce sub-
sectoral industry environmental impact assessment guidelines in the investment approval process.
* Provide credit, through the banking system, for long-term capital investment in eligible productive
enterprises.
3.    The SMI-IV objectives were in line with the Bank's assistance strategy in Sri Lanka and were
important and timely for the Government's priority reform programs. GOSL gave high priority to
industrial development (in particular the SMI sector) in its Industrial Policy Statement of 1989 and
requested IDA to advance the fourth SMI line of credit (originally planned for Fiscal Year 94). The size of
SMI-IV credit line was geared to the term lending capacity of PCIs and estimated SMIs' demand for long-
term investment funds. The risks identified at the time of Appraisal (political instability and possible
ineffectiveness of institutions in administrating/implementing the credit component) did not materialize and
the project was implemented without any major problem (paras. 2, 3, & 4).
4.    Implementation ExDerience and Results of the Credit Comnonent - The credit component was
implemented highly satisfactorily and achieved its development objectives. It was fully committed as of
March 31, 1996 (against the original deadline of September 30, 1995). The delay in the utilization of the
credit component was due to ineligibility of the two State-Owned Commercial Banks (SCBs), BOC and
PB, to participate in the project one year after effectiveness. The 1991 international financial audits of the
1 Provides cross-references to paragraphs from Part I which provide more details.
2 See footnote number 1 in Part I (page 1).



i.
SCBs revealed that these banks had inadequate capital base and could not meet the participation criteria
under SMI-IV. This resulted in a substantial reduction of the commitment level in the period 1992-94.
Other PCIs could not immediately fill the gap because of their smaller branch network and limited term
lending capacity. Although, in later years, the eligible PCIs increased their lending activities, the credit
component could not be fully committed on time. The international-financial audits of the two SCBs for
1993-1994 indicated that the state banks met the participation criteria under SMI-IV; hence, they were
reinstated as PCIs by both IDA and ADB during the course of 1995. Per request of the Government
(which was elected in late 1994 and continued its strong support for SMI sector) and in view of satisfactory
utilization of credit component by the private banks and DFCC, the SCBs' efforts to once again become
eligible to participate in the project, and the importance of SMI sector in Sri Lanka's economy, IDA
extended the commitment deadline by six months to March 31, 1996 and the project closing by eight
months to June 30, 1997 (paras. 6 & 22).
5.    The IDA's SMI projects made significant contributions to integrating the SMI sector with the
economy, generating large number of employment, and increasing production and exports in particular of
non-traditional products (para. 7; also recent OED study on World Bank Support for Small and Medium
Industries in Sri Lanka: An Impact Evaluation; June 1997). The credit funds (IDA + ADB) provided loans
to about 6,000 small and medium industrial/services units and created aboi.t 43,000 jobs, with incremental
fixed investment per job of about US$ 3,300. The comparable figures estimated at the Appraisal were
25,000 jobs and US$ 6,200 per job investment. The projects financed under SMI-IV were mostly in the
labor intensive subsectors (textiles, food processing, garments, construction materials) with the average
employment per job of about 7. In addition, with the inadequate technology involved, the employment
number increased. The subprojects were mainly concentrated in Western and North Westem Provinces
because of continuing ethnic disturbances in the Eastern and Northern Provinces (para. 8). Annexes I -
VIII provide details of the utilization of the credit component. The PCIs greatly benefited from the project
and are now committed to support this vital sector. The perfomiance of PCIs with respect to maintaining
the eligibility criteria (profitability and loan recovery rate) was satisfactory (paras. 7 and 21). The Central
Bank Credit Guarantee Scheme was not useful for many of the PCIs. The premium paid by PCIs was, in
most cases, more than the expected benefits. The PCIs believe that this guarantee scheme should hence be
made optional (para. 9). The market determined interest rate charged on the subloans was based on the
Average Weighted Deposit Rate (para. 8).
6.    Imnlementation Experience and Results of the TA component - Overall, TA component was
implemented satisfactorily and achieved, for the most parts, its objectives. TA component was designed to
support: (i) institutional development of PCIs; (ii) policy development in the areas of trade, non-bank
financial sector (specifically insurance industry), and environment; and (iii) the SMIs' entrepreneurs in
their subproject implementation (paras. 10 & 11). Institutional Development component aimed at
assisting the PCIs/NDB build their capacity in project finance as well as supporting the SCBs in
developing their operations and preparing them for possible privatization. The PCIs upgrading and staff
training program was highly satisfactory and achieved its objectives (para. 12). The consultancies for
operational review and strengthening the two SCBs' operations, which started under SMI-IlI in 1988 and
continued under IDP-II & III projects, were completed in 1992 under SMI-IV. The studies/consultancies
made a series of recommendation on many aspects of the banks' operations (credit policy, Managemnent
Information System, organization structure, technology, employment policy, etc.) and were the SCBs' first
exposure to techniques used in other countries. The SCBs implemented part of the reconmuendations and
improved their operations in some areas., however, the weaknesses remained and restructuring of the SCBs
has not yet been achieved (para. 13).



iii
7.    The result of TA programs for the Policy Development was mixed and varied by implementing
institutions and projects. Modemization of Department of Customs and Excise (DCE) declaration
procedures was implemented satisfactorily and had a high impact on upgrading the institution's capacity
and increasing revenue collection (Paras. 15 & 16). Allocation of TA fund for institutional upgrading of
Export Development Board (EDB) was not, however, utilized due to lack of commitment of management
to change and constraints by political environment (para. 14). Allocation of TA for strengthening the
insurance industry was not utilized either. However, broader issues with respect to the non-bank financial
sector (insurance industries and other contractual savings institutions) were further addressed by IDA's
Private Finance Development Project which was prepared in 1992 (para. 17). The Credit Information
Bureau of Sri Lanka (CIBSL) was established in 1990 under the guidance of IDA and ADB. ADB
further provided technical and financial assistance under its credit line to strengthen the advisory and
management capability of the .CIBSL and appointed a short term consultant to assess the institution's
potential for expanding credit information and recommending a medium-term operational policies/strategies
and business development (para. 19). The SMI-IV project coincided with the first intervention ever made
by GOSL on environmental protection and management in the country. The project played a catalyst
and pioneering role in strengthening environmental regulatory framework capacity of GOSL. TA was
provided for a number of studies, consultancies, training and hardware for laboratory facilities and in
general, the result and impact of TA for environmental management was satisfactory (para. 18, Appendix
A, and Annex X).
8.    The TechnicalAssistance Fund (TAF) - A partial (50/50) grant of US$ 500,000 was allocated
for capacity building of the SMI entrepreneurs in implementing their respective subprojects. This
component was implemented highly satisfactorily and benefited over 200 small and medium industrial and
services units. SMIs found this scheme very attractive and useful for their business and products
improvement. Due to their strong demand, the allocation was increased by an additional US$ 50,000 in
1996 (para. 20).
9.    Proiect cost. Financins, and Time Schedules - The project was implemented satisfactorily
without any major problem. Project cost was estimated at US$ 145 million by the Appraisal and the actual
cost was about US$ 140 million (Tables 8A & 8B). SMI-IV was prepared, signed, and became effective
as originally planned. Due to slow implementation of the credit component, the project was closed eight
months later than the original closing date which was October 31, 1996 (para. 6).
10.   Proiect Sustainabilitv - The benefits and impacts of the SMI-IV project with respect to both credit
and TA components would most likely be sustained. The commitment of the Government (both the
previous Government and the one elected in late 1994) to develop the private industrial sector, in particular
the SMI sector, suggest that the benefits of the project with respect to SMI financing will be sustained. In
its 1994 industrialization strategy statement and its subsequent policy reform programs, the Government
has given high priority and special attention to the development of SMI sector through rural/regional
industrialization and increasing industries' access to marketing and technical advisory facilities as well as
short/long term investment credits.(para. 23). The internal efficiency and strong financial performance of
the participating private commercial banks and DFCC and their increased lending activities during the life
of the project (in particular after SCBs declared ineligible in 1992) were instrumental to the
successful/smooth implementation of the credit component and a key factor for project sustainability in
future. The private domestic banks have continued to further develop their institutions' capacity and
project lending operations. Most PCIs are now committed to support the SMI sector and have continued
lending to SMIs from their own resources after the closing of SMI-IV project (para. 24).



iv
11.   With the GOSL's attention to this sector and availability of funds from other sources (donors'
funds, NDB commercial loans) which provide various forms of investment financing (medium/long-term -
leasing/loans), the SMI firms will continue to benefit from having access to investment credits (para. 25).
The impacts/benefits of the TA component in the areas of PCIs' institution building and staff training will
also be sustained, as these institutions have realized the value/benefits of trained and qualified staff. The
impact and benefits of the TA for Department of Customs is likely to be sustained, as the institution has
continued further modernization of the computer system and is planning to restructure/reform the
organization. The TAF scheme gave SMIs' entrepreneurs the opportunity to further upgrade their
business/products. SMIs who benefited from the TAF under SMI-IV were willing to invest their own funds
for improving their business activities and have realized the value of training and new/advanced production
techniques (through consulting services) and would likely continue their business improvement (para. 26).
12.   IDA and Borrower Performance - The performance of IDA was satisfactory throughout the
project cycle for the preparation, appraisal, and supervision (paras. 27, 28, & 29). SMI-IV complemented
other IDA's financial/industrial sector operations and its preparation was timely and in line with the
GOSL's comprehensive development programs. The project objectives were generally realistic. The
Appraisal, however, overestimated the ability and commitment of some institutions in implementing the TA
programs in particular considering their track record under previous IDA projects (e.g., TA for EDB and
SCBs).
13.   The project administration and monitoring by NDB (the apex) was satisfactory. The PCIs
performance in the utilization of the credit component and increasing their lending activities during 1992-
94, when the SCBs were ineligible to participate, was very good and contributed to the timely and
successful project completion. The PCIs complied with the participation criteria and it was only in the last
year of the project life when their loan collection was slightly affected by the external factors such as
escalating civil disturbances and severe power cuts in the Island (paras. 21 & 30). In light of this situation,
the Government took some measures and requested the banks and DFIs to provide some sort of relief to
affected industrial and services units. As the situation started to improve in 1997, the industrial activities
have gone back on track and repayments of the financed subloan have improved. While NDB's data base
on the credit component includes basic information (commitment, disbursement, geographical/sectoral
distribution of subloans) on the financed subprojects, it lacks data on SMI subprojects with respect to
output and profitability and does not have the capacity for a systematic follow-up and monitoring of
financed subprojects. In light of the continued supports for SMIs and their importance in the economic
development and exports, it is crucial to evaluate the economic and social benefits/impacts of the SMI
projects in a more methodical and systematic way.
14.   Government closely coordinated with IDA in the preparation and appraisal of the project and was
cooperative with the IDA's supervision missions during the project implementation. GOSL's commitment
to improve the DCE administration is commendable, while its performance in implementing the TA in two
areas was not satisfactory mainly due to political constraints (in the case of restructuring the two SCBs)
and lack of commitment and incentives for change (in the case of EDB). The submission of audited
financial reports of the public PCIs (two SCBs and the three RRDBs) were continuously delayed while
those of the private commercial banks and the DFIs were always timely. Overall, the performances of the
borrower and implementing agencies were satisfactory, considering continued civil disturbances and some
economic problems (paras. 30, 31, & 32).
15.   Future/Follow-ug Overations. Findines, and Lessons Learned - To further support the GOSL
in its efforts to strengthen the financial sector efficiency and develop industrial activities, IDA Board
approved the Private Finance Development Project (PFDP) for US$ 60 million in April 1993. The



v
objectives of PFDP were to: (i) improve the efficiency of financial intermediation; (ii) assist in domestic
resource mobilization for long-term investment; (iii) provide investment finance to industries; and (iv) help
deepen the financial system. This project is under implementation and is scheduled to close in June 1999.
In March 1997, IDA initiated a review of the financial sector for the preparation of Financial Sector
Reform project, scheduled for preparation and Board approval in year 2000. In addition, a number of
credit lines for project lending to micro, small and medium industrial and services sectors are provided to
Sri Lanka by other donors (paras. 34 & 35).
16.    SMI-IV implementation progress was smooth and satisfactory and its development objectives, for
the most parts, were achieved. The main lessons Learned from the SMI-IV, with implications for other
IDA-financed projects, are summarized below (para. 36):
I.   Financial viability and internal efficiency of the participating financial institutions, by and large, is
the most important factor in the satisfactory implementation of the intermediation operations and
sustainability of the project.
II.   An effective and strong Apex institution is important and instrumental for successful project
implementation.
III.  Government direct involvement in and thorough knowledge of all aspects of the project is crucial for
better coordination among stakeholders.
IV.  With increasing support for the SMI sector and its importance in economic development of the
country, it would be beneficial to invest in upgrading the database of and monitoring system for the
SMI sector.
V.   The design of and need for Central Bank Credit Guarantee Scheme should be examined by the
Government. The experience of SMI-IV suggests that this scheme should, at least, be optional.
VI.  The TA program and its goals/objectives should be realistic and achievable. The capacity of
implementing agency and Government's commitment and willingness to change should be genuine.
The implementation experience of TA programs for the two SCBs and the EDB support this
argument.
VII. Implementation of TAF scheme under this project and previous IDA projects was satisfactory and
suggests that direct assistance to the private sector can have higher pay-off than providing indirect
assistance through the publicly funded research, advisory, and technology agencies (such as
Industrial Development Board) which are established to provide TA services to the
industrial/services units. The implementation experience of TA to these public agencies, under
several IDA intermediation operations, proved to be ineffective.
VIII. The experience of severe power cuts and its impacts on the economy, calls for an urgent need to
develop the country's infrastructures. Sri Lanka's economy is heavily dependent on hydro power
and therefore is vulnerable to natural hazards such as drought. In addition, concentration of
industries in Colombo area and few Western provinces is partly due to inadequate infrastructure in
the country.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI-IV)
(CREDIT 2250-CE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Obiectives
1.    Project Objectives - The Fourth Small and Medium Industries Project (SMI-IV) was designed to
complement and expand on the earlier industrial and financial sector operations (some of which were on-
going at that time). The main objectives of the project were:
V   To deepen IDA's Dialogue with Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) on issues affecting the financial
sector efficiency in particular to: (a) continue support for institutional upgrading of Development
Finance Institutions (DFIs), the commercial banks, and Regional Rural Development Banks (RRDBs);
and (b) improve implementation of debt recovery policies and procedures including support for the
Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka which was established at that time (this program was part of
the Asian Development Bank's (ADB) program; see paras. 2 & 5).
*   To provide support to GOSL to: (a) improve Customs and Excise policies and procedures; (b) reorient
export development policies and procedures; (c) remove bureaucratic constraints to establish new
enterprises and formulate appropriate SMI development policies and programs (this program was also
part of ADB funded programs); and (d) assist the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) and
Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) 1 to introduce sub-sectoral industry environmental impact
assessment guidelines in the investment approval process.
*   To provide credit, through the banking system, for long-term capital investment in eligible productive
enterprises.
2.    Evaluation of Objectives - The SMI-IV objectives were in line with the Bank's assistance strategy
in Sri Lanka and were important and timely for the Government's priority reform programs. In 1989, the
elected Government initiated an adjustment program aimed at stabilizing the economy, reducing
unemployment level, and focusing on measures to reduce the size of the public sector and further
development of the private sector. The Government's Industrial Policy Statement (IPS) of 1989 gave high
priority to industrial development (in particular the SMI sector) as a vehicle for job creation and export-led
industrialization. The GOSL's policies in the areas of trade reform, export promotion, industrial
development, financial sector reform, and private sector development through strengthening
institutional/legal/regulatory framework have been supported by IDA, ADB, and IMF under several
investment credits and technical assistance programs since 1977 (Table 2). With an absence of long term
investment funding in the financial sector, rapid utilization of previous industrial credit lines, and strong
demand for long-term investment fund by the SMI sector, GOSL requested IDA for the fourth SMI credit
I The PCIs under the project were Bank of Ceylon (BOC); Peoples' Bank (PB); Commercial Bank of Ceylon
(CBOC); Hatton National Bank (HNB); Sampath Bank; Seylan Bank; Regional Rural Development Banks
(RRDBs) of Kandy, Kurunegala, Kegalle; and Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC).



2
line. SMI-IV which was originally planned for Fiscal Year 94 was advanced, at the request of GOSL, to
FY92 in order to link it with the two IDA adjustment operations which were being prepared during the
course of 1990 2, These two adjustrnent credits called for significant cuts in government expenditures
through privatization of public manufacturing industries and retrenchment of public sector employees
during FY91-93. Therefore, SMI-IV could provide technical and term credit support for those affected
employees who wanted to utilize their retrenchment gratuities to establish small scale industrial or service
operations.
3.    The Financial Institutions Review by IDA in 1990 revealed some of the deficiencies in the financial
sector (distorted interest rate structure, inadequate capital market for equity funding, institutional
weaknesses, inappropriate financial accounting policies, and poor credit discipline). The GOSL envisioned
that the health of financial system is the key to industrial financing and country's development program and
requested assistance from IDA and ADB to reform the financial sector. However, because the system did
not have the capacity to cope with such a comprehensive program in the areas mentioned above, the
Government proposed a phased implementation plan, taking up a number of issues under ADB's financial
sector program loan (approved in late 1990), addressing some issues under the IDA and ADB SMI
operations, and taking actions on broader issues affecting the financial sector under the IDA's Banking
Sector Reform Project planned, at the time, for 1992 (see Part H - follow-up operations).
4.    The size of SMI-IV credit line was geared to the term lending capacity of PCIs and their subproject
pipeline as well as estimated SMIs' demand for long-term investment funds. The FY91-93 demand for
investment funding was estimated at US$ 200 million, of which about 50 percent was to be provided by the
sponsors and PCIs. The balance of about US$ 100 million was to be mobilized from the multilateral
institutions. A total of US$ 70 million was provided by IDA and ADB for SMI subproject financing.
Political instability in the country and effective operations of the project by the National Development Bank
(NDB, the Apex for the project) were identified as the major risks to the implementation of lending
component. With its experience as the Apex under previous SMI credit lines, NDB managed the project
satisfactorily. In addition, prevailing ethnic disturbances did not affect project implementation as much as
it was expected at the time of project appraisal.
B. Achievement of Objectives
5.    SMI-IV project of SDR 33.3 million had two components: (i) a credit component of SDR 29.6
million (US$ 40 million equivalent) for providing term loans to the SMI sector; and (ii) a technical
assistance (TA) component of SDR 3.7 million (US$ 5 million equivalent) for institutional and policy
development and subproject implementation support. ADB provided US$ 30 million for subproject
financing through a parallel line of credit (Second Development Finance Loan) with the same terms and
conditions as those of IDA's and an additional US$ 350,000 TA grant for related reform programs. The
actual utilization of the IDA credit line was SDR 32.75 million (about 98.4 percent); the undisbursed
balance was canceled as of September 11, 97 when the final disbursement was made. The credit account
was closed on October 31, 1997.
6.    Implementation of the Credit Component - The credit component was implemented highly
satisfactorily and achieved its development objectives. It was fully committed as of March 31, 1996
(against the original deadline of September 30, 1995). The delay in the utilization of the credit component
was mainly because the two State-Owned Commercial Banks (SCBs), BOC and PB, found ineligible to
2 Economic Restructuring Credit (ERC, approved in May 1990) and Public Manufacturing Enterprises
Adjustment Credit (PMEAC, approved in November 1990).



3
participate in the project one year after effectiveness (details in Para. 22). In the first year of the project
operations, BOC and PB accounted for about 58 percent by amount and 70 percent by number of subloan
approvals (Annex II) and their ineligibility to participate in the project substantially reduced the
commitnent level in the period 1992-94. Other PCIs could not immediately fill the gap because of their
smaller branch network and limited term lending capacity. However, in later years, the eligible PCIs
increased their lending activities through aggressive marketing and by strengthening their SMI project
finance unit. While the SCBs suspension from participation delayed the project closing, it had a positive
impact on other PCIs' lending operations. The SCBs were reinstated as PCIs by both IDA and ADB
during 1995 when they met the participation criteria under SMI-IV. In July 1995, when over US$ 5
million of the credit component was still uncommitted, the Government (which was elected in late 1994 and
continued its strong support for SMI sector) requested IDA to extend the commitment deadline and the
project closing date for one year. In view of satisfactory utilization of credit component by the private
banks and DFCC, eligibility of the SCBs as PCIs in 1995, the importance of SMI sector in Sri Lanka's
economy, and industries great need for investment funds, IDA responded favorably and established March
31, 1996 for commitment deadline (a six months extension) and June 30, 1997 for the project closing date
(an eight months extension).
7.    IDA's SMI scheme was well known and very popular in Sri Lanka. The SMI projects made
significant contributions to integrating the SMI sector with the economy, generating large number of
employment, and increasing production and exports in particular of non-traditional products.
Manufacturing industries grew by about 8.6 percent during 1990-96 (GDP growth was 5.3% in the same
period) and its share in total exports increased from 54 percent in 1990 to 75 percent in 1996 [also see
study by G. Wignaraja, 1997. "Trade Policy: Technology and Manufactured Exports: Sri Lanka's
Liberalization Experience". Basingstoke, UK: McMillan Press]. Small and medium industries grew by
about 6 percent during the same period and their output level have been positively correlated with larger
industrial output and GDP, indicating integration of this sector into the economy (Annex XI). The recent
OED study [World Bank Support for Small and Medium Industries in Sri Lanka: An Inpact Evaluation;
June 1997] provides more detailed statistics and analysis on the impact of all four SMI credit lines. These
IDA projects set the trend for SMI lending in Sri Lanka and the commercial banks and the DFIs are now
committed to lend to this vital sector because of strong demand and its potential for growth. The PCIs
highly value the experiences and benefits they gained through the SMI projects. They believe that it was
the SMI scheme that created awareness and opportunity for them to learn systematic and methodical credit
lending and helped them improve their project appraisal and supervision capabilities. The PCIs established
a separate "credit and project finance" department with trained and qualified staff to better service the
growing demand by their clients in productive sector. The performance of PCIs was closely monitored by
the Bank and NDB to ensure their eligibility with respect to participation criteria such as profitability and
loan recovery rate (Annex VIII). PCIs' performance was satisfactory (see para. 21 for more details).
8.    The GOSL lent the credit proceed to NDB for 15 years including a five years grace period at the
Average Weighted Deposit Rate (AWDR) 3. NDB, in turn, onlent the proceed to PCIs at AWDR and
received a fee of 1 percent on the credit amount disbursed and outstanding. The PCIs relent the proceed to
sub-borrowers and were free to charge a market determined interest rate (fixed or variable) to cover their
cost of operations and the project risk. The lending rates to the sub-borrowers was ranging from 19 to 22
percent. The credit component, together with ADB credit line, provided loans to about 6,000 small and
3The AWDR is defined as the weighted average of interest-bearing term deposits of the Greater Colombo branches
of domestic commercial banks (excluding the National Savings Bank). A rolling six months AWDR is calculated
by the CBSL for the period April 1 - September 30 and October 1 - March 31, with adjustment to the lending rate
on January 1 and July 1 of each year.



4
medium industrial and service units and created about 43,000 jobs, with incremental fixed investment per
job of about US$ 3,300 (Annex V). The comparable figures estimated at the Appraisal were 25,000 jobs
and US$ 6,200 per job investment. It is not, however, clear from the Appraisal whether the ADB credit
line was included in these calculations. The projects financed under SMI-IV were mostly in the labor
intensive subsectors (e.g., Textiles, food processing, Garments, construction materials) with the average
employment per job of about 7. In addition, with the inadequate technology involved, the employment
number increased. Over 53 percent of subloans were equal to or smaller than Rs 0.5 million and the
average subloan size was about Rs 0.64 million (approximately US$ 13,400) against appraisal estimate of
Rs 0.9 million (Annex I). This was mainly due to active SMI lending by SCBs which have very large
branch network in rural areas and mostly catered smaller industries. Despite their suspension for about 3
years, the two SCBs accounted for about 33 percent of the subloan approvals by number but only 25
percent of those by amount (Annex I), resulting in less than average subloan size of Rs 0.49 million. The
average subloans would have been even smaller if the SCBs were not suspended. About 40 percent of
subloans were made for financing new industrial establishments and 60 percent for expansion of existing
firms (Anmex IV). The sectoral composition of financed subprojects was consistent with the expected
growth subsectors (Annex VI). The subprojects were mainly concentrated in Colombo, Kurunegala,
Puttalam, and Gampaha Districts in Western and North Western Provinces (about 61 percent by number
and 71 percent by amount) because of continuing ethnic disturbances in the Eastern and Northern
Provinces (Annex VII) and inadequate infrastructure in other provinces. This pattern of geographical
distribution of subprojects was similar to that of previous three SMI projects.
9.    The Central Bank Credit Guarantee Scheme started under SMI-I project. At that time, lack of
collateral was one of the main hindrance to the provision of term loans to the SMI sector; therefor, the
Government introduced this scheme which offered securities to the PCIs for term lending to SMIs. PCIs,
unanimously, believe that while credit guarantee was important in the past under the first two SMI credit
lines, its continuation under SMI-IH & IV was not necessary because PCIs' capacity for methodical and
systematic project appraisal and supervision was substantially strengthened, their loan collection
performance has been satisfactory, and they are now committed to support SMI sector. All the subloans
were automatically covered under the credit guarantee scheme and the PCIs were obliged to pay the
premium. The PCIs rarely filed claims for their subloans in arrears because the payments by the Central
Bank was not guaranteed and the cost of processing these claims outweighed the benefits, if any. Despite
the PCIs' views of the scheme, the Government plans to continue this scheme for other donor funded
projects.
10.   Implementation of Technical Assistance Component - The SDR 3.7 million TA fund was allocated
for: (i) institutional development - SDR 2.59 million; (ii) policy development; specifically in the areas of
trade, non-bank financial sector (insurance industry), and enviromnent - SDR 0.74 million; and (iii) project
implementation support - SDR 37,000 (Annex IX). Overall, the TA component was implemented
satisfactorily and achieved its development objectives. Its impact in few areas was not as expected by the
Appraisal. In 1994 and 1995 part of the unused/unallocated TA components were reallocated to finance
eligible projects, mostly on environment.
11.   The adjustment program that was initiated by the Government in 1989 (para. 2) was supported by
the IMF's Structural Adjustment Facility and subsequently by IDA under two adjustment loans (ERC and
PMEAC) and several financial/industrial intermediation operations. ADB was simultaneously active in
dialogue and financing. Therefore, it is not easy to exactly evaluate the impact of one project on the
achievement of the policy reform programs. Since 1989, considerable efforts have been made to improve
the financial sector and develop a prudent environment for the private sector and each of these donor
funded projects have had a share in facilitating the implementation of the elements of the GOSL's reform



5
program. The following paragraphs (12-20) provide the implementation experience and results of the
specific TA projects proposed for funding in the SMI-IV Staff Appraisal Report.
12.   Institutional Development component was proposed to: (i) assist the PCIs and NDB in building
their capability in project finance through staff training and system/operations improvement; and (ii)
continue support for developing the operations of the two SCBs. 7he PCIs upgrading and staff training
program was highly satisfactory and achieved its objectives. The success of the program is attributed to
several factors such as NDB's effective monitoring and management of the training programs; design and
content of the courses; clear objective of the courses; proper organization and transparency of selection of
staff, frequency of courses; availability of funds to benefit large number of staff at various levels;
commitment of PCIs to improve their human resources; and staff motivation and career development
objectives.
13.   Strengthening the two SCBs' operations was initiated under the Third SMI project which was
approved in 1988. IDA allocated substantial amount of TA funds under the previous three intermediary
operations (SMI-III, Industrial Development Projects II & III) for phased operational review of all aspects
of these banks in order to prepare them for possible restructuring/privatization. Despite these efforts, the
1990 financial sector study identified weaknesses in various aspects of the banks' operations (such as
inadequate capital base, high non-performing loans, high administrative costs, etc.). Therefore, with the
objective of continuing its support for improving the financial sector in Sri Lanka, IDA allocated additional
TA fund under the SMI-IV project for further review of the SCBs' operations and required that the
financial accounts of these banks be audited by qualified international auditors. The studies under all IDA
projects were carried out by two foreign consultancy firms and completed in 1992. BOC has taken
appropriate actions to implement the diagnostic information in some areas (such as credit policies and
procedures, Management Information System, organization structure). In other areas, such as human
resources and technology, the impact was marginal. As for the PB, the impact of the TA was low because
of: (i) unsatisfactory performance of the consultants (lack of continuity in the task teams, their little
involvement in the actual implementation, performing the tasks mostly from offices outside Colombo); (ii)
unclarity regarding ownership of the studies and lack of close collaboration between PB and the
consultants; and (iii) lack of commitment and interest from the PB's management to accept and implement
the consultant's recommendations. Initially, less than 40 percent of the recommendations were accepted
and implemented which were mainly in the areas of branch reorganization/operations and to a lesser degree
in the credit policies. The new PB's management has recently been looking at the recommendations again
and has considered to use the recommendations, as applied, and further strengthen the bank. In general, the
SCBs improved their operations in some areas and found these studies and consultancies a beneficial
exposure to the techniques used in other countries. Some weaknesses, however, remained and restructuring
of the SCBs has not materialized.
14.   The result of TA on Policy Development was mixed and varied by implementing institutions and
projects. To assist the GOSL in its efforts to develop and promote exports, IDA provided TA funds to the
Export Development Board (EDB) of Sri Lanka under SMI-IV (US$ 250,000 TA fund) and previous
projects (SMI-II, IDP II & III) for policy improvements and EDB's institutional strengthening. EDB is
responsible for the formulation of Government's export policies and promoting exports through appropriate
incentives and marketing as well as providing exporters with subsectoral information. Three studies,
financed by previous IDA projects, were carried out to review the organizational structure and strategies of
EDB. The reconmmendations of these studies were, more or less, along the same line. But the
recommendations (except for staff training) were not implemented due to lack of commitments of
management to restructuring and constraints by political environment. In view of this, the 1994
supervision mission and the GOSL concluded that another similar study (proposed by SMI-IV) would not



6
be a good use of the TA fund and would not benefit the project implementation; therefore, agreed to cancel
the EDB's allocation under SMI-IV. This fund was transferred to the pool for other eligible projects in
potential areas.
15.   The declaration and documentation processes within the Department of Customs and Excise
(DCE) was identified, by IDA and UNDP, as a significant bottleneck which constrained the smooth flow of
material needed for trade and production. Therefore, rationalization of DEC's procedures was considered
essential in facilitating the trade procedures for the private sector and business community. Modernization
and computerization of DCE started in 1992 with financial and technical assistance from UNDP and IDA
under three operations (ERC, SMI-IV, PMEAC). The project was completed in 1995 at a total cost of
about US$ 2 mnillion of which US$ 1.2 million was granted by the UNDP and US$ 200,000 under SMI-IV.
The allocation under SMI-IV was not utilized until 1994 because DCE and Ministry of Finance did not
know about this allocation under SMI-IV. This is an indication of lack of coordination among the
concerned institutions and adequate knowledge of the elements of the approved projects.
16.   The ASYCUDA system was used to computerize entire imports declaration procedures (the Long
Room), exports, bonding, and air cargo imports/exports units. All the related offices were refurbished and
air conditioned, computer furniture were purchased, and a large number (about 350) Customs officers were
trained in data processing. In addition, about 2,800 Customs House Agents were trained in the use of new
declaration forms. Computerization of DCE was a successful project and resulted in improved statistical
and management information, increase of revenue yield (imports revenue recorded an increase of US$ 90
million or 17.5% in the year following computerization), speedier clearance, and improved Customs
efficiency. DCE is now in the process of upgrading their computer system to ASYCUDA++ in order to
enhance the linkage to other systems such as those of traders. While computerization was successfully
completed, DCE was not reorganized as recommended by IDA and UNDP. The management of DCE has
recently recognized that certain reforms in the custom procedures and organizational structure are
necessary for further modernization programs and smooth implementation of upgraded systems. In view of
this need, DCE decided to get further technical assistance from the World Custom Organization (WCO) in
this area. The process of this assistance already started and is expected to be completed by end of 1998.
17.   The Government's policy and the regulatory framework under which the insurance industry
function did not allow their integration into the evolving financial sector. The SMI-IV project proposed to
review and improve/strengthen the insurance legislation in order to allow greater competition between the
public and private insurance companies and to make the industry responsive to the environment of financial
liberalization by pursuing more sophisticated portfolio management. In addition, the project proposed to
strengthen the office of the Controller of Insurance. An allocation of US$ 200,000 was made for a brief
diagnostic study in this area. Broader issues with respect to the non-bank financial sector, in particular
those related to the insurance industries and other contractual savings institutions were further addressed by
IDA's Private Finance Development Project (PFDP) which was being prepared in 1992, the first year of
SMI-IV project (para. 34). In light of objectives of this project and GOSL's efforts in strengthening the
insurance industries, the allocated fund under SMI-IV project was earmarked for possible TA needs in this
area. This fund, however, was never used.
18.   Environmental Components - SMI-IV project allocated US$ 300,000 TA fund to assist the CEA:
(i) develop environmental guidelines and an action plan for industrial subsectors which link the objective of
industrial growth and enviromnental protection; and (ii) ensure that the PCIs and NDB incorporate
environmental impact assessment and managerial plans into the appraisal process of subprojects. A
Japanese Grant Fund (JGF) of Yen 108 million (about US$ 800,000 equivalent) was also provided to
further support this component. Subsequently, the Government identified additional and related TA



7
activities which were supported by the 1994 and 1995 supervision missions for financing under SMI-IV
(para. 10). The details of objectives, implementation experience, and results of the specific
environmental TA projects are provided in Appendix A and Annex X.
19.   To further assist the SMI sector, ADB allocated about US$ 260,000 TA fund to review the SMI
policies and identify the bottlenecks (policy, infrustractural, managerial, financial) that constrained the
development of this sector and to formulate a more prudent SMI assistance program in the medium term.
In line with the ADB technical assistance program, IDA allocated US$ 50,000 to GOSL for
administrative/technical support to carry out ad hoc short term studies on industrial and financial sector
policies. Despite supervision missions' and NDB's efforts to encourage the utilization of this fund, no
proposal was formulated by the Government and the allocated fund remained unused. IDA and ADB
helped the GOSL establish the Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka (CIBSL) in 1990. ADB further
provided technical and financial assistance under its credit line to strengthen the advisory and management
capability of the CIBSL and appointed a short term consultant to assess the institution's potential for
expanding credit information and recommending a medium-term operational policies/strategies and
business development. The CIBSL database (about 72,700 loan accounts) are frequently used by the
banks and DFIs for evaluation of their clients. The Bureau updates its irregular accounts (minimum of Rs
100,000) on monthly basis and its regular accounts (minimum of Rs 500,000) on quarterly basis. IDA
continued its assistance in this area under the PFDP project (paras. 3 and 34).
20.   Under SMI-IV, a Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) of US$ 500,000 was allocated for capacity
building of the SMI entrepreneurs in implementing their respective subprojects. TAF was a partial (50/50)
grant, through PCIs, to the SMI entrepreneurs for technology and product improvement and financing
technical assistance such as consulting services for business development, introducing or improving
technology, training programs, etc. This scheme was administered by NDB. Utilization of this fund was
slow initially because of the availability of similar scheme under the Third SMI project until June 1993
(SMI-I1I closing date). Therefore, NDB financed all the TAF applications from SMI-III project until this
project was closed and started to use SMI-IV fund in mid-1993. To improve and broaden the utilization of
TAF, NDB increased publicity of the fund and collaborated with other agencies (such as USAID) and local
public research/advisory/technology institutions (such as Industrial Development Board, Ceylon Institute of
Scientific and Industrial Research, etc.) which provide technical assistance to SMIs. Through these
agencies which mobilize smaller industries, NDB could organize several group exposure visits and training
programs for small industries (mostly located in remote areas) which could not have otherwise access to
information and services available. SMIs found this scheme very attractive and useful and due to their
strong demand, the allocation was increased by an additional US$ 50,000 in 1996. The TAF component
was satisfactorily utilized by over 200 small and medium entrepreneurs, among which there are many
whose business activities were turned around for better as a result of the technical assistance they received.
C. Maior Factors Affectina the Project
21.   The SMI-IV project was implemented satisfactorily without any major problem. There were,
however, factors that delayed the completion of the project and slightly/temporarily affected the PCIs
performance in fully meeting the eligibility criteria (collection and portfolio infection ratios). Factors not
Generally Subject to Implementing Agencies: The economic and political problems in the country in late
1995 and during 1996 had adversely affected the industrial activities. The industries further suffered
because of severe power shortage in the Island during 1996 and many had cash flow shortage which
continued until the first half of 1997. As a result, the loan recovery rate of some of the PCIs slightly
deteriorated during this period. Severity of this situation (which was observed by the 1996 supervision
mission in the field) and its immediate impact on the industries forced the Government to take some



8
measures and provide relief to affected industrial and services units. These measures included, among
other things, a 5-point bank strategies. Banks were asked to: (i) exercise some degree of flexibility in their
loan recovery; (ii) provide partial waivers in loan approval; (iii) refrain from resorting to debt recovery
laws; (iv) capitalize outstanding interest; and (v) provide easy overdraft facilities. Most PCIs provided
some sorts of relief to their clients depending on their asset management strategy and mostly on a case by
case basis rather than a blanket cover. NDB continued to monitor the PCIs performance. As the situation
started to improve in 1997, the industrial activities have gone back on track and repayments of the financed
subloan have improved. The 1996 severe power cuts demonstrated that the economy is quite vulnerable to
natural hazards (such as drought, etc.) due to its heavy dependence on hydro power for electricity
generation and that there is an urgent need to develop the country's basic infrastructure.
22.    Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control: On the positive side, the continued GOSL
efforts in improving the financial and industrial sector policy with the assistance from IDA/ADB/IMF
under other related operations and follow up operations (PFDP), resulted in satisfactory implementation of
the TA projects in some areas. In addition, strong performance of NDB in administrating the project
components was instrumental to the smooth and successful project implementation. On the negative side,
suspension of the two SCBs delayed the project implementation by eight months. The 1991 international
financial audits for the SCBs revealed that these banks had inadequate capital base and under-funded
pension. Based on these audits, a capital infusion of over Rs 24 billion was required to recapitalize these
banks to internationally acceptable standards as well as provide for their pension obligations. Therefore,
on February 27, 1992, IDA declared the SCBs ineligible to participate in the credit component and
consequently did not cover the subloans made by these banks for funding under the project effective April
1, 1992. ADB also suspended these banks in 1992. The suspension by IDA did not affect disbursements
on subloans that had been approved by IDA since the effectiveness and it was not applied to the use of TA
fund by the SCBs. In April 1993, the GOSL issued long-term Government Bonds to the PB for Rs 10,541
million and for BOC for Rs 13,547 million in order to ensure that their capital base is at least 8% of their
risk-adjusted assets. The Bonds had thirty years term at 12% interest per annum payable semi-annually,
and non-transferable. Although the SCBs were recapitalized, IDA could not re-instate their participation
because they were not in compliance with the timely audit and reporting requirements and therefore, their
financial performance could not be properly assessed. The SCBs' suspension substantially reduced the
commitment level during 1992-1994 (para. 6). The international financial audits of the two SCBs for
1993-1994 indicated that the banks met the participation criteria under SMI-IV; hence, they were reinstated
as PCIs by both IDA and ADB during the course of 1995. Subloans made by BOC during August 1995 to
March 1996 were covered for funding under SMI-IV while those for PB were financed under ADB credit
line.
D. Project Sustainability
23.   SMI Financing - The commitment of the Government (both the previous Government and the one
elected in late 1994) to develop the private industrial sector, in particular the SMI sector suggests that the
benefits of the IDA's SMI scheme would be sustained. In its 1994 industrialization policy statement, the
Government gave high priority and special attention to the development of SMI sector through
rural/regional industrialization and increasing industries' access to marketing and technical advisory
facilities as well as short/long term investment credits. Therefore, with the closing of IDA and ADB credit
lines and strong and growing demand for long term investment by the SMIs, the Government decided to
find other quick channels to generate funds for term lending. In 1996, the Government allowed NDB to
raise a foreign loan of US$ 20 million specifically for financing the SMIs capital investment. In addition,
NDB raised another US$ 50 million commercial loan (from a syndication of Japanese financial
institutions), guaranteed by ADB, for long term project lending to SMIs. NDB loan has been supplemented



9
by a US$ 5 million ADB loan (Small and Medium Enterprises Assistance Project). These loans will be
made available to SMIs, through the commercial banks, with the terms and conditions close to those of
IDA's SMI scheme. Overseas-Economic Co-operation Fund (OECF) of Japan also provided a US$ 46
million loan for small and micro -industries. This loan, however, will carry a concessional rate at about 6.5
percent for onlending to PCIs and maximum of 14 percent for the subborrowers.
24.   Participating institutions - The internal efficiency and strong financial performance of the
participating private commercial banks and DFCC and their increased lending activities during the life of
the project (after suspension of SCBs in 1992) were instrumental to the successful/smooth implementation
of the project. IDA had significant impact on imnproving PCIs operations and their project finance activities
and it is very likely that this impact will be sustained in the future. PCIs are now committed to the
development of the SMI sector and have continued their SMI lending from their own funds after the closing
of SMI-IV project. Many financial institutions have designed their own SMI schemes and intend to
participate in most of the credit lines mentioned in previous paragraph. In 1996, the HNB introduced a
new scheme (Small and Medium Enterprise Credit Scheme, SMECS) to provide loans ranging from Rs
250,000 up to Rs 10 million to SMI sector. PB and BOC have been lending to SMI sector from their own
sources under the Industrial Project Loan Scheme and SMI Loan Scheme, respectively. Other PCIs have
also been extending credit facilities to SMIs from their own funds. The SMI projects expanded the
institutional coverage of lending operations by using the public and private commercial banks as
intermediaries for term lending. This impact is likely to be sustained in future, in particular for the private
domestic baniks.
25.    SM7firms - The SMI projects had significant impact on the development of SMI sector through
providing long term investment credit which enabled the entrepreneurs hire more labor and expand and
diversify their business activities (paras. 7 & 8). These opportunities would have been lost without
availability of such credit line because in Sri Lanka the financial institutions were constrained by
insufficient access to the term savings for long term investment to the productive sector. With the
continued GOSL's attention to this sector and availability of funds from other sources which provide
various forms of investment financing (medium/long-term - leasing/loans), the SMIs will continue to benefit
from having access to investment credits. Many industrial units which borrowed under SMI scheme have
successfully grown out of this sector and are now eligible for larger loans.
26.    Technical Assistance - The impacts and benefits of the TA component in the areas of institution
building of PCIs and training would be sustained, as these institutions have realized the value of staff
training and the impact of having qualified staff at all level of the business operations. The impact and
benefits of TA for DCE is also likely to be sustained, as this institution has continued further modernization
of computer system after the initial phase and is planning to make certain reforms in the customs
procedures and organization structure. The technical assistance under TAF scheme gave SMIs'
entrepreneurs the opportunity to further upgrade their business/products. Many SMIs who benefited from
the TAF scheme under SMI-IV and were willing to provide 50 percent of the TA cost from their own
resources have realized the value of training and new/advanced production techniques. They envisaged that
product improvement are the key to good/profitable business and their survival in the future competitive
market (Para. 20); suggesting that the benefits of TAF would likely to be sustained.
E. IDA's Performance
27.    Against the background given in paras. 2 and 3, preparation of SMI-IV project was timely, was in
line with the GOSL's comprehensive development programs, and was based on an assessment of SMIs'



10
potential demand for term investment credit. SMI-IV complemented other IDA's financial and industrial
sector operations (ongoing at the time or closed) and was consistent with the IMF adjustment program and
IDA's country assistance strategy. The project objectives identified at the Appraisal were generally
realistic. The Appraisal, however, overestimated the ability and commitment of some institutions in
implementing the TA programs (case of TA for EDB and SCBs). Despite the track record of these public
institutions under the previous IDA project, TA supports continued under SMI-IV which, as mentioned
above, resulted in less than satisfactory outcome of their respective programs.
28.   IDA played a significant role, through four SMI credit lines, in developing SMI sector and brought
a general awareness of the great potential and importance of this sector in the economic development and
employment generation in the country. Through continued TA programs, the projects had substantial
impact on the financial and institutional development of the two DFIs and domestic commercial banks.
29.   With NDB's satisfactory administration of the project and timely quarterly progress reports, IDA's
field supervision of the project once every year was considered sufficient to ensure smooth implementation.
IDA sent eight supervision missions with the first one in September 1991 just before the effectiveness and
the last one (ICR mission) in July 1997 right after the project closing. The supervision missions carefully
reviewed the progress of the credit and TA components and PCIs' performance and were diligent in
recognizing the shortcomings in the implementation of TA in some areas. The supervision missions were
open to the Government's ideas in financing other potential projects in line with objectives of SMI-IV and
identified potential projects for financing. IDA's performance was satisfactory.
F. Borrower's Performance
30.   The project administration and monitoring by NDB (the apex) was satisfactory. All the PCIs
highly value the assistance they received from NDB and believe that the success of the project was partly
due to the strong and capable apex. The PCIs performance in the utilization of the credit component and
increasing their lending activities during the suspension of the SCBs was very good and contributed to the
timely and successful project completion. PCIs complied with and maintained the participation criteria and
it was only in the last year of the project life that their loan collection was slightly affected by the external
factors such as escalating civil disturbances and sever power cuts (para. 21).
31.   NDB's data base on the credit component includes basic information on the commitment,
disbursements, and classifications of the subloans by size, sector and geographical aspects. However, it
lacks data on SMI subprojects with respect to output and business activities/profitability. It also lacks a
systematic follow-up monitoring mechanism which is necessary for an in-depth evaluation and analysis of
the financed subprojects. This weakness of NDB's monitoring capacity was highlighted in the previous
completion reports. In light of the continued supports for SMIs and their importance in the economic
development and exports, it is crucial to evaluate the economic and social benefits/impacts of the SMI
projects in a more methodical and systematic way.
32.   The Government closely coordinated with IDA in the preparation and appraisal of the project and
was cooperative with the IDA's supervision missions during the project implementation. GOSL's
performance in implementing the TA in some areas was not satisfactory mainly due to political constraints
and lack of commitment and incentives for change (case of TA for EDB and restructuring of the two
SCBs). However, GOSL's commitment to improve the customs administration and its cooperation with
IDA and UNDP resulted in satisfactory project implementation in this area. The audits of the public PCIs
(two SCBs and the three RRDBs) were continuously delayed while those of the private commercial banks
and the DFIs were always timely. Overall, the performances of the borrower and implementing agencies



11
were satisfactory and shortcomings in few areas were the result of some external factors outside the control
of the Govermment.
G. Assessment of outcome
33.    Based on the assessment of the elements of the project (paras. 5-26), the outcome of the project
was satisfactory with respect to both the implementation progress and achievement of development
objectives. The credit component was utilized satisfactorily and its impact was high. The TA components
for institutional development, computerization of the Customs, environment, CIBSL, and project
implementation support (TAF) were implemented satisfactorily and achieved their respective objectives.
H. Follow-up/Future Operations
34.   At the time of SMI-IV preparation (1990/9 1), it was agreed that part of the Government reform
program in the areas of financial sector and private sector development would be addressed in an IDA
project planned for 1992 (para. 3). This project was prepared as planned under the name Private Finance
Development Project, approved by the Board for US$ 60 million in April 1993, and became effective in
August 1993. The broad objectives of this project were to: (i) improve the efficiency of financial
intermediation by supporting the regulatory reforms in the financial sector; (ii) assist in domestic resource
mobilization for long-term investment by developing the local bond markets; (iii) provide investment
finance to small, medium, and large scale industries; and (iv) help deepen the financial system and
strengthen the key players including the contractual savings institutions (insurance sector,
provident/pension funds), Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Institute of Chartered Accountants, and the PCIs.
This project is under implementation and is scheduled to close in June 1999. In March 1997, IDA initiated
a fresh review of the financial sector comprising the banking sector, the capital markets, and contractual
savings industry. A Financial Sector Reform project is scheduled for the preparation and Board approval
in year 2000.
35.   In addition to the above projects, a number of credit lines for project lending to micro, small and
medium industrial and services sectors are provided to Sri Lanka by other donors (OECF, ADB). The two
DFIs (DFCC, NDB) are also active in raising funds from international financial markets for short/long
term investment lending to the productive sectors (para. 23).
I. Main Lessons Learned
36.    Based on the implementation experience of this project and similar previous IDA's operations, the
main lessons learned are summarized as follows:
I.   Financial viability and internal efficiency of the participating financial institutions, by and large, is
the most important factor in the satisfactory implementation of the intermediation operations and
sustainability of the project. In case of Sri Lanka, a comparison of the performance of the two SCBs
with the private domestic banks and DFCC under SMI-IV supports this argument. If it was not for
the sound financial performance of the private domestic banks and DFCC and their efficient and
effective SMI lending, the credit component would not have been utilized when the two SCBs were
suspended due to their capital deficiency (paras. 6, 30).
II.   Satisfactory and smooth implementation progress of SMI-IV credit component was, in part, due to
effective project administration by the Apex institution. The implementation experience of several



12
financial and industrial intermediation operations in Sri Lanka shows that projects with a good and
effective Apex system were implemented more successfully/smoothly than projects which had either
a weak or no Apex system (paras. 4, 29, 30).
III.  The Government, as the borrower, should be directly involved in and have a thorough knowledge of
all aspects of the project in order to be able to better coordinate among stakeholders and among
various donors' funded projects, to avoid duplication of projects, and timely use of funds. The
experience of TA for Customs supports this argument and a lesson to learn for future operations
(para. 15).
IV.  An in-depth evaluation of the benefits and impacts of the financed SMI subprojects requires proper
sectoral data on output and subprojects' performance after the loan is made as well as a systematic
follow up and monitoring mechanism. With increasing support for SMI sector and its importance in
economic development of the country, it would be beneficial to invest in upgrading the data base of
and monitoring system for the SMI sector (para. 31).
V.   PCIs' experience with the Central Bank Credit Guarantee Scheme was not positive. Despite this, the
scheme is again mandatory for other donors funded projects. The GOSL should examine the design
of and need for this scheme or at least take into account the preference of the participating credit
institutions (para. 9).
VI.  The TA program and its goals/objectives should be realistic and achievable. The capacity of
implementing agency and Government's commitment and willingness to change should be genuine.
Without these considerations, the TA fund is either wasted/misused or never utilized and would be a
net loss for the Government. The case of TA programs for the two SCBs and EDB supports this
argument, a lesson to learn in future operations (paras. 13 and 14).
VII. The implementation experience of TAF (direct assistance to the SMI entrepreneurs on a partial grant
basis) under this project and previous IDA operations (IDP-III and SMI-III) was satisfactory and its
impact was high. IDA, under previous projects, also provided TA for institution upgrading of the
public research, advisory, and technology agencies which were established to assist the
industrial/services units. The results of these TA were highly unsatisfactory and despite continuos
efforts by IDA and other donors, most of these institutions have remained weak and ineffective. This
suggests that future TA projects, if any, should be directly provided to the entrepreneurs rather than
through the publicly funded agencies (para. 20 and the implementation experience of previous IDA
credit lines in Sri Lanka).
VIII. The experience of severe power cuts and its impacts on the economy, calls for an urgent need to
develop the country's infrastructures. Sri Lanka's economy is heavily dependent on hydro power
and therefore is vulnerable to natural hazards such as drought (para. 21). In addition, concentration
of industries in Colombo area and few Western provinces is partly due to inadequate infrastructure
in the country (para. 8).
December 12, 1997



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial      Partial       Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                    E             E               E               0
Sector Policies                  [I             [El                              Cl
Financial Objectives             El             O               O                a
Institutional Development        El             E               I                El
Physical Objectives                            E               E               0
Poverty Reduction                O              E               O               0
Gender Issues                    a              E               E               03
Other Social Objectives          a              E               o                E
Enviromnental Objectives         0              El              E                El
Public Sector Management          E             E               E               03
Private Sector Development       0              E               E                o
Other (employment generation)   E0E 0                           0                0
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv           Likelv                Unlikely               Uncertain
El                      El                      El
IIighlv
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactorv        Satisfactorv              Deficient
Identification                   E                      [E                       E
Preparation Assistance           El                     0                        E
Appraisal                        El                     0                        E
Supervision                      E                      El                       E
Hinhly
D. Borrower Performance           satisfactori           Satisfactorv            Deficient
Preparation                      El                      0l                      E
Implementation                   El                      0]                      E
Covenant Compliance              El                     0                       0
Operation (if applicable)        E                       E                      E
Highy                                         Hinhl
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory  Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
E             03              E                O



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                         Purpose                         Year of         Status
Approval
Preceding operations
1. Small and Mediumn        Promote private industrial development focusing on  6/1979      Closed on
Industries Proj. (SMI-I)    SMIs assistance through addressing constraints                  06/30/85
$ 16 m                      hindering their rapid growth in order to increase their
Credit 942-CE               contribution to employment generation, export
expansion, and economic growth.
2. Second Small and Medium    To support and expand on the SM1-I objectives.    10/1981     Closed on
Industries Proj. (SMI-Il)                                                                   12/31/87
$28 m
Credit 1182-CE
3. Industrial Development   Provide term credit through DFIs to assist in       7/1983      Closed on
Project (IDP-I)             strengthening the system of industrial financing, assist        09/30/88
$25 m                       in trade and industrial reforms, and provide technical
Credit 1401-CE              assistance to improve selected PMEs.
4. Second Industrial        Complement previous and on-going industrial sector  5/1986      Closed on
Development Project (IDP-II)   operations; to provide credit through banking system         06/30/94
$ 20 m                      to medium- and large-scale private industrial                   One
Credit 1692-CE              enterprises, support implementation of GOSL's policy            extension of
reforms and institutional strengthening.                       6 months.
5. Third Small and Medium   Complement and expand previous industrial sector   12/1987      Closed on
Industries Project          operations by: (i) providing credit to the SMI private          06/30/93
(SMI-HI)                    manufacturing enterprises; and (ii) make a further
$20 m                       contribution to policy reform and institutional
Credit 1860-CE              strengthening in the areas of tariff administration,
export promotion and financial sector operations.
6. Third Industrial         Provide Credits through banking system to M&L scale  7/1988     Closed on
Development Project (IDP-lI)   industries & supports GOSL's Policy with areas of            6/30/95
$43.8 m                     Tariff administration, import promotion, capital
Credit 1948-CE              markets and technology development.
7. Public Manufacturing     To support a reform program to commercialize,      11/1990      Closed on
Enterprise Adjustment Credit   modernize and privatize public manufacturing                 11/95
(PMEAC)                     enterprises to promote efficiency and growth.
$ 120 m
Credit 2185-CE
Followine operatons
1. Private Finance          Provide investment finance to the private sector; assist  4/1993  On-going
Development Project (PFDP)   in domestic resource mobilization for long-term                Closing
$ 60 m                      investment by stimulating the development of local              06/30/99
Credit 2484-CE              bond market; further assist the GOSL in improving
the financial sector operations through strengthening
the financial intermediation including the key players
such as contractual savings institutions.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned     1       Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   October 30, 1990      October 30, 1990
Preparation                   ._l
Appraisal                                    November 1990        November 1990   -
Negotiations                                 April 8-11, 1991      April 8-11, 1991
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)  April 11, 1991      April 11, 1991
Board Presentation                           May 28, 1991          May 28, 1991
Signing                                      July 15, 1991        July 15, 1991
Effectiveness                                September 30, 1991    September 30, 1991
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                NA                      NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                       NA                      NA
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if               NA                      NA
applicable)
Project Completion                           March 31, 1996        March 31, 1996
Loan Closing                                 October 31, 1996     June30, 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Appraisal Estimate                5.00   15.00  30.00  40.00  45.00
Actual 1/                         5.67   10.39  20.80  25.82  39.31  45.58  46.94
Actual as % of Estimate           113.4% 69.3%  69.3%  64.5%  87.4%  ---    ---
Date of Final Disbursement:  September 11, 1997.
1/ The actual in US$ and the difference is due to the exchange rate fluctuations between historical SDR
and various currencies during the life of the project.



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/                   Estimated                         Actual
President's Report 1/
1. Subloan financing            1. Utilization of the credit   1. Fully utilized. Details of the
component of SDR 29.6 m.       utilization of credit component
are presented in Annexes I & III.
2. Capital formation and        2. Expansion and new            2. Fully achieved. Details in
employment generation.          establishment of SMIs in various  Annexes IV & V.
manufacturing subsectors.
Estimated 25,000 jobs to be
created.
3. Irprovng te PCs prject 3. Achieved to a large extent.
3. Financial performance of the   3.nnc Imperoviongsth Psaprojctr    The PriVate PCIs maintained
PCIs and their loan recovery    finan   ytio, satifactory    participation criteria; SCBs
rate.                           asset/liability management, and    suspended for a period of 2 &
minimnum 80% loan recovery      1/2 years (part-I; Paras. 7 &
rate.                          21).
4. Subproject performance       4. Strong Demand; effective
utilization; creating jobs;    4. Achieved to a large extent.
increasing exports; new
establishments.
5. Sectoral distribution of     5. Mostly in agro-based, non-
sbrSectoral distribution of    traditional and export oriented.    5 See Annex VI.
subprojects.                                                    5   e   ne   I
6. Geographical distribution.   6. Availability of credit fund in   6. See Annex VII. Utilization
was low in Eastern and Northern
Provinces due to ethnic
disturbances.
II.  Modified Indicators (if                 NA                              NA
applicable)
III. Other Indicators (if                    NA                              NA
applicable)_I
1/ Implementation indicators were not identifies and estimated in SAR. The ICR provides the above
indicators which are commonly used for financial intermediation operations.



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation 1/
I. Key Operating Indicators in
SAR/President's Report                 Estimated                       Actual
1. PCIs' institutional development.   1. Better project supervision and   1. Achieved. See Annex IX.
appraisal capability, more
qualified/trained staff, methodical
project financing.
2. Review was carried out; there
2. Operational Review of SCBs.   2. Detailed review of the SCBs    were some improvement in
portfolio to prepare them for  various divisions; but no
possible restructuring.,      restructuring has yet planned.
3. Improvement in the Customs    3. Computerization of the whole   3. Carried out successfully with
declaration procedures.          declaration process.           TA from UNDP and IMF;
financing from UNDP and three
IDA operations.
II.  Modified Indicators (if                  NA                            NA
Applicable)
II. Modified Indicators for Future           NA                            NA
Operation (if applicable)
I/ Not identified by the Appraisal.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study            at Appraisal/Redefined         Status            Impact of Study
1. Industrial Pollution  To support CEA develop     Completed in 1994   Good. See Appendix
Management (IPM)       environmental guidelines                        A on environment and
for the industries.                             Annex X.
2. Feasibility study for    To control and reduce the  Completed in 1994   Good. See Appendix
establishment of a joint   industrial waste.                           A on environment and
treatment facility in                                                  Annex X
Ekala-Jaela.
3. Pre-feasibility study    To compile inventory of  Completed in 1996  Implementation require
on Hazardous waste     local hazardous waste and                       further work. See
management. 1I         recommend efficient                             Appendix A.
treatment and disposal. 1/
1/ This study was identified during 1994 supervision mission.



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Item        Local    Foreign      Total     Local      Foreign     Total
Costs     Costs                 Costs      Costs
1. Sub-projects    65.0     70.0      135.0       65.0       70.0       135.0
2. Technical       5.0        5.0       10.0       0.0        4.4         4.4
Assistance
Total             70.0      75.0      145.0       65.0       74.4       139.4
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Source       Local    Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs                 Costs      Costs
IDA                        45.0       45.0                   44.4       44.4
Cofinancier                30.0       30.0                  30.0        30.0
l(ADB)l
Domestic         70.0                 70.0        65.0                  65.0
Contribution
Total            70.0      75.0       145.0      65.0        74.4       139.4
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Ex-post ERR was not calculated for the sub-projects.



19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Section    Covenant   Present        Original    Revised               Description of                     Comments
type       status     fulfillment   fulfillm-              covenant
date      ent date
Credit         4.01 (a&b)       2       Complied                            Borrower furnish to IDA records of
with                             project/ Special Accounts and SOE
audited in accordance with sound
auditing principles by independent
auditors no later than four months afte
the end of each fiscal year.
Schedule 4      2        Complied                           The NDB to relend SMI funds
(5)                        with                              proceeds to the PCIs that satisfy and
maintain the eligibility criteria and
ensure an even utilization of the Credit
and ADB loan.
Schedule 4      2        Complied                           All PCIs should have their financial    The audits for RRDBs &
(7)                         with                             statements audited by independent    SCBs have continuously been
Delays                            auditors and submit to IDA no later   delayed; NDB & IDA
than four months after each fiscal    followed-up.
year.
Schedule 4      12       Complied    3/31/92                 Borrower to reduce the state-owned
(8 - a&b)                   with                             commercial banks' shareholdings in
DFCC and NDB to not more than
15% by March 31, 1992.
Schedule 4      12      Complied      10/1/91               The Borrower furnish to IDA a report
(9)                        with                              on the measures taken to improve the
recovery of debts.
Schedule 4      12      Complied      3/31/92               The Borrower to conduct a review       This task was done at the
(9)                        with                              with IDA with regard to actions taken  time of supervision mission in
Delays                            and implementation of the projects,    July 1992.
including the continued eligibility of
the SCBs as PCIs by March 31, 1992.
Schedule 4      2       Complied                             The PCIs maintain a minimum           SCBs were suspended due to
(9)                        with                              collection ratio of 80%, a portfolio  capital deficiency in April 1,
Partially                          infection ratio of 15%, and positive   1992. They were recapitalized
return on assets and on shareholders'  in 1993 and reinstated as
equity.                               PCIs in 1995. In 1995/96,
PCIs' collection/ infection
ratios were slightly
deteriorated. However, with
corrective measures, these
ratios will improve.
Covenant types:
s.  = Indigenous people
=  Accounts/audits                                           9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
2. =  Financial perfommance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  10.  = Project implementation not covered by categones 1.9
3.  =  Flow and utilization of project funds                 11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
4.  =  Counterpart funding                                   12.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency  13.  = Other
6.  =  Environmental covenants
7. =  Involuntary resettlement



20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no incidence of non compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                Planned               Revised               Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks       US$        Weeks       US$      Weeks   US$ 1/
Through Appraisal                                                   19.9       65,800
Appraisal-Board                                                      7.3       20,800
Board-Effectiveness                                                  2.8        7,900
Supervision                                                         81.3      204,300
Completion                                                          11.0       22,500
TOTAL                                                              122.3     321,300
1/ Includes the cost of trips.



21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number              Specialized      Implementation    Develop-
Stage of       Month/       of     Days in   Staff Skills          Status         ment        Types of
Project Cycle     Year    Persons   Field       Represented                       Objectives    Problems
Through Appraisal   FY90      2          NA        Finance/Macro     Memorandum
Economists,            of
11/1990   3         16         Financial/PSD    Understanding
FY91      5         NA         Specialists       and BTO for
Appraisal
Appraisal
Report
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision         09/1991   3          11        Finance           The rating was      The      Originally
satisfactory  developme-   some TA
07/1992   3         10         Econ./Finance    throughout the    nt impact    were not
06/1993   2         14         Econ./TA Spc.        project         and       utilized as
implementation   implement-   proposed
12/1993   3         17         Econ./Finance                       ation      in SAR.
05/1994   3         19         Econ./Fin/Envir                    progress    Suspens- 
-onnmental                       satisfactory    SCBs.
04/1995   3         18         Spec for sup. 94                  saisatoyeCs
07/1996   1         16         & 95                                           extension
Econ./Finance                                   of eight
months
Completion          07/1997   1          17        Econ./Finance      Satisfactory      Dev.
project      Objectives
performance     achieved
and
Implemeta-
tion
progress
was



22
Annex I
ICR - Cr. 2250-CE
Total Subloan Approvals by PCIs
IDA and ADB Credit Lines
(Commitments - Net of Cancellations, as of June 30,1997)
IDA                            ADB I/                     TOTAL
Participating Credit                   Amount   Average                Amount   Average                 Amount
Institutions (PCIs)         Number  (Rs Million) Loan Size   Number  (Rs Million) Loan Size   Number  (Rs Million)
_____ _____ (Rs, 000)  __ _ _ _ _(Rs, 000)         _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
Bank of Ceylon                711       395.9      556.8      515       302.8      587.9      1226       698.6
People's Bank                 391       139.6      357.1      107       108.6     1,015.1      498       248.3
Commercial Bank of Ceylon     190       185.2      974.9      213       185.5      870.9       403       370.7
Hatton National Bank          562       409.4      728.5      432       339.7      786.3       994      749.1
DFCC                          673       699.2     1,039.0     604       638.9     1,057.7     1277      1,338.1
Sampath Bank Ltd.             134       93.4       697.1       98        79.4      810.2       232       172.8
Seylan Bank Ltd.              170       203.0     1,194.1      79        78.0      987.3       249      281.0
RRDB-Kurunegala               326       24.0       73.5       238        18.0      75.8        564       42.0
RRDB-Kegalle                  78        11.8       150.8       36        6.3       176.1       114       18.1
RRDB-Kandy                    151        9.1       60.3        85        4.6       53.8        236       13.7
TOTAL                         3386     2170.62     641.1      2407     1761.75     731.9      5793      3932.37
1/ Commitment date for ADB loan was September 1996; figures are not final position as ADB line will close on September 1998.
There might be few cancellations.



23
Annex II
ICR - Cr. 2250-CE
Annual Subloan Approvals by PCIs
IDA Credit Line
(Commitments - Net of Cancellations)
1991            1992             1993              1994             1995            1996 I/
Particiationg (PCre     Number (sAmoun  Number Amount Number ARmount Number Amount Number ARMiount Number Amount
Institutions (PC1s)              (Rs_Mill)(Rs Mill) ____(Rs Mill)                  (Rs Mill) _____(Rs Mill) _____(Rs Mill)
Bank of Ceylon            129     60.8     27      14.7                                       410    215.8    145    104.6
People's Bank             282    102.2    109      37.4      *        *       *        *       **      **       **       **
Commercial Bank of Ceylon   20    15.9      30     40.7     28      38.3      30     25.5      65     40.8      17      24.0
Hatton National Bank       59     34.2    109      72.2     53      33.2    104      73.9    227    191.2    10         4.9
DFCC                       48     45.7      78     89.3     83      89.1     126    116.4    288    322.4    50         36.4
Sampath Bank Ltd.          21     16.9      46     27.9      19     10.6      12      4.6      31     26.2      5       7.2
Seylan Bank Ltd.           3       2.7      9      14.7      12     14.3      34     39.3    102    114.7    10         17.4
RRDB-Kurunegala            12      1.1     93       5.6     54       3.2      48      3.3      92      8.3      27      2.4
RRDB-Kegalle               12      1.0      18      1.8      4       0.9      7       1.6      35      6.0      2       0.5
RRDB-Kandy                 5       0.3     28       2.4     32       1.6      27      1.8      57      3.0      2       0.1
TOTAL                     591    280.7    547    306.7    285    191.1    388    266.3   1,307   928.4    268    197.5
1/ The commitment was completed by March 31, 1996.
* Period that BOC and PB were suspended
** = PB was eligible; but its SMI lending financed under ADB line.



24
Annex III
ICR - Cr. 2250-CE
Breakdown of Approved Subloans by Size
IDA and ADB Credit Lines
IDA                   ADB                  TOTAL
Amount                Amount                Amount
Loan Size (Rs)      Number        Milont   Number   (millo       Numbe)  (Rs Million)
0 - 50,000          296        8.3        181         5.1        477       13.4
50,000 - 500,000      1505       289.5       1035       203.5      2540      492.9
500,000 - 1,000,000     766       422.7       536        303.8       1302      726.4
1,000,000 - 2,000,000   442        461.9       342        377.3       784      839.2
2,000,000 - 4,000,000    260       522.2       212        440.9       472       963.0
4,000,000 - 8,000,0000   117        466.1       101       431.3       218       897.4
TOTAL                     3386       2170.6     2407       1761.7      5793      3932.4
Annex IV
Approved Subloans for New and Expansion Projects
IDA and ADB Credit Lines
_____________  IDA              ADB                  TOTAL
| Subprojects    i   Number       .. (       mon) (Rs  Amount            Amount (Rs
SubrojctsNume AMoun       Number   (Rs Million)  Number   Million)
New                          1,223      850.0       835        656.9    2,058      1,507.0
,Expansion                   2,163j    1,320.6     1,572      1,104.8    3,735    2,425.4
ITOTAL                       3,386    2,170.6      2,407      1,761.7    5,793     3,932.3
Annex V
Employment Generation
IDA and ADB Credit Lines
Donor   Number of Employment
Agencies  subprojects  Generated
IDA          3,550      25,585
ADB           2,421      17,235
TOTAL         5,971      42,820



25
Annex VI
ICR - Cr. 2250-CE
Sectoral Distribution of Approved subloans
IDA and ADB Credit Lines
IDA                     ADB
Main Sectors                   Number  Amount   (Rs Number Amount   (Rs
Main Sectors        Number      ~~~~Million)  Nubr       Million)
Food Processing, Beverage and Tobacco             617          306.5       419        298.8
Textiles                                           78          71.5         57         64.8
Garments                                           153         91.9         91         79.2
Metal Products                                     207         131.5       172        115.3
Construction Materials (Mineral Based)             145         65.2         86         44.4
Rubber Products                                    36          41.4         28         23.7
Wood and Wood Products                             176         79.8        146         80.1
Leather and Leather Products                       46          22.9         24         19.2
Plastic Products                                   58          84.7        61          66.1
Printing and Paper Products                        130         141.2        84         77.7
Chemical and Chemical Products                     44          47.8         29         33.4
Agro-industries                                    59          27.3         43         32.3
Fisheries                                         207         204.6        135        159.6
Animal Husbandry/Horticulture/Aquarium             230         86.9        175         96.9
Construction Contracting                           27          23.1         19         21.6
Services                                           483         369.2       404        290.7
Miscellaneous                                      87          66.9         62         50.8
Transport/Storage and Communication                603         308.2       372        207.1
Total                                             3.386       2,170.6     2.407       1.761.7



26
Annex VIl
ICR - Cr. 2250-CE
Geographical Distribution of Approved Subloans
IDA and ADB Credit Lines
IDA                            ADB
Main Districts - Province          Number       Amount (Rs)       Number         Amount (Rs)
Amparai - Eastern                               1             0.4             2                0.3
Kalutara - Western                             130            97.9            81              74.2
Kandy  - Central                               324            99.9           236              103.2
Kegalle - Sabaragamuwa                         114            29.3            70              32.2
Kilinochchi - Northern
Kurunegala - North Western                     559           162.8           385              139.0
Matara - Southern                              171           116.5           127              69.0
Mannar - Northern                                                             1                0.6
Matale - Central                               67             37.3            62              34.1
Moneragala - Uva                               20             12.4            22              10.3
Mullaitivu - Northern
Anuradhapura - North Central                    94            35.3            71              33.0
Nuwara-Eliya - Central                         60             32.7            52              28.6
Polonnaruwa - North Central                     86            40.9            86              46.1
Puttalam - North Western                       215           187.7           141              153.6
Ratnapura - Sabaragamuwa                        92           64.4             67              67.5
Trincomalee - Eastern                           27            11.5            18               6.9
Vavuniya - Northern                             3             2.1
Badulla - Uva                                  106            42.1            58              35.1
Batticaloa - Eastern                            1             0.1
Colombo - Western                              812           826.6           545              547.2
Galle - Southern                               123            87.7            77              75.1
Gampaha - Western                              346           269.4           282              296.2
Hambantota - Southern                          35             13.5            24               9.6
Jaffna - Northern                               0             0.0             0                0.0
Total                                         3,386         2,170.6          2.407           1,761.7



27
Annex Vill
ICR - Cr. 2250-CE
PCIs' Loan Collection and Profitability Performance
CUMULATIVE COLLECTION RATIO        3112.96 30(0696 31.12.95  30.6.95  31.12.94  30.6.94  31.12.93  30.6.93  31.12.92
(Covenant: Minimum 80%)
Bank of Ceylon                       92.4    92.8    86.7    93.0    93.2    92.2    87.8    83.7    86.3
Peoples Bank                         91.3    94.1    89.0    95.4    86.5    87.4    88.1    85.7    86.6
DFCC                                 84.7    88.2    80.5    87.3    86.2    87.8    86.1    86.4    56.9
Commercial Bank of Ceylon            93.6    93.9    89.1    90.9    87.0    89.4    89.0    94.3    97.0
Hatton National Bank                 95.3    97.3    97.1    97.3    89.9    89.8    93.0    94.0    96.0
Sampath Bank Ltd                     96.1    93.4    89.4    89.7    90.3    89.0    86.8    85.5    81.0
Seylan Bank                          90.7    91.1    82.6    82.6    78.8    86.4    84.3    92.2    92.6
RRDB - Kurunegala                    90.0    91.0    72.5    89.4    90.3    95.3    91.6         NA      92.8
RRDB - Kegalle                       90.7    89.7    92.9    96.0    94.7    91.2    89.2         NA      82.5
RRDB - Kandy                         94.9    94.5    90.4    91.0    90.9    92.0    90.8         NA      92.8
ANNUAL COLLECTION RATIO            31.12.96 30.06.96 31.12.95 30.06.95 31.12.94 30.06.94 31.12.93 30.06.93 31.12.92
(Covenant: Minimum 80%)              .  _        
Bank of Ceylon                       82.8    84.1    72.6    86.2    89.8    89.3    86.1    83.4    85.3
Peoples Bank                         69.2    79.3    69.8    87.6    73.9    80.2    86.0    84.8    87.5
DFCC                                 71.4    81.0    84.6    85.3    86.4    88.4    86.9    86.2    86.9
Commercial Bank of Ceylon            82.3    83.9    72.4    83.9    78.7    83.7    86.1    94.0    97.8
Hatton National Bank                 86.4    94.3    94.3    95.0    85.5    85.5    92.3    93.7    96.9
Sampath Bank Ltd                     86.0    77.5    66.9    78.8    81.8    85.3    84.4    82.0    82.2
Seylan Bank                          81.5    83.1    72.9    77.9    79.4    83.0    86.3    92.7    86.7
RRDB - Kurunegala                    75.1    64.5    54.4    78.2    82.8    91.4    88.6         NA      93.7
RRDB - Kegalle                       82.0    79.8    87.1    90.8    91.5    86.3    88.9         NA      94.0
RRDB - Kandy                         83.9    83.7    77.9    84.7    86.7    90.9    92.6         NA      94.0
PRINCIPAL INFECTION RATIO          31.12.96 30.06.96 31.12.95 30.06.95 31.12.94 30.06.94 31.12.93 30.06.93 31.12.92
(Covenant: Maximum 15%)
Bankof Ceylon                        12.1     7.1     15.3    13.1      9.4      9.2     8.9      9.4      8.2
Peoples Bank                         18.3    12.1    18.3      8.8     24.5    17.3    10.1       9.1      5.2
DFCC                                 27.6    13.8    14.5    10.2    11.1        2.1     7.3      5.1      3.8
Commercial Bank of Ceylon            7.4      5.8     15.3    11.7    16.8    14.9       3.6      0.6      0.4
Hatton National Bank                 14.4     1.9      4.6     8.0      11.7    11.7     6.4      2.1      0.0
Sampath Bank Ltd                     11.0     8.5     22.0    19.4      9.6     10.4    10.5    11.2       8.3
Seylan Bank                          10.5     4.7     18.0    14.6    23.3       8.6     8.7      0.0      0.0
RRDB-Kurunegala                      21.1    13.6    15.3    14.6    11.6        6.3     7.6      NA       1.5
RRDB - Kegalle                       20.8     9.1      9.2     7.0     14.9    16.9      9.4      NA       0.7
RRDB-Kandy                           6.7      7.8     16.7    10.9    14.0       5.4     4.0      NA       1.1
Returns on Asset and Equity            31.12.96          31.12.95         31.12.94          31.12.93
(Covenant: Positive in Nominal Term)  ROA    ROE      ROA      ROE    ROA       ROE      ROA     ROE
Bank of Ceylon                       2.6      31.9     2.6     35.2          -            -        -
Peoples Bank                         tbp     tbp       1.2     24.7      -        -      0.9      18.6
DFCC 1/                              4.5      16.7     6.8     23.0     6.9     28.3     5.6     31.3
Commercial Bank of Ceylon            1.9      17.0     1.7     18.0     0.9      9.0     2.0     22.9
Hatton National Bank                 1.3      19.0     1.8     25.0     2.1     31.0     2.1     39.0
Sampath Bank Ltd                     2.1      26.7     2.2     30.3     2.0     28.9     1.9     24.9
Seylan Bank                          0.7      16.8     1.2     31.8     1.1     30.0     0.8     19.9
RRDB - Kurunegala                    2.6      13.2     4.0     47.0     3.0     28.0     4.0     40.0
RRDB - Kegalle                       3.8      15.0    4.1      16.0     4.3     17.0     4.2     14.0
RRDB - Kandy                         8.5     30.0      3.3     20.0     1.4      6.0     2.4      8.6
1/ Refers to March 31 of each year.



28
Annex IX
ICR - Cr. 2250-CE
Allocation and Utilization of Technical Assistance Component
Ufilization
Technical Assistance Programs proposed In SAR     Original    Actual    as % of  Technical Assistance Programs Funded
Allocation  Utilization    total   TcnclAssac   rgasFne
(SDR)      (SDR)    allocation
I. Institutional Development                       2,590,000   2,190,625    84.6%
I-A. PCIs Upgrading / Training Programs           740,000    653,660      88.3% Local and Foreign Training for NDB and PCIs
I-B. Operational Reviews of SCBs                1,036,000   1,024,615     98.9% Foreign Consultancy for Operational Review of SCBs
International Audits for 1991 accounts of PB and BOC; TA
I-C. Other Allocations (Unspecified)              814,000    512,350      62.9% to Financial Sector Reform Committee; other small
institutional assistance.
II. Policy Development                              740,000    612,697      82.8%
Il-A. Reorientation of Export Development         185,000          0            No SMI-IV fund was used for this component
Il-B. Rationalization of Customs                  148,000    110,446      74.6% Computerization/Modernization of Customs Department
II-C. Strengthening of Insurance Sector           148,000          0            No SMI-IV fund was used for this component
Il-D. Environmental Management (see Annex X)      222,000    112,395      50.6% Environmental Management Programs/Studies (see Annex
X for details)
IlI-E. Additional TA was reallocated per GOSL's Request
for priority programs on environmental management's
(Annex X)                                                 0    384,066            See Annex X for details of the programs funded.
Il-F. Industrial & Financial Sector Policy Review  37,000      5,790      15.6% One Study and a Workshop
Ill. Project Implementation Support
A 50/50 grant to over 200 SMI Units for product and
A. SMis Technical Assistance Fund (TAF)           370,000    405,074     109.5% quality improvements. Due to strong Demand, more fund
was reallocated.
TOTAL SMI-IV TA 1/                                 3.700.000   3.208.396    86.7%
1/ In addition to IDA TA, Japans Grant Facility (JGF) of Yen 108 Million (about US$ 800,000 equivalent) was allocated for environmental management.
See Annex X.



29
Annex X
ICR - Cr. 2250-CE
Allocation and Utilization of Environmental Component
(Financed by IDA and Japanese Grant Funds)
Original                 Allocation In   Approximate
COMPONENT                           OBJECTIVE ADDRESSED                            Allocation tS) Fina      b    ASDR)        Utilization It
Financng by  SDR)      (DR)
1  Industrial Pollution Management     * development of an industrial pollution        $   200,000       IDA         144,120       112,395
(IPM) Study                          management strategy, an action plan, and      $   350,000       JGF         252,200       232,100
environmental guidelines for CEA
t development of EIA guidelines for
subproject appraisal by PCIs
* establishment of an EIA review unit within
each PCI;
* provision of sectoral guidelines for PC Is; and
2  'Feasibility Study for Central      to propose the most cost effective ways for     $   350,000      JGF          252,200       232,100
Treatment Plant in Ekala/Ja-Ela     collection and centralized treatment of
effluent in Ekala/Ja-Ela Industrial Estate
3  Lab. Equipment for CISIR and        to upgrade laboratories to improve their monitoring  $   100,000  JGF          72,000        72,000
NBRO                                capacities and to meet accreditation standards
4  Environmental Management Plans      to conduct ElAs for five sites designated for   $    80,000       IDA          57,600        24,237
for Industrial Estates              industrial estates
5  Laboratory Accreditation            to assist GOSL formalize the Lab Accreditation  $    35,000       IDA          23,250        23,250
Assistance                          Scheme for environmental monitoring and testing
6  Private Lab Window                  to assist the private labs upgrade their facilities to  $   200,000  IDA      140,000        18,265
meet accreditation standard and the increasing  $   100,000      IDA          73,670        73,670
demand for testing and monitoring services
7  CEA Referral Laboratory             to upgrade and convert the CEA lab into Referral Lab    $   100,000  IDA       70,000        67,144
8  PCIs Training                       to better equip PCI staff for environmental     $    50,000       IDA          35,000        35,000
assessments of subprojects
9  Pre-feasibility Study on the Hazardous    to develop a least cost strategy for the  $   200,000       IDA         142,500       142,500
Waste Management and Disposal       management of hazardous waste
TOTAL                                          $ 1,765,000                   1,262,540     1,032,661
1/ Allocation was in SDR and utilization in US$ and SL Rupees. This figure is approximate actual utilization with margin of error less than 2 percent.



30
Annex Xi
ICR - Cr. 2250-CE
Contribution of Sectoral Growth to the Economy.
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Gross Domestic Products
(growth in real term; %)         6.3    5.8    5.8    5.1    5.1    5.1    5.0    4.3    1.5    2.7    2.3    6.2    4.6    4.4    6.9    5.6    5.5    3.8
Agriculture Sector (%)                                          5.3    2.0    9.       2.2   -8.1    3.3   -1.9   10.4    0.8   -2.4    5.0    3.8    3.3   -4.6
Total Manufacturing Sector
Growth in real terms (%)      4.7    0.8    5.2    4.8    0.8   12.3    5.2    8.4    6.8    4.7    4.4    9.5    6.8    8.8   10.5    9.1    9.2    6.5
% share of GDP               14.5   13.8   13.9   13.9   14.4   15.2   15.1   15.7   16.5   16.9   17.2   17.7   18.1   18.9   19.4   20.1    21.0   21.0
% share of increase of GDP   10.9    2.1   17.4   13.6    2.9   33.9   15.1   28.3   68.3   30.1   32.6   25.7   26.3   36.0   25.8   33.0   31.0   44.0
Factory Industry
Growth in realterms(%)        4.1    5.0    4.0    8.9    2.0   15.0    5.0   12.0    8.3    7.0   10.5   10.2    9.5   13.0   11.3    8.8   10.0    7.3
% share of GDP                7.7    7.6    7.6    7.9    9.4   10.2   10.1   10.8   11.6   12.1   13.0   13.5   14.1   15.3   15.8   16.3   17.0   18.0
% share of increase of GDP    5.1    6.9    7.5   14.0    4.7   27.1    9.7   26.9   57.7   31.5   55.3   21.0   28.0   41.5   22.4   26.1   28.0   40.0
Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka



31                                  Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI-IV)
(CREDIT 2250-CE)
Implementation Assessment of Environmental Component
1.    Backaround - The SMI-IV project coincided with the first interventions ever made by GOSL on
environmental protection and management in the country. Among them was the formulation of the National
Environmental Action Plan. The Bank and GOSL used this project as the launching pad to strengthen the
enforcement, monitoring, and technical capacity for industrial pollution abatement. This led to the project
having specific components: (i) to formulate and modify standards; (ii) to provide an overall policy framework
for industrial pollution management; and (iii) to examine the feasibility of pollution prevention and reduction
technologies. The environmental component was financed from IDA credit and Japan Grant Facility (JGF)1.
An initial allocation of US$ 300,000 was made out of the IDA TA component and additional fund of Yen 108
million2 (approximately US $800,000 equivalent) was provided by JGF, making a total original allocation of
US$ 1.1 million.
2.    Project Objectives - The original environmental objective of SMI-IV was to assist the CEA and PCIs
to introduce and implement a program covering:
a) development of an industrial pollution management strategy and an action plan for implementing it,
including preparation of environmental guidelines by CEA;
b) development of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) guidelines for subproject appraisal by PCIs;
c) establishment of an ELA review unit within each PCI;
d) provision of sectoral guidelines for PCIs; and
e) random sampling of subprojects to ensure compliance with these guidelines.
3.    To achieve the above objectives, the original allocation financed: (i) a study on Strategy, Guidelines,
and Institutional Strengthening for Industrial Pollution Management (IPM Study); (ii) the Feasibility Study for
Central Effluent Treatment Facility at Ekala/Ja-Ela Industrial Estates; and (iii) Laboratory Equipment for
CISIR and NBRO, as detailed below (para. 9). During project implementation, additional TA activities of
about $ 665,000 were identified (Annex X) and financed by IDA to further implement the recommendations
resulting from the IPM Study, as discussed further below. Thus, the total allocation for environmental
components under SMI-IV was over US$ 1.76 million. These TA activities included:
f) formalization of the Laboratory Accreditation scheme;
g) upgrading of private and public laboratories to meet the accreditation standards;
h) conducting EIAs of sites earmarked for industrial estates; and
i) development of a least cost strategy for hazardous waste management.
l JGF later became PHRD grant.
2 The JGF grant's original closing date was postponed from December 1993 to December 1994. Upon
closing, a balance of Yen 27.74 million was canceled.



32                                  Appendix A
Achievement of Obiectives
4.     Some of the environmental components discussed below experienced start-up delays, but their
implementation picked up after a while, contributing to satisfactory achievement of the overall objectives
above.
5.    Strategy. Guidelines, and Institutional Strengthening for Industrial Pollution Management (IPM
Study) - At the cost of US$ 550,000 ($200,000 from IDA, $350,000 from JGF), this study was carried out by
Environmental Resource Management Ltd.(ERM) of the UK, commenced in April 1994, and was completed in
February 1994. This study met the objectives (a) to (d) above through a series of recommendations on the: (i)
development of a practical industrial pollution management strategy; (ii) development of an environmental
appraisal procedure for SMI loan projects for PCIs; (iii) formulation of accreditation schemes for laboratories;
and (iv) study tours on industrial pollution management for key government officials.
6.    Although the study itself was completed on time, necessary follow-up actions by GOSL, such as
making legal amendments and drafting Enforcement Strategy for implementing pollution control laws, were
delayed due to two Parliamentary elections in 1994. Eventually, with active support by the Metropolitan
Environmental Improvement Program (MEIP), 3 GOSL published the action plan recommended by the study
as its Policy Statement on National Industrial Pollution Management in September, 1996. It was signed by
Ministries of Environment, Industrial Development, and Science and Technology, thus becoming a policy
statement of GOSL. A committee headed by Ministry of Environment and consisting of relevant government
agencies and NGOs has been established to monitor the implementation of the actions recommended in the
Policy Statement.
7.    Feasibility Study for Central Treatment Plant in Ekala/Ja-Ela Industrial Estates - An allocation of
US$ 350,000 was made from JGF for this feasibility study, carried out by Soil and Water Ltd. The study
stared in June 1993 and was completed in April 1994 and successfully met the objective of proposing cost
effective ways for collection and centralized treatment of industrial effluent in Ekala/Ja-Ela Industrial Estates.
The findings of the study are being implemented under IDA's Colombo Environment Improvement Project
(CEIP). The collection network is financed under CEIP, and construction of the treatment plant is proposed
on a BOO/BOT basis. Phase I of the collection network, which included detailed site investigation,
identification of suitable construction technique, specification, cost estimate and reviewing tender 4ocuments,
was completed in December 1996. Phase II, which includes pre-qualification of tenders, selection of
contractors, etc., started in May 1997 and is expected to be completed by the end of 1997.
8.    Laboratory equipment for Ceylon Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research (CISIR) and National
Building Research Organization (NBRO) - An allocation of US$ 100,000 was made from JGF to improve
water pollution and air quality monitoring capacity for CISIR and NBRO, respectively. This component was
designed to address objective (g) above, to upgrade laboratories, to improve their monitoring capacities, and to
meet accreditation standards. The equipment was delivered and staff training was provided for both
institutions. However, their full utilization of the equipment has been hindered by lack of and high turn-over of
trained staff. Also, self-monitoring capacity at individual industrial sources is still low to fully take advantage
of the enhanced monitoring capacities at CISIR and NBRO.
9.    Environmental Management Plans for Industrial Estates - Following the recommendation by the IPM
Study and the Policy Statement to cluster industrial enterprises, Ministry of Industries had identified 15 sites
3 MEIP was established by the UNDP and the World Bank in 1989 to assist design and implement priority
metropolitan environmental projects and help in identifying solutions to rapidly growing environmental
problems.



33                                  Appendix A
for future development of industrial estates. Three of them are designated especially for polluting industries.
Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) of 11 priority sites were funded by UNDP. GOSL requested funding
to conduct detailed EIAs for five of these sites, and an IDA allocation of US$ 80,000 was originally made for
this purpose. Eventually EIAs for only two sites, Batta-Atha estate for relocation of tanneries and Fullerton
Estate for mixed industrial development, were carried out at the cost of $35,000, and were completed in May
1997. Due to delay in submission of proposal by GOSL, EIAs for the other three sites could not be funded.
10.   Laboratory Accreditation Assistance - With an IDA allocation of US$ 35,000, a two-months
consultancy was provided to the Sri Lanka Standards Institute (SLSI) by the accreditation body of New
Zealand during 1995. This successfully met the objective of assisting GOSL formalize the Laboratory
Accreditation Scheme for environmental monitoring and testing. National Laboratory Accreditation
Regulation under the SLSI Act was gazetted in September 1996. These Regulations empowered the SLSI to
form an independent National Lab Accreditation Committee to assist and guide in establishing the criteria for
the accreditation, issue certificate for qualified laboratories, and provide technical assistance as required. This
is an interim arrangement until such time that an independent National Accreditation Board (NAB) is
established. The process of establishing the NAB has already been started for which technical and financial
assistance are provided by donor communities. The Cabinet approval is expected by end of 1998. It must be
mentioned that with all these efforts, application for accreditation is voluntary and the enforcement is lacking.
11.   Private Lab Windows (PLW) - An IDA allocation of US$ 200,000 was made to assist the private
laboratories upgrade their facilities to meet accreditation standard and the increasing demand for testing and
monitoring services for pollution control. Administered by NDB, a matching grant scheme was established to
make available up to a 50% grant with a ceiling of US$ 30,000 to each private laboratory. Despite the efforts
to publicize it, such as conducting workshops for private labs, demand for this fund was insufficient. Only
two private labs utilized the grant and one of them was accredited. The main reason for this lack of demand is
the fact that the necessary institutional arrangements required for compulsory laboratory accreditation, i.e.
establishment of NAB, is not yet in place. Also, private sector laboratories remained skeptical about testing
and monitoring services as a business opportunity due to weak enforcement in general. The balance of the
allocation for this scheme was canceled.
12.   The 1996 supervision mission reviewed the situation with the GOSL and at the request of the Ministry
of Finance and other concerned institutions, allocated a total of US$ 250,000 out of the unutilized TA funds
for upgrading the facilities of public laboratories. The rational was that the scope of the regulations for
Laboratory Accreditation cover different kinds of testing and analysis including medical, food, and cosmetics
m addition to environment; therefore, the fund could benefit laboratories specialized in testing in these areas.
This scheme differed from PLW in that it was not a matching grant. However, the recipients were required to
be accredited under the same regulations formulated and applied to private labs in order to be eligible. CISIR
utilized $100,000 of this fund for upgrading three of its labs specialized in analytical work and testing for
industries.
13.   CEA Referral Laboratory - An IDA allocation of US$ 100,000 was made following the
recommendation by the IPM Study to upgrade and convert the CEA laboratory into Referral Lab to meet
increasing demand for monitoring services. The total cost of the lab equipment requirements submitted by
CEA was over US$ 1 million, well beyond the allocation made under this component of SMI-IV. Therefore,
even with the equipment procured with the IDA allocation, the CEA lab is not yet sufficiently upgraded, and
still needs to be accredited before it can be used as a referral lab.
14.   PCIs Training - An IDA allocation of $50,000 was made in order to better equip PCI staff for
environmental assessments of subprojects and to complement the training activities for PCIs under IPM Study.



34                                 Appendix A
About 20 participants from PCIs attended a training program developed by Asian Institute of Technology in
Bangkok in August 1995.
15.   Pre-feasibility Study on the Hazardous Waste Management and Disposal - A total allocation of
US$ 200,000 was made from IDA for this pre-feasibility study, which was recommended by the IPM Study as
a priority action. The pre-feasibility study met the objective of developing a least cost strategy for the
management of hazardous waste. It compiled an inventory of local hazardous waste generation, identified
three priority sites for hazardous waste disposal, proposed options of institutional arrangements and the
estimated costs for the implementation of the project, and reviewed the recently drafted hazardous waste
management regulations. The study commenced in April 1996 and was completed in January 1997. A draft
cabinet paper for obtaining GOSL commitment and necessary environmental clearance for the selected sites is
under review by the Environment Ministry. Also, GOSL needs to clearly lay out a policy framework for
financial incentives for construction, operation and management of the proposed disposal facility. Based on
the initial findings of the study, regulations on hazardous waste management were gazetted by the CEA in May
1996. However, the CEA will not be able to fully enforce these regulations until the necessary collection
treatment and disposal facilities are established.
Project Sustainability
16.   The long-term success of the environmental TA depends entirely on proper enforcement by the CEA.
To date, substantive assistance has been provided to the CEA by the Bank and other donors in policy,
legislation, and institutional strengthening. However, the efforts have not been largely sustained because of
inconsistent government and CEA commitment, weak institutional capacity of CEA, and overly bureaucratic
management of the Environment Ministry and CEA. The initiatives under SMI-IV provided a sound beginning
and must be sustained through appropriate follow-up actions including the following:
1. Simplify the structure of Environmental Protection License (EPL) scheme - Compliance with EPL and
legal prosecutions of the polluting industrial units are on the increase, largely due to public pressure and
litigation. However, the inherent structure of EPL scheme tends to make it overly bureaucratic. Thus,
simplification of the system is a matter of urgency.
II. Make CEA stronger and more focused - With all the TA funding poured in by donors, CEA has stretched
itself trying to cover a wide range of environmental mandates. Instead, CEA should focus on
strengthening its primary mandate -- enforcing the environmental regulation in a practical manner.
Moreover, its leadership needs to be more committed and responsive to the donor assistance provided to
CEA.
III. Detailed feasibility study on Hazardous Waste Management and Disposal - The preliminary study has
established the need for a centralized facility. Further work in terms of detailed engineering design should
only proceed after GOSL commits to satisfactory institutional arrangement for ownership and
management, as well as financing plans for such a facility.
IV. Continuation of Private Lab Window and incentives for self-monitoring at industrial units - Once the lab
accreditation becomes compulsory and EPL simplified, sufficient demand for a similar fund as Private
Lab Window will be needed for lab upgrading. This should be complemented with a scheme to promote
self-monitoring at individual enterprises.



35                                 Appendix A
Assessment of Outcome and Lessons Learned
17.   SMI-IV played a catalytic and pioneering role in strengthening the environmental regulatory
framework capacity of GOSL. The recommendations of the IPM Study led to the issuance of Policy
Statement on National Industrial Pollution Management, with broad support gained through consultation with
the private sector and NGOs. Other TA components provided training and hardware for laboratory facilities
and strengthened the lab accreditation scheme essential for enforcement. The feasibility studies for centralized
effluent treatment and hazardous waste disposal facilities served as an important first step for GOSL to
operationalize the Policy Statement on industrial pollution management.
18.   SMI-IV was the first financial intermediation project that institutionalized compulsory environmental
protection measures by requiring EPL in the subproject appraisal and disbursement mechanism. As mentioned
above, the Manual of Environmental Appraisal for Small and Medium Industry Projects was developed as part
of IPM Study, and is in use by the trained staff of Enviromnent Units at PCIs. New manufacturing units or
those expanding were required to conform to environmental rules, thus resulting in net reduction of new
pollution sources.
19.   As demonstrated under SMI-IV, it can be concluded that small and focused environmental components
addressing a few priorities, are implemented more efficiently than typical large multi-sectoral environmental
TA projects.
20.   The relative success of the environmental TA under SMI-IV can also be attributed to the fact that
CEA was not the key counterpart agency. Environment ministries and agencies in most borrower countries in
the region tend to be relatively new and weak, thus often serving as bottlenecks for effective project
imnplementation.
21.   While development and improvement of policies are important, without effective enforcement the new
and improved laws and regulations have no value and benefit for the country. Lack of proper enforcement of
environmental law by CEA could be one of the major hindrance in further environnent pollution control and
sustaining the benefits received by the donors' funded projects.
22.   MEIP's role in the implementation of the environmental TA should be recognized. It facilitated the
entire program and enabled the efficient implementation and use of funds when compared to similar activities
in other projects. MEIP's current relationship with industry, government agencies, and civil society need to be
strengthened, maintained, and utilized in future activities.
Follow-ui Overations
23.   The momentum build by the environmental components under SMI-IV are being carried forward by
the following IDA activities/projects: (i) the Pollution Control and Abatement Fund and CleaNet, a business
center for cleaner production, under Private Finance Development Project; (ii) Colombo Environmental
Improvement Project; (iii) Colombo Urban Transport Project, and (iv) initiatives by other donors such as
USAID, UNIDO, KFW, and ADB.



36                                Appendix B
Sri Lanka - Fourth Small and Medium Industries Proiect (SMI-IV)
(Credit 2250-CE)
Completion Mission - Aide Memoire (Julv 16-31, 1997)
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Shideh Hadian visited Colombo during the period July 16 to
31, 1997 to carry out the completion mission of the Fourth Small and Medium Industries project. The
mission very much appreciate the kind assistance provided by the SMI Unit of National Development Bank
(NDB), and would like to thank the Ministry of Finance (MOF), all the Participating Credit Institutions
(PCIs), Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program (MEIP), Sri Lanka Standards Institute (SLSI),
the Customs Administration, and the managing directors of the SMI units visited by the mission, for their
cooperation and courtesy. This aide memoire reflects the mission's findings and is subject to confirmation
by the IDA management.
2.    A Brief Background - SMI-IV project for SDR 33.3 million (US$ 45 million equivalent) was
approved by the Board on May 28, 1991 and became effective on September 30, 1991. The original
project closing date was October 31, 1996. However, the closing date was extended for eight months to
June 30, 1997 because the credit component could not be fully utilized by the commitment deadline
(September 30, 1995) at which time the uncommitted balance was about US$ 5 million. Slow utilization
was because the two state-owned commercial banks (SCBs), People's Bank (PB) and Bank of Ceylon
(BOC), were suspended from participation in the credit component due to their capital deficiencies, one
year after the project effectiveness. The SCBs remained suspended until 1995, when they could fully meet
the participation criteria and were reinstated as PCIs. In July 1995, the Government requested IDA to
extend the commitment deadline and the project closing in order to be able to fully utilize the credit
component. In view of satisfactory project performance and strong demand for long term credit by the
SMIs, IDA agreed to extend the commitment date for six months to March 31, 1996 and the closing date
for eight months. SMI-IV was satisfactorily completed and closed on June 30, 1997. The following
paragraphs of this Aide Memoire provide the implementation progress of actions agreed and recommended
in the last supervision mission (July 1996) and those which were approved in the period of July 1996 to
June 1997.
Implementation of the Credit Component
3.    The credit component of SDR 29.6 million (US$ 40 million equivalent) was fully committed by
March 31, 1996 to 3,386 small and medium industrial units. NDB, with the PCIs collaboration, made
special effort during last year to improve the disbursements level. The committed amount was fully
disbursed by the project closing. Annex I shows the PCIs' share in SMI-IV lending and average size of
their subloans.
4.    Status of the Credit Guarantee Scheme - As of December 31, 1996, the Central Bank liability on
guarantees outstanding, after adjusting for claims withdrawn and/or settled, was about Rs 2,540 million.
Seed money provided by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) under all the four SMI schemes has
increased from Rs 275 million to over Rs 1.0 billion through accumulation of interest income from
investrnent in Treasury Bills and premium received from the PCIs. It is still too early to determine the full
costs and /or benefits of the scheme under SMI-IV as the position is changing and subloans are still in the
repayment period.



37                                 Appendix B
5.    Government's Strategy for SMI Sector and Assistance by Other Donors - SMI sector is important
and vital for economic development and employment generation in Sri Lanka. In its industrialization
strategy statement (1994), the Govermment has given high priority and special attention to the development
*of SMI sector through rural/regional industrialization and increasing industries' access to marketing and
technical advisory facilities as well as long/short term investment credits. Therefore, with the closing of
IDA and ADB credit lines (SMI-IV and DFL-II) and strong and growing demand for long term investment
by the SMIs in the country, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has decided last year to find other
channels to generate funds for term lending to SMIs in order to keep the momentum which was created
because of IDA loans. After the closing of IDA project, PCIs have continued their SMI lending from their
own funds. PB and BOC have their own SMI schemes and last year the Hatton National Bank (HNB)
introduced a new scheme (Small and Medium Enterprises Credit Scheme, SMECS) to provide loans as low
as Rs 250,000 up to a maximum of Rs 10 million. Smaller loans are covered under HNB's micro credit
scheme. The interest rates for these loans are similar or higher than rate under SMI-IV.
6.    Last year, the GOSL asked NDB to raise a foreign loan specifically for term lending to SMI
sector. NDB borrowed US$ 20 million from FMO of Netherlands for onlending to SMIs, through the
commercial banks, with the terms and conditions similar to SMI-IV schemes. In addition, NDB raised
another US$ 50 mnillion commercial loan (from a syndication of Japanese financial institutions), guaranteed
by ADB, which will be made available for long terrn project lending to SMIs. This loan will be
supplemented by a US$ 5.0 million ADB loan (called Small and Medium Enterprises Assistance Project)
again with more or less the same terms and conditions as those of SMI-IV. Overseas Economic Co-
operation Fund (OECF) of Japan has been very active in Sri Lanka and approved several loans (mainly in
infrastructure subsectors) including a US$ 46 million loan for small and micro industries. This loan,
however, will carry a concessional rate at about 6.5 percent for onlending to PCIs and maximum of 14
percent for the subborrowers. NDB was selected as the apex for this loan. The mission was informed that
with ADB and OECF loans offering lower onlending rate for PCIs and consequently for subborrowers, the
FMO loan may not be so attractive for some PCIs and industries and will more likely be used for NDB's
direct lending activities. Most PCIs under SMI-IV will participate in at least one or all the above schemes.
As these SMI loans carry very different rates and are made available simultaneously, PCIs and NDB need
to direct different loans to different target groups within SMI sector. Otherwise, the higher cost loans may
not get utilized as planned.
7.    PCIs Performance - The performance of the PCIs with respect to their profitability has been
satisfactory. The loan recovery rate of some PCIs and their SMI's portfolio quality have been slightly
deteriorated mainly due to adverse economic and political conditions in the country in early 1995 and
during 1996 (Annex VIII). Central Bank bombing and severe power cut, due to insufficient rainfall, have
adversely affected the economic activities and industrial productions. Several industries had to shut
down/slow down their operations and consequently had cash flow shortage. In July 1996, the GOSL urged
the PCIs to provide relief to their clients and exercise flexibility in their loan recovery. As the situation
improved in 1997, the industrial activities are back on track. The PCIs informed the mission that industries
have already started to make their loan repayments and PCIs portfolios are expected to improve by later
this year. The mission was also informed by NDB that PCIs performance was closely monitored and that
corrective measures have been taken by PCIs to improve their loan recovery rate. The survey of PCIs'
collection performance which was done by NDB in June 1997 should reflect this improvement. The result
of this survey will be made available to IDA by August 1997.
8.    Reporting Requirements and Audits - The audited financial statements of NDB, Commercial Bank
of Ceylon (CBOC), HNB, Sampath Bank, and Seylan Bank for the year ended December 31, 1996 have
been submitted to IDA. The audited accounts of Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) for



38                                Appendix B
their fiscal year ended March 31, 1997 has also been provided to IDA. The 1996 intemational audits for
PB and BOC have been completed and submitted to Auditors' General for final certification and approval.
The 1996 accounts of the Regional Rural Development Banks (RRDBs) of Kandy, Kurunegala, and
Kegalle are yet to be audited by the Auditors' General. The audit of SMI-IV project account for 1996 was
also submitted by NDB along with their accounts. NDB's quarterly progress reports for SMI-IV were
provided to IDA on time.
Implementation of Technical Assistance (TA) Component
9.    As of June 30, 1997, about 96 percent of the SDR 3.7 million (US$ 5.0 million equivalent) of TA
fund was committed for the following four main categories (paras. 10- 13). The SMI-IV credit account
remains open for four months after the closing date until October 31, 1997 for expenditures eligible for
reimbursement under the project. The uncommitted/unutilized amount which is expected to be less than 4
percent of the original allocation will be canceled. The GOSL and NDB were informed of this grace period
for disbursements in early 1997.
10.   Institutional development of the financial institutions - The allocation for this component (US$ 3.5
million) was utilized for PCIs/NDB staff training, operational review of the two SCBs and their 1991
international financial audits. Several foreign and local training programs were organized by NDB for
PCIs which benefited a large number of officers at all levels. Training programs were considered, by PCIs,
highly valuable and very useful in strengthening their capacity and operations, in particular in the project
finance.
11.   Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) Scheme - A total of about US$ 550,000 was utilized by over
200 SMIs for their technology development, training, consultancies, products improvement, etc. The
original allocation for this category was US$ 500,000 and initially the utilization was rather slow. As
agreed during last supervision mission, to improve the access and utilization of this fund, NDB organized
several group exposure visits and training programs for smaller industries and increased the publicity of the
TAF through TIPS program of USAID and other institutions (IDB, CESO, etc.) which provide technical
support to SMIs. As a result, utilization of TAF substantially increased during July 1996 to June 1997
and, in the process, additional TA fund was reallocated to TAF from the unutilized/unallocated TA
balance. Actual utilization under this scheme was 10 percent over and above the original allocation and
last year alone the TAF utilization was about 37 percent of the total utilization. The small sample of
industries which were visited by this mission (8 industries) and previous missions highly valued the benefits
they received from their respective TA programs, funded under TAF.
12.   Rationalization of Customs and Excise Policies and Procedures - Modernization and
computerization of the Department of Customs and Excise (DCE) were carried out successfully in the
period 1992-1995 with the assistance from UNDP and supervision of the IMF on behalf of IDA. Under
this project the entire DCE's declaration process (import division, exports, bonding, and air cargo) was
automated, using ASYCUDA system. The project was funded by three IDA credits (Economic
Restructuring Credit-I, Public Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit, and SMI-IV) and also by
UNDP. The total allocation was about US$ 2.0 million. The US$ 200,000 allocation from SMI-IV was
64 percent utilized by July 1996. In the last SMI-IV supervision mission, DCE proposed to use the
remaining US$ 73,000 for migrating to ASYCUDA++ system, which would enhance the capacity of their
computer system and link the entire declaration system to those of traders. The proposal, which included
purchase of relevant operating and data base systems and staff training, was submitted to and approved by
IDA in the second half of 1996. This mission was informed by DCE that the management has recently
decided to make certain reforms in the custom procedures and change the organizational structure which



39                                Appendix B
are necessary for further modernization programs and smooth implementation of upgraded systems. In
view of this requirement, DCE decided to get some technical assistance from the World Custom
Organization (WCO) before making changes to their existing computer system. UNDP and WCO advised
DCE to postpone the procurement of the required hardware/software for migration to ASYCUDA++ until
they make an assessment of the organizational structure and requirements for further modernization.
Therefore, DCE utilized the SMI-IV TA fund only for the staff training. DCE's modernization and system
upgrading are still the Department priority plans and are expected to be completed by end of 1998.
13.   Environmental Components - The original allocation for environmental pollution control projects
was US 1.1 million of which about US$ 800,000 was provided under the Japanese Grant Fund (JGF,
currently known as PHRD Grants) for financing the first three projects (listed in paras. 14-16). Additional
TA fund of US$ 615,000 was allocated for GOSL's priority programs on environmental management
during 1994 and 1995 supervision missions (listed in paras. 17-23). Implementation progress of these
components is provided below.
14.   Industrial Pollution Mananement (IPM) - This study was carried out by foreign consultants,
Environmental Resource Management, and completed in 1994. The study made a number of important
recommendations on approaches/strategies for industrial pollution control and management including:
pollution prevention at source, polluters pays principle, clustering industrial units in Estates or parks,
incentives and enforcement, etc. One of the main components of the study was to develop an environmental
appraisal procedure for SMI subprojects financed by the PCIs. An Environmental Unit was established in
SMI Unit of NDB to assist the PCIs with respect to environmental aspects of project appraisal and relevant
training programs were organized for the concerned staff. The Government accepted the recommendations
of the IPM study and in September 1996 issued a Policy Statements for IPM (signed by three concerned
ministries) with the assistance from the Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program (MEIP). As a
follow up action, a Committee was formed, headed by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and
comprising representatives from several relevant ministries and agencies and NGOs, to review and
implement the recommendations of the IPM Policy Statement. This Committee is also reviewing the draft
New National Environmental Act to ensure that it adequately reflects the IPM Policy Statement.
Enforcement of the elements of these Acts and Policies is the responsibility of the Central Environmental
Authority (CEA).
15.   Feasibility Study for the Establishment of a Central/Joint Waste Water Treatrnent Plant in Ekala
and Ja-Ela Industrial Estates - This study was carried out by the consultants, Soil and Water Limited, and
completed in 1994 at the cost of US$ 350,000. Close co-ordination of the study team with the association
of industries in these two industrial estates contributed to the success of this project. Implementation of the
proposals of this study is being undertaken by the IDA's Colombo Environmental Improvement Project
(CEIP). The collection network which include a 32,000 meters of gravity sewers and five pumping stations
is being funded by the CEIP project. The Central Treatment Plant facility was proposed to be funded
through a BOO/BOT scheme. The mission was informed by the MEIP and the staff involved in the CEIP
that the Phase I of the collection network (which included detailed site investigation, identifying suitable
construction technique, specification, cost estimate, and reviewing tender documents) was completed in
December 1996. Phase II of the project (which includes pre-qualification of tenders, selection of
contractors, etc.) started in May 1997 and is expected to be completed by end of this year. Six tenders
have been pre-qualified; deadline for submission of the proposals is August 14, 1997.
16.   Laboratory Equipment - A total of US$ 100,000 from the JGF was used for the procurement of
water and air quality monitoring equipment for CISIR and National Building Research Organization
(NBRO), respectively. The specifications and requirements for the equipment were given by the two



40                                 Appendix B
institutions to MEIP who assisted them with the procurement. Some part of the equipment purchased for
NBRO can not be used and that for CISIR does not quite suite their needs and they need additional budget
to be able to make use of the equipment. Although it was agreed during last supervision mission that ERD
to follow up on this matter to remedy the problems, no actions have been taken by the CISIR and NBRO
and the problem still remains. In general, the reasons given by the CISIR and MEIP for non-usage of their
equipment, were that the suppliers did not provide adequate training for running the equipment, lack of
sufficient budget to correct the problem and use the equipment, lack of required local expertise, etc.
17.   Pre-feasibilitv Study on Hazardous Waste Management and Disposal - A total of US$ 200,000
was allocated for this study which started in May 1996 and completed in January 1997. The study
compiled an inventory of local hazardous waste generation, recommended least cost and effective treatment
and disposal techniques, and proposed options for institutional arrangements. The consultants also
conducted a survey of suitable sites for disposal of hazardous wastes and identified three sites. Based on
the findings of the study, Regulations of Hazardous Waste Management was prepared and gazetted by the
CEA on May 23, 1996. However, due to non-availability of infrastructure for collection, treatment, and
disposal of the hazardous wastes, the regulations can not currently be fully enforced and implemented. To
implement the recommendations of the study, the next step is to carry out specific Environmental Inpact
Assessment (EIA) for the identified sites.
18.   Environmental Manaaement Plan - As stated in para. 14, one of the recommendations of the IPM
Policy Statement was to cluster industries (in particular the polluting industries) in estates or parks. To
this end, the GOSL identified 15 sites for future industrial estates with three sites earmarked for high
polluting industries. An Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) was carried out for 11 sites and funded
by UNDP. In 1994, the Government requested US$ 80,000 to be allocated under SMI-IV project for
detailed EIA in 5 sites. The Ministry of Industrial Development; however, did not take any action on this
project for two years. It was only in the third quarter of 1996 that the proposal for conducting EIAs in only
two sites (Batta-Atha and Bambu-Ela) were submitted to IDA for funding. IDA allocated US$ 35,000 for
these two ELAs which completed in May 1997.
19.   CEA Referral Laboratory - A total of US$ 100,000 was allocated for upgrading the CEA
laboratory and making it a referral laboratory for environmentally related testing. However, their
laboratory must be accredited before it can serve as referral laboratory (see para. 20 for the progress on the
accreditation). The mission was informed that the equipment was purchased and are presently being used
by CEA for its analytical work. It is expected that additional TA will be provided to CEA for follow up
projects through the upcoming IDA's Environment Action I Project.
20.   Laboratory Accreditation and Private Lab Window (PLW) Schemes - To assist the GOSL to
formalize and further improve the regulations for Laboratory Accreditation (LA) Scheme, a two months
consulatancy at a cost of US$ 35,000 was financed under SMI-IV project. Through a twining
arrangement, the New Zealand Standard Institute assisted the Sri Lanka Standard Institute (SLSI) with
establishing the accreditation procedures and mechanism. The consultant appraised eight selected
enviromnental laboratories, provided training for the SLSI, and prepared a report for accreditation of
environmental laboratories in Sri Lanka. The work was completed in September 1995. Subsequently,
Regulations for Laboratory Accreditation Scheme were prepared and gazetted in May 1996 under the SLSI
Act. The Regulations for LA empowered the SLSI to form an independent National Lab Accreditation
Committee to assist and guide in establishing the criteria for the accreditation of Labs and issue certificate
for the eligible and accredited laboratories. SLSI provide technical inputs as required. This is an interim
arrangement until such time that an independent National Accreditation Board (NAB) is established. SLSI
is in the process of establishing the NAB; the Act is under review and it has to be cleared by the relevant



41                                Appendix B
ministries. Then, it must be approved by the Cabinet, cleared by the Legal Draftsman and presented to the
Parliament to be declared as an Act. This process might take another year or so, at best. CIDA has
provided some TA for the establishment of NAB and required training and capacity building of the
concerned institutions to carry out the work. It must be mentioned that with all these efforts, application
for accreditation is voluntary and the enforcement is lacking.
21.   With the enforcement of environmental laws (if and when happen), industries are required to
regulate and control their emissions and discharge and have to rely on the laboratories accepted by the CEA
for analysis and testing. The GOSL realized that there is a need for the establishment and expansion of
private laboratories with upgraded techniques in order to respond to this growing demand. It was proposed
that a US$ 200,000 be allocated under SMI-IV to establish a matching grant scheme (PLW) which provide
a grant to the private laboratories of up to 50 percent of their capital cost (subject to a maximum of US$
30,000) for upgrading their equipment and facilities with the objective of obtaining accreditation certificate.
Demand for this scheme was very low because the labs are not obliged to get accredited (see para 20) and
only two private laboratories applied for PLW fund last year. A total of about US$ 44,000 was utilized by
these two laboratories and one of them was accredited.
22.   Due to poor demand for PLW scheme by private labs, the last supervision mission agreed to the
Government's request to open this scheme to the public laboratories and those specialized in various testing
and analysis (scope of the Regulations for Laboratory Accreditation cover all kinds laboratories including
medical, industrial, cosmetics, food and drugs, etc.). A total of US$ 250,000 was allocated from SMI-IV
fund accordingly. This component was not however, a matching grant but the recipients were required to
be accredited under the same regulations formulated and applied to private Labs in order to be eligible for
TA fund. The Ceylon Institute for Scientific and Industrial Research (CISIR) utilized US$ 100,000 of this
fund for upgrading three of its laboratories. The mission was informed that the equipment which were
purchased are for analytical work and testing for industries. The specification of the equipment was
carefully identified and procurement package include adequate time for staff training by the suppliers, a
lesson the CISIR learned from their earlier experience (para. 16). Two of the CISIR's laboratories have
already applied for accreditation.
23.   Some Comments and Observations on the Environmental Projects in Sri Lanka - The mission has
noticed that there are piles of smelly trash and garbage in the sidewalks of the busiest commercial center,
which is considered as the main street in Colombo, Galle Road. The trash are found in every 5-10 feet in
front of every shop and main shopping centers, and in every corner, with dogs and birds all over them;
which is extremely hazardous to the health of the public. This environment is in particular shocking when
the GOSL has access to a good and related IDA credit line (Colombo Environmental Improvement Project),
which is under implementation, and also to various types of concessional loans and donors' grant funds (as
well as technical expertise from these institutions) for environmental pollution control and improvement.
There have been several environmental projects for pollution control and abatement in the country; millions
of Dollars have been spent on related studies, consultancies, training, workshops, and seminars;
environrmental institutions and programs have been established and funded by donors; efforts have been
made to prepare Policy Statements/guidelines for industrial pollution management with the objective of
requiring industries to monitor and regulate their emissions; and etc.; etc. Yet, the scenes in the heart of
Colombo are no indication of these efforts and the huge amounts of money that are being invested and spent
on the environment!. All these works towards improving environmental laws are very useful; but the first
step in keeping the environment clean for the public is to collect the trash on a daily basis. Campaign for
educating people and investment in keeping the streets clean are to be the top priority for the Government.
I would recommend, if I may, that the concerned ministries, institutions, and staff involved in improving
and cleaning the Colombo environment to pay urgent attention to this serious problem. In addition,



42                                Appendix B
development and improvement of policies are important but without enforcement, the new and improved
laws have no value and benefit for the country (see para. 20).
24.   Preparation of the Lmplementation Completion Report (ICR) - The preparation of the ICR was
discussed in details with the External Resource Department (ERD) of Ministry of Finance and NDB. It
was agreed that, because NDB was the implementing agency and has access to all the information, prepare
part H (the borrowers' independent evaluation of the project) of the ICR on behalf of the Government.
ERD will review and clear part II before submitting it to IDA. It was also agreed that Part II will be
submitted to IDA by end of October 1997 and that IDA to send the draft of Part I (IDA's evaluation) to
ERD and NDB for their comments as soon as available (September/October 1997).
Colombo
July 30, 1997



43                           Appendix C
SRI LANKA - FOURTH SMALL & MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT (SMI-IV)
IDA 2250-CE AND ADB-1084 SRI SF
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    This report deals with the completion of implementation of the Fourth Small & Medium
Industry Project (SMI-IV) (Project) for which a Credit Line of SDR 33.3 mn (US$ 45.0 mn
equivalent) was granted by the IDA to the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL). The SMI-IV was a
continuation of IDA lending to support a program aimed at the development of the Small &
Medium Industry sector by providing funds for investment as well as for facilitating industrial and
financial policy reforms, upgrading financial institutions and improving systems and procedures of
Governmental institutions in order achieve the stated objective. The credit was approved on 28
May 1991, signed on 15 July 1991, and was to close on 31 October 1996. However, the closing
date was extended up to 30 June 1997 as the credit could not be utilized fully before the last date
for comnmitment. The delay in fully committing the credit was due to the susp'ension of the two
State Comrnercial Banks. viz. Bank of Ceylon (BOC) and People's Bank (PB) from the Project,
one year after the SMI-IY became effective, due to their deficiencies in capital structure.
2.    The Project consisted of two major components (i) a credit component of SDR 29.6 mn
(US$ 40.0 mn equivalent) for on-lending to sub projects and (ii) a technical assistance component
of SDR 3.7 mn (US$ 5.0 mn equivalent) to assist four identified programs. The Asian
Development Bank (ADB) also provided US$30.0 mn on terms and conditions similar to IDA
credit to augment funds available under the project for on-lending to sub projects. As such, the
total credit component under the project was US$ 70.0 mn
3.    The IDA credit component was fully committed by 31 March 1996 to 3,386 sub projects.
The committed amounts were fully disbursed by 30 June 1997. The TA Component was fully
committed and disbursed fully by 30 June, 1997. The ADB component of the project was fully
committed by 4 October, 1996 to 2,407 Projects and disbursements to be completed by 4 October
1998. The credit component of the project was implemented satisfactorily and achieved its
intended objectives. The successful implementation of the credit component is mainly due to the
active participation of the ten Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) who had a total branch net
work of approximately 850 spread throughout the country. The local and overseas training
programs designed and implemented under the project contributed to the development and up-
grading of the skills of Appraisal Officers in Project oriented lending.
4.     The NDB played its apex role effectively by monitoring and supervising the
implementation of the credit component by the PCIs. The NDB carried out monitoring and
supervisory activities in accordance with prescribed guidelines. The half yearly collection survey
carried out by the NDB during the implementation of the project, revealed that the overall
collection and infection ratios expected had been achieved. However, some PCIs failed to maintain
these ratios at expected levels, due to certain macro economic and political problems faced by the
country as a whole. Corrective measures taken jointly by the respective PCIs and NDB to remedy
the problems faced by affected sub projects have resulted in improving the ratios subsequently.



44                          Appendix C
5.    The implementation of the TA component has some set-backs due to the inability of the
beneficiaries to commit funds on time for identified programs. The TA component we ear-marked
for following four programs.
1. Institutional development of Financial Institutions
II. Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) Scheme
III. Rationalization of customs and excise policy and procedures
IV. Environmental and Pollution control Projects.
6.    The amount allocated for financing TAF Scheme was fully utilized by borrowers thus
bringing in substantial benefits to the country in general and to the SMI Sector, in particular.
The project has resulted in creating approximately 42,800 direct job opportunities at a capital
labor ratio of Rs. 160,000. In addition, a substantial number of indirect job opportunities have also
been created. The average cost of a Project was approximately Rs 1.3 mn while the average size
of a sub loan was Rs 641,100. The number of small scale sub projects which received assistance
under the Project was substantially higher than the number of large scale sub projects assisted
under the same. While a major portion of the on lending had been for financing of expansion of
existing projects, funding for establishment of new sub projects had been at appreciable level.
7.    The positive and constructive approach adopted by IDA and ADB towards credit
discipline has resulted in achieving satisfactory results from the project. The Review Mission who
visited Sri Lanka during the implementation of the Project played a positive role in assisting PCIs
and NDB in finding remedial measures for problems faced by the project during its
implementation. The Resident Mission in Sri Lanka also played a positive and effective role in the
successful implementation of the project.
8.    One of the problems faced by the project during its implementation was the suspension of
BOC and PB from the lending scheme, thereby slowing down the commitments. These two Banks
accounted approximately for more than 30% under the previous SMI credit lines. Even though the
previous SMI credit lines were completed before the original closing dates, the suspension of two
State Banks resulted in extending the closing date of SMI-IV. Lifting of the suspension imnposed
on the two state Banks preventing them from participating in the credit was made possible due to
satisfactory level of performance and their conformity with the participation criteria.
9.    The lesson learned was that depending heavily on one or two PCIs to take up a major
portion of the Credit would not be healthy. It is prudent to encourage all leading private sector
banks and financial institutions to take an active role in distributing SMI Credit. Increasing the
number of PCIs, inviting leading NGOs and newly set up development banks to participate in
future programs would minimize the risk mentioned above.
10.   Sri Lankan economy is experiencing a reasonable rate of growth and the Government
Policy is aimed at achieving such growth mainly through the development of the industrial sector,
particularly, the Small and Medium Industrial Sector. Therefore, the provision of adequate long
term investment funds to the industrial sector is of paramount importance. In this regard, IDA and
ADB have an important role to play in assisting the Sri Lankan Government to achieve its
development objectives.



45                          Appendix C
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
IDA 2250-CE AND ADB-1084 SRI SF
1.    INTRODUCTION - The SMI IV credit line was commenced in 1991 as a continuation of
financial assistance provided to the SMI sector under SMI I, II and III operated through PCI
network under the apex role of NDB. The successful operation of SMI I, II and III was
instrumental in launching the SMI IV credit line in the effective manner amidst unexpected
developments in the country, mainly ethnic disturbances and natural disasters like severe drought
and political changes in the country which led for some policy changes.
2.     BACKGROllND - SMI IV credit line was jointly assisted by the IDA and ADB after
signing the development credit agreements on July 15, 1991 and June 25, 1991 by IDA and ADB
respectively. The total component was limited to US $75.0 million in the manner given below:
IDA   US$           40.0 Mn. (Lending component)
5.0 Mn. (TA component)
ADB   US$           30.0 M. (Lending component)
Total US$           75.0 MN.
3.    As per the original schedule the credit lines to be closed on 31 October 1996 and 4
October 1996 for IDA and ADB respectively. However, on a request made by the borrower on
reasonable grounds, closing dates were extended up to June 30, 1997 and October 4, 1998 for IDA
and ADB respectively. As per program, IDA credit line has now been fully committed and
disbursed. ADB disbursements are to be completed by October 4, 1998.
4.     THE OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN OF THE CREDIT - The main objective of the credit
line (SMI IV) is to support the efficiency of the financial sector and in turn its ability to channel
funds effectively for SMI sector development. To accommodate such developments, improvement
of support system, including institutional development and policy developments were addressed
suitably to suit the development program of the country. With these broad objectives, the credit
component was implemented in two areas: (a) Credit component for investment financing in all
productive and commercial sub sectors; and (b) TA component to support policy and institutional
development. This credit line was designed jointly by IDA and ADB to meet above objectives with
appropriate cross conditionally of terms and conditions. This co-financing arrangement is the
second step taken after assisting the SMI III credit line jointly.
5.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - CREDIT COMPONENT - The project
implementation was carried out with the supervision and guidance of the SMI Policy Coordinating
Committee while administering the credit by the NDB which played the apex role throughout the
credit. The implementation of the credit was highly satisfactory. This achievement was made
mainly due to close administration and supervision role carried out by the NDB with the past
experience gained through SMI I, II and III. The role played by PCIs which strengthened the
network operations and their discipline were contributory factors for the successful progress among
other things. The evaluation of performances by PCIs shows that the first three berths have been
occupied by the Bank of Ceylon, Peoples Bank and Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
by number of projects assisted.



46                          Appendix C
6.    As per position as at June 30, 1996, under the IDA component, Rs. 2170.6 million have
been committed for 3386 sub projects and Rs. 1761.7 million for 2407 sub projects under the ADB
component. The final amount disbursed under IDA component was Rs. 2170.6. The amount
disbursed under ADB as at August 1997 was Rs. 1565.1 million.
7.    However, the number of projects assisted during the SMI IV operations exceeds the IDA
and ADB number due to financial assistance provided by the NDB during the suspension period of
Peoples Bank and Bank of Ceylon. Accordingly, the total number assisted under SMI IV operation
period stands at 8997 sub projects amounting to Rs. 5263.7 as at March 31, 1997.
8.    The financing made available by the NDB to support financial requirements of these two
banks during the suspension period was a step taken towards maintaining the continuity of credit
flow to the industry. High commitment of NDB to development financing was the rationale for
such a timely action.
9.    The suspension enforced on Peoples Bank and Bank of Ceylon was subsequently lifted in
1995 making the credit flow smooth as usual. The suspension was the main factor for commitment
of the credit behind the schedule. The strengthened network operations with RRDB participation
was led for distribution of credit at the grass root levels. From the total number of projects
assisted during the SMI-IV credit line, nearly 42,800 job opportunities have been created in
addition to indirect job opportunities.
10.   During the project operations supervision were carried out regularly by the PCIs. NDB
and Central Bank carried out supervision work whenever it is necessary to do so. IDA and ADB
Review Missions visited at regular intervals have randomly checked assisted projects both good
and bad. Steps for rescheduling were taken where necessary by PCIs in this process.
11.   Implementation of the credit was assisted through the house training and overseas training
programs arranged under TA component. Simplification of project appraisals and documentation
aspects were other areas that helped project implementation effective.
12.   The monitoring of the credit component was continuously carried out through indicators
reflected from the half yearly collection surveys conducted by the NDB. As per collection survey,
the three indicators reflected were; (i) Annual Collection Ratio. (ii) Cumulative Collection Ratio,
and (iii) Principal Infection Ratio. During the credit period, all PCIs have taken extreme care to
maintain the ratios at expected levels. However, some PCIs have failed to maintain such levels due
to some factors beyond their control. These temporary difficulties have been overcome when the
situation turned to normalcy. Severe droughts, continued power cuts, marketing problems created
from instability of the country, heat of election periods, Central Bank bomb blast were some events
that disturbed the normal trend in the country. Temporary downward trends have been corrected
immediately with the turn of events to normalcy. Hard core cases have been attended through
clinical approaches. Strict discipline shown by the credit guarantee mechanisms of the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) have been helpful to maintain the situation under control to certain
extent. PCIs vigilant approach and proper counseling at the correct time followed by strengthened
supervision activities have had its impact with regard to hard core cases of each PCI. Two state
owned banks found little difficulty in maintaining ratios regularly at expected levels due to the high
number and distribution pattern scattered all over the island. Continuous dialogue with top
management of PCIs and review sessions at PCIs level were some mechanisms that applied
regularly to bring them into track. Hence the achievement of best results. However, RRDB



47                          Appendix C
Kurunegala faced some difficulty at the last stages in maintaining the ratios at expected levels
mainly due to trade union actions which slowed down monitory and supervision activities.
13.   Apart from these development, the performances of the credit by PCIs were satisfactory.
Their maturity in project lending, training and exposure gained on the subject, high commitment
and influence of policy decisions were some factors that contributed to the success of the credit line
from the PCI view point.
14.   The apex role played by the NDB during the credit line was the driving force behind the
success of the credit. The proper coordination, supervision, promotional activities and training
programs conducted were helpful in building project lending discipline among bankers to accelerate
the development of the SMI sector. This credit discipline was well received by the bankers at grass
root level and had due influence in their credit decision. Thus effectiveness of RRDB was seen
prominently at grass root levels.
15.   At the end of the credit, it was seen the SMI sector entrepreneurs rallying around the
formal lending approaches to upgrade their projects. It was a indication of the credit needs of the
country to ever expanding industrial base of the countrv.
16.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT - The
technical Assistance (TA) Component designed under the credit was a step taken to continue the
institutional strengthening and policy development made under the previous credit lines (SMI I, II
& III) in order to build up effective structure for the betterment of trade and industrial development
of the country. The full allocation was US $ 5.0 million.
17.   From the TA component, in the area of institutional strengthening local and overseas
training for PCIs, NDB and CBSL, consultancy services for PB and BOC, computerization of
Customs and Excise Dept., were main components that were designed for infrastructure
development with the aim of speedy credit flow and required structural changes.
18.   The Technology Assistance Fund (TAF) was aimed at upgrading the technology level of
the country to facilitate industrial development in the competitive market. This component we
handled by the NDB and was highly successful with full commitment before schedule.
Beneficiaries were industrialists in the SMI sector. This resulted in upgrading the technology level
in the country specially at grass-root levels.
19.   Local training and overseas training component meant for PCIs, NDB and CBSL was a
successful program since the skill development and exposure obtained were contributory factors
for credit decision in the correct direction. In house training programs conducted by each PCI were
supplemented with resource personnel from NDB and other leading PCIs to make those programs
more effective. Programs were well designed and tailor made to their requirements. And also led
for cultivating, project lending discipline which would help accelerating the growth rate.
20.   For overseas training, reputed training institutions were selected from Philippines, India,
Thailand and Indonesia. Among those PDCP of Philippines, NIBM of Pune, India, JNIDB of
Hydrabad, India were some leading training institutions. These training programmers conducted
by them were mainly tailor made to our requirements in the field of project appraisal, follow-up
and problem projects and so on. This exposure was useful and led for synergy effect. Consultancy



48                          Appendix C
services were obtained by the two state owned banks, viz, Peoples Bank and Bank of Ceylon by
two foreign consulting firms to upgrade their operational aspects and MIS developments.
21.   Of the TA component, allocation made for Ministry of Finance was used for
computerization of Customs and Excise Department, to improve efficiency of operational systems.
The full allocation made for Ministry of Policy Planning and Implementation for Industrial
Pollution Management Strategy study and consultancy on environmental laboratory accreditation
also has utilized 73% of its allocation. Hence, effectiveness was mixed.
22.   Of the total TA allocation of US$5.0 million, 94% was committed. But claims were made
only for 82.8% of the amount committed. The failure for full commitment may be lack of
commitment among other things.
23.   OPERATION EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED - During the operational
period, it was evident the potential of the industrial base of the country if properly addressed its
constraints and bottlenecks. Financial support along with infrastructure development may set a
stage for many entrepreneurs who look for take off.
24.   The continuous financial assistance from multilateral agencies seems to be a country
requirement since the cushion provided under such facilities is attractive. The micro sector
development and special treatment to harness it has become more prominent today since the self
employment wave has gone across the country. The gradual boom in the private sector in the
country is within the vicinity. Hence, backward integration possibilities are growing gradually
while expanding towards micro sector. The potential of network strengthening in the country is
growing today. Participation of NGOs in the network is a new area identified. This close rapport
and direction seems to be a wealth of experience useful for networking. Sarvodaya Movement and
SANASA have shown their potential in this direction. More particularly, NGOs and RRDB may
be an effective way of strengthening the network if their financial strengths and credit disciplines
are up to expectations.
25.    Since the micro sector is growing today, a package for micro sector development should
accompany to any package for SMI sector development. Low cost funds proper counseling in the
areas of product mix are useful areas for development.
26.   Strengthening of follow-up activities and monitoring system of sub projects should be
encouraged through PCIs whose collection levels are at marginal levels. Identification of sick units
and problem projects need special treatment through counseling and financial assistance at
concessionairy rates.
27.   Since the infrastructure development plays a bigger role in the industrial development, TA
component should be expanded towards grass root level developments. In this direction setting up
of industrial estates and industrial parks in selected districts may be useful as a quick step to
infrastructure development. This will help to arrest the portfolio imbalance and will lead to
optimum resource utilization.
28.   IDA AND ADB PERFORMANCE - IDA and ADB participation as co-financiers of the
credit was excellent from the very beginning. Smooth functioning of the credit was made possible
due to prompt and constructive approach of the co-financiers. When clearance on vague areas
were sought, prompt actions were taken for the benefit of the country. Lifting of the suspension of



49                          Appendix C
PB and BOC and extension of credit lines were dealt successfully giving the benefit to the country.
Regular visits by Review Missions were able to check the pulses of the credit ensuring the
effectiveness of the credit throughout. The resident mission in Sri Lanka played a constructive role
as an intermediator in the communication channel.
29.   In addition to that, the cooperation and coordination build up with the Ministries of
Finance, Industrial Development and Department of External Resources and other allied bodies by
them were productive and mutually harnessed. Hence, the IDA and ADB role during the credit
operation we appreciable since it enhanced credit discipline and intellectual dialogue in the process
of monitoring and supervision of the credit.
30.   CONCLUDING.REMARKS - The credit operations was successful though results of
some areas are mixed, especially TA component. Main objectives of the credit have been achieved
though immeasurable. Institutional building and policy formulation have been indirectly influenced
the smooth operation. Employment opportunities created and indirect impact on employment are
appreciative and have surpassed targets.
31.   Funds flow to the country under the credit have been helpful in maintaining the industrial
development which is in the ever expanding form. In the absence of other credit lines, directly
aimed at credit needs of the SMI sector, the SMI IV was the well developed package to the SMI
sector. The network operations carried out through 10 PCIs was strong enough to cater to grass
root level of the country while serving the main metropolitan areas. Since the service of well
developed PCIs were in the network operations, the credit flow was remarkable. Among them,
Bank of Ceylon, People Bank, DFCC, Hatton National Bank and Commercial Bank were leading.
32.   At present, micro sector financing has become the potential area for tapping. Private
sector initiative and self employment trend has developed in the micro sector. Backward
integration opportunities and the development of large scale industries side by side has created
more prospects in the sector.
33.   The policy decision of the government of Sri Lanka to promote industrial sector is an
added advantage to the sector. Hence the credit line was effectively carried out giving lot of
benefits to the country. Since the industrial base of the country is expanding with due attention
given to the private sector and its promotion through privatization program, the continuation of
financial assistance to the industry is necessary if the country is to achieve direction shown in the
industrial policy of the country.
Oct. 13, 1997






IBRD 27509
zi
D~ECl64ER 1996!



