Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9515-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(SMI IV)
APRIL 26, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restrict., distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of December 31, 1991)
Currency Unit - Sri Lanka Rupee (SLR)
Sri Lanka has a floating exchange rate. For SNI I a rate of US$1 - Rs 17.5
was used; for SNI II a rate of US$1 - Rs 20.0 was used; and for SHI III the
rate was US$1 - Rs 28.5. For the proposed SHI IV the following rates
prevailing as of December 31, 1990 are useds
US$1            -  SLRs 40
SLR 1           -  US$0.025
SLRs 1 million  =  US$25,000
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Sri Lanka    =  January 1 to December 31
C.-nmercial Banks           =  January 1 to December 31
National Development Bank  =  January 1 to December 31
DFCC                        -  April 1 to Harch 31



FOR 1A;FICnAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
AGSL    -   Auditor General of Sri Lanka
AWPR    -   Average Weighted Prime Rate
AWDR     -   Average Weighted (Non-Demand) Deposit Rate
BOC     -    Bank of Ceylon
BTT     -    Business Turnover Tax
B14R    *    Balancing, Modernmizng and Rehabilitation
CB      -    Commercial Banks
CBOC    -   Commercial Bank of Ceylon
CBSL    -    Central Bank of Sri Lanka
CEA     -    Central Environmental Authority
CIBSL   -   Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka
DCE     -    Department of Customs and Excise
DFCC    -    Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
DFI     -    Development Finance Institution
EDB     -   Export Development Board
EIA     -    Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR     -    Economic Rate of Return
FIAC    -    Foreign Investment Advisory Committee
FIS     -    Financial Institutions Study
GCEC    -    Greater Colombo Economic Comeission
GOSL    -    Government of Sri Lanka
HNB     -    Hatton National Bank
IDA     *    International Development Association
_DB          Industrial Development Board
ISS          Industrial Strategy Statement
MIST    -   Ministry of Industry, Science and Technology
MTRID   -   Ministry for Tourism and Rural Industries Development
MHTI    -   Ministry of Handlooms and Textile Industries
NDB    -    National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
NGO     -    Non Government Organizations
PB      -    People's Bank
PCI     -    Participating Credit Institution
PMEs    -    Public Manufacturing Enterprises
RRDB    -   Regional Rural Development Banks
SCB     -    State Commercial Bank
SMI     -    Small and Medium Industries
TA      -   Technical Assistance
TAF     -    Technical Assistance Fund
TBR     -    Treasury Bill Rate
TOR     -    Terms of Reference
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SRI LAN=
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI IV) PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowers               Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Beneficiaries:          The National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB) and
eligLble ParticLpating Credit Institutions (PCIs)
including public and private sector commercial banks and
development financing institutions. Technical asue-
tance would be provided to the Central Bank of Srl Lanka
(CBSL) and NDB as the Apex Ageucy, to improve SMI
operations, and to the two State Comercial Banks
(SCBs)--the Bank of Ceylon (BOC)9 and the People's Bank
(PB)--to improve their overall operations.
Amount:                 SDR 33.3 million (US$45.0 million equivalent).
Termss                  Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Relending Terms:        GOSL would onlend the credit proceeds to NDB for 15
years, including a five-year grace period, at an initial
rate equlvalent to the Average Weighted Deposit Rate
(AWDR) of interest-bearing term deposits of the Greater
Colombo branches of domestic comuercial banks (excluding
the Naticnal Savings Bank). In turn, NDB would fund PCI
subloan operations at the AWDR. The PCIe would relend
the proceeds at a market rate determined (fixed or
variable) sufficient to cover their costs of operation
and the project risk, with repayment based upon a
composite subproject amortization schedale. NDB would
receive a fee of 12 on the credit amount disbursed and
outstanding. As interest rates will be market oriented,
the rates charged to end users will indirectly reflect
the foreign exchange risk on the operation. Given this
sltuation, and ¢OSL controls on capital trans-acttons,
GOSL would bear the direct foreign exchange risk. WhIe
there will be no ceiling, it is expected that, on the
basis of the present AWDR and spread requirements, tie
relending rate would be between 182-242, which compares
favorably with current commercial bank short-term
lending rates of 141-22Z and the current rate of
inflatlon of 15Z, which is expected to decline to a
medium-term level of about 102. The mechanlsm for
establishing interest rates and spreads would be
reviewed semi-annually and, if necessary, adjusted based
on procedures agreed between GOSL and IDA. The actual
rate charged to 3DB and subsequently to the PCIs shall
be amended on Jarnuary 1 and July 1 to reflect any
significant movement in the market reference rates and
remain positive in real terms vis-a-vis projected long-
term inflation. The maximum sub-project repayment
period would be ten years including a two year grace
period.



-il-
Project DescrLotions   The objectives of the proposed Project, which comple-
ment previous and ongoing industrial and financial
sector intermediation operations, are to: (a) make a
further contributlon to pollcy reform and Lnstitutional
strengthening in the areas of trade policy administra-
tion and flnancial sector operations; and (b) provlde
credit through the banklng system for long term, capital
investment in eligible productive enterprises.
Major elements of the proposed Project would be a credLh
component, onlent by NDB to PCIs for financlng private
sector capital investments; and a technlcal assistance
component to funds (a) project implementation support;
(b) institutional development; and (c) policy and
procedural development, particularly in the area of
environmental management.
Benefits and Risks:    The benefits arising from the project would be more
effective capital investment; improved financial sector
efficiency; and increased employment opportunities.
Direct benefits of the lending component would include
US$75 million-US$100 million in incremental output per
annum. Through the financing of some 5,000 subprojects,
about 20,000 additional jobs are expected to be created
at a cost ratio of US$6,250; in addition, productivity
in existing units would be improved through Balancing,
Modernizing and Rehabilitation (BMR) investment. The
major risk for the project is a spread of the adverse
impact of the ongoing civil disturbances to the Southern
Provinces. At the project level, a risk exists that an
adequate number of eligible subprojects will not
materialize, however, the project pipeline and projec-
tions of lending by the PCIs indicates a level of term
financing well in excess of the amount to be provided by
the proposed credit. Collection rates could also
deteriorate, but the project provides for strengthening
PCI supervision capabilities, particularly of the two
state commercial banks, to help minimize the risk. The
final risk is that the Government may not proceed with
policy reform in the area of financial sector efficiency
as rapidly as expected. IDA will continue to monitor
developments closely in its economic and sector work and
project supervision.



-iii-
Estimated Costs: 1/
Forui  !*ot4oLoelnIm   k 11   1.
-s(Ru mlus Iu,)    -   (U wiwM )-
Subprojoats                   2,600.0 2,60.0 5,400.0  65.0   70.0   16.0  52
Toebaloel Amlgeww               200.0  100.0  400.0   5.0    5.0    10.0  s0
2,50.0 8,0".0 5,60.O   0.0   75.0   145.0   U
Financing Plans
AOS                                  1,200.0 1,20.          80.0    80.0   1
Istu*r&.eur,                  1,400.0        1,40.§0   8.0           8.0
COSL                            200.0         200.0   5.0             5.0
PC?.                          1,200.0        1,200.0  80.0           80.0
IDA                                  1,600.0 1,800.0        45.0    45.0   8
2,600.0 8,000.0 5,600.0  70.0   5.o   145.0   2
11 Amounts and percentages have been rounded up.
Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                FY92     93    FY94   FY95    FY96
Annual                          5.0   10.0   15.0   10.0        5.0
CUmulative                      5.0   15.0   3C.0   40.0   45.0
1                                11      34      69      91     100
has                       No. IB1D 23009



SRI LNA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDtSTRIESS SI IV)PRXOECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project SvgmAry  ..................................              l-ii
I.     SECTOR BACKGROUND   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .           1 2
A.  The Economic Setting  ....,............ .                        1
B. Industrial Sector Overview      .........         ......          2
Structure, Policies and Perfomace   . . . . . . . .          2
The SHI Sector  .  . . . . . .  . . .    . . . . . .         3
C.  The Financial Sector  .         .....  .....                     7
The Institutional Framework   *......... ..                  7
Financial Sector Issues   . .. .*...           ..            7
Toward a Sectoral Strategy  ... ... . .. . .. .              8
D.  The Environment   .* . .   * 9 *  . . . . . . . . . . . .       13
II.    THE BANK GROUP'IS INDUSTRL AND FINNCIAL LENDING STRATEGY  .         14
A.  Past Operations   . . . . . . . . . 0 . . . . . . . . . .       14
B.  Current Sectoral Strategy   . . . . .a. . . . . . . . . .       15
C. Future Lending Operations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16
III.   THE PROJECT   . . . * . . . . * . . . . . * . . . . . . . . .        17
A. Concept, Objectives and Scope   . . . . . . . . . . . .          17
B. The Credit Component  .... .............................        19
C.  The Technical Assistance Component  . . . . . . . . . . .       19
D.  Project Costs and Financing Plan  . . . . . . .... . .          20
IV.    THE  CREDIT    9  9  9  9  9  9  9  9  9  9  9  9  9  9   9 9   9   9 9   9 9  9   9  21
A. Terms and Conditions  ..........             ..                  21
B.  Subproject Ellgibility  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       21
C.  Subproject Financig by PCIs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
D.  TechnLcal Assistance Funding  . 9. 9 . . . . . . 9 9 9 9        24
This report was prepared by Messrs. D.K. Groves (ASIDR) and B. Cu Kok (ASITE)
following a joint ADBIIDA appraisal mission to Srl Lanka In December 1990. ThLs
report has been endorsed by Messrs. Asanuma (Director, ASIDR) and Temple (Chief,
ASLIE). Peer Reviewers of the Project ares Messrs./Mma*. Webster, Siraj and
Shishido who focused on SMI operatLons, financlal sector polLcy, banking strategy
and trade policy respectively.



-2-
Page No.
V.     ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        24
A.  Institutional Responsibilities  . . . . . a. . . . . . .        24
SMI Coordination Comittee  .. . . . . . . .o. .  . .        24
The Apex Agency   .     . ... . . . . . .  .  .  .  .     ..    25
Participating Credit Institution. (PCI*)  . . . . . .       27
Central Bank of Sri Lanka ICBSL)    . . . . . . . . . .     29
Central Environmental AuWhority (CIA)   . . . . . . .       31
B. Administration Procedures   . * .... . . . . . . . . .           31
C.  Cofinancing   . . . . . . . *   * . . .  .  .   . . . . . .     33
VI.     PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISK   S .. ............... .. . o             33
A. Benefits  .  o . . . . *        * * . . . . * * . . . * .        33
Bo Risks        0    * . . . . . . .  . 9  9 * *    *   . . . . . *  34
C. Areas of Special Emphasis   . . . . . . .o.    . . . .  . .o.    35
V1'.    AGRE!4BNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    ...    . .   . . . ..      35
k.Aezes
1.  The Bank Group's SMI Operations
2.  GOSL's Statement of Financial Sector Policy
3.  Interest Rate Structure
4.  Technical Assistance Components
5.  The Apex Agency - NDB
69  The SHI Fund
7.  Perfo2nance of Participating Credit Institutions (PCTs)
S.  Eligibility Criteria for Participating Credit Institutions
9.  Disbursement Schedule
10. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File



SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTAIES (SHI IV) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. The Economic Setting
1.1       Over the past decade the economy of Sri Lanka has gone through three
phases of development. Prior to the 1980s, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
commenced the liberalization of the trade regime coupled with a major expansion
in the public investment program, and these actions fostered a period of rapid
growth with an average GDP growth rate of 6.22. However, the reform program
did not address the critical issue of the role of the public sector (and parti-
cularly that of the Public Manufacturing Enterpr'ses (PMEs) which dominated the
industrial sector), and the need to improve the country's export performance
(particularly of non-traditional i.e., non-tree crop exports). Thus, during
the mid 1980s GDP growth slowed to an annual average of 3.42, unemployment re-
emerged and the continuing presence of the PHE constrained the needed expansion
of the private sector and the parallel development of a much more export
oriented industrial sector. This situation was exacerbated by the increasing
ethnic conflicts in the North and East. By 1985, continuing slow growth and
increasing high unemployment plagued the economy. In 1986, GOSL presented a
medium term Policy Framework Paper (PFP) with policy objectives that included
inter alia industrial sector reforms aimed at increasing the export orientation
of the manufacturing sector. Achievement of first year objectives of the PFP
was, however, significantly constrained by the spreading of the civil
disturbances to the South and to Parliamentary and Presidential elections in
September/November 1989.
1.2       In September 1989, the new Governm&nt, with the support of the IMF
and IIL, initiated an adjustment program in the context of the second year PFP
aimed at stabilizing the economy, addressing the rising unemployment level and
focusing on key constraints to growth. The key objectives of the structural
reform component of the program is to: (a) reduce the size of the public
sector; and (b) increase the efficiency of the PM1Es through rationalization
(i.e., privatization, closure or operational restructuring). As a support to
the stabilization program, IDA provided an Economic Restructuring Credit--ERC--
(Cr.2128-CE) focused on the structural reforms outlined in the second year PFP.
In addition to addressing the country's serious internal and external
imbalances, the primary objectives of the ERC are to: (a) rationalize the
public sector, its size, its claims on resources and the efficiency with which
it uses such resources; (b) develop the private sector through improvements in
the existing regulatory framework and incentive system and through transfer to
the private sector of activities and assets now being managed by the public
sector; and (c) improve the consumption levels of the poorest segments of
society. These objectives are being pursued by GOSL through the privatization
of the transport system, the sale of major textile units and the closure of
other uneconomic PMEs.



-2-
B. Industrial Sector Overview
Structure, Policies and Performance
1.3       The Structure of Industrr.  Although Sri Lanka has a limited
industrial base, the manufacturing sector accounts for about 152 of GDP and 452
exports. The sector's structure has remained relatively unchanged over the
past decade. Large enterprises, mainly public corporations, are concentrated
in cement, chemicals, petroleum, textiles, steel, and wood products. There are
about 30 medium- to large-scale public manufacturing enterprises (PMEs), of
which 10 are in food, beverage and tobacco processing, while the 20 others
manufacture industrial goods. The capital shares of some of them are currently
being sold to the private sector. The public sector manufacturing industry
also includes ten PME subsidiaries, in which the majority of the shares is
owned by the PME and the minority by a foreign or domestic company. The
private manufacturing sector consists of about 400 large-scale registered
private factories mainly in the Colombo area, 6,000 small and medium factories;
about 95,000 dispersed small itformal agro-industrial handicraft and industrial
services units. At the time of the most recent census (1983), 86S of all
identified production units employed fewer than five workers. However, these
units account for 30S of employment and contributed 8S of value added and
output.
1.4       The Industrial Policy Framework.  GOSL policy has had a significant
impact on industrial performance. The first set of measures taken in 1977
towards liberalization of trade and industry initially contributed to strong
industrial growth, although the real rate of growth of industry slowed to an
annual average of 61 in the decade 1978-1988. The appreciation of the exchange
rate after 1978 adversely affected the production of traded goods. Further-
more, import tariffs were maintained to provide significant levels of tariff
protection for manufacturers. The growth opportunities created by these inward
looking policies were limited, due to the small size of the local market.
1.5       However, since 1979 ¢OSL and IDA have worked closely together through
a number of industrial lending operations to develop and implement a phased
program of trade and industrial policy reform, focusing on: elimination of all
quotas and bans on imports of non-agricultural commodities; removal of import
licensing requirements; rationalization of tariffs through a gradual reduction
of maximum nominal rates to SOZ within a four band tariff structure; reduction
of foreign exchange controls; liberalization of regulatory and fiscal control
over industrial investment; and privatization of Public Manufacturing
Enterprises. As part of this process, GOSL also disbanded the Local Investment
Advisory Committee which approved all new domestic investments, eliminated the
IOOZ tax on transfer of equity shares between foreigners, and repealed legis-
lation (The Government Business Acquisition Act of 1970) enabling the
expropriation of any private concern if this was considered by GOSL to be in
the country's interest. As a further action, the Foreign Investment Advisory
Committee (PIAC) was merged with the Greater Colombo Economic Comnission (GCEC)
in 1989 to give a uniform, one stop facility for foreign investments. However,
this has not resulted in a significant increase in investments and the
objectives of the GCLC need to be reoriented   ward investment promotion
(para. 3.7).  Implementation of action to 1    Aliae trade and industrial
policy is continuing in close collaboration wvAh Sri Lanka's major donors.
However, the adverse impacts of the ongoing Gulf crisis on exports to the



Middle East and remittance flows may delay implementation for 12 months or so.
Existing and supplementary TA funding will be available to assist prlvate
sector enterprises determine the restructuring necessary to operate in the
resulting competitive environment.
11-1      In spite of these measures, the business community feels that
operations are still excessively constrained by cumbersome and time-conruning
bureaucratic procedures, such as, Inter alia, those of the Customs Act, the
Exchange Control Act, and the Export and Import Control Act. To address these
concerns, GOSL has appointed a 'C d ission on Bureaucratic Controls", chalred
by an eminent private sector Industrialist, vid ch aIms at facilitating the
dialogue between GOSL and the private sector and at examining and proposing
remedies for private sector grievances. Where possible, action flowing from
this review is implemented immediately through changes in regulations.
However, the Commission is scheduled to issue its full report by the end of
1991 and any outstanding recommendations accepted by ¢OSL would be Implemented
shortly thereafter.
1.7       Performance. There have been wide variat.ons in the performance of
the public and private sector enterprises. Public manufacturing enterprise
(PME) production grew at an annual rate of 1.2Z in real terms in 1977-89. In
contrast private enterprises have grown by more than 132 a year over the
period. This performance continued into 1990 and 1991 with the private sector
reporting a production performance of about 15X. Private sector is dominated
by textiles, wearing apparel and leather products, covering 442 of total
private manufacturing output in 1989, food, beverages and tobacco (36X), and
chemical, rubber and plastic products (9S). Garment exports, which increased
from US$12 million in 1977 to US$325 million in 1986 and to about US$510
million in 1990, now account for about 56S of total manufactured exports,
although the value added content is only about 202. As a consequence, the share
of the private sector in the Sri Lanka economy has signifieantly increased over
the last decade, and reached about 70S of industrial output in 1990.
The SMI Sector
1.8       The Policy Framework.  Although GOSL's Industrial Strategy Statement
(ISS) issued in December 1989 refers to the need to support the development of
SMI activities, no definition is given of a SMI. Different agencies use
differing definitions, which effectively cover the bulk of industrial and
related service operations in Sri Lanka. However, since 1977 the upper asset
levels (excluding land and buildings) for SMI have been progressively
increased, rising from Rs 2.0 million (PY79), to Rs 4.0 million (FY88), to
Rs 8.0 million (FY90). GOSL policies for industrial development allow SMIs to
set up and operate with only minimal regulatory control (e.g., registration
with the Central Environmental Authority--CEA--or the Ministry of Labor), and
market signals are the main determinants of SMI investments and their via-
bility. Except for location permits in line vlth zcuing regulations, further
approval is not required. GOSL's policy requires SHIs to be in the privkte
sector. Sub-sectors vith perceived strong potential, high value added and
limited economies of scale are promoted, but not reserved, for SMI investment.
GOSL's intent is also to develop industry in more remote urban and rural areas
(particularly in the Mahaweli) but this objective again is pursued by promotion
and provision of services rather than wLth distortional incentives.



-4-
1.9       SMI Technical Sup2ort. SMI technical assistance (TA) support is
presently a GOSL responsibility, carried out by technical agencies under the
direct control of the Ministry of Industry, Science and Technology (MIST),
Ministry of Handlooms and Textile Industries (MHTI), and the Ministry for
Tourism and Rural Industries Development (MTRID). The agencies include the
Industrial Development Board (IDB), the Export Development Board (EDB), and the
Textile and Garment Industries Treining Centers. Using multi- and bilateral
funding, these agencies have focused their SMI assistance on developing service
centers and induntrial estates, and establishing training and production
centers for handicrafts.
1.10      The performance of the various agencies in providing TA to
entrepreneurs under earlier SMI Projects has been mixed and, apart from the
successful Garment Industry Training Ceiter, there is very little to show for
the significant amount of funding that has been provided to tLem.  Major
'eaknesses include a lack of direction, poor inter agency coordination and a
-supply driven' approach to p,roviding TA rather than assessing the real needs
of the sector. This issue will be addressed by the Government's SMI
Coordination Committee (para. 1.12). Until the weaknesses noted are addressed,
the agencies provide a poor vehicle for catalyzing SMI development.
1.11      The ability of the public sector agenciee to provide effective SMI
investment and export support is, in part, constrained by problems of
attracting, retaining, and motivating suitable managerial and tc,;hnical staff.
The challenge is to make the agencies more demand oriented and to enable SNI
entrepreneurs to tap the increasing level of know-how available iu the private
sector. In this regard, the development of private sector technical support
services has been fostered under ongoing IDA and ADB operations and this
approach would be continued by: (a) allowing SMIs to use the private sector
consulting industry to provide specialist technical assistance; and
(b) developing Non-Government Organization (NGO) facilities such as the Small
and Medium Enterprise Developers (SMED) Project operated by the Federated
Chambers of Commerce with fund..- from the Friedrich Naumann Foundation of
Germany. Further TA funding woula be provided to strengthen the policy and
procedural support of institutions such as EDB, SM. Policy Coordinating
Committee and financial intermediaries (para. 3.7).
1.12      Coordination of SMI Development.  Given the number of ministries
directly or indirectly involved in industrial deve'.opment, and especially small
and medium industry development, GOSL established a $MT Coordination Committee
under the Chairmanship of the then Ministry of Industries and Scientific
Affairs. This Coumittee, with administrative support from the Ministry of
Policy, Planning and Implementation, provided both policy and procedural
guidance for SMI development. However, during the latter part of FY89 and
early FY90, the Committee became inoperative pending the results of country-
wide elections and a restructuring of related ministries. The Committee has
been re-established with the brief of introducing coordination in the new
administrative environment (para. 5.1). A further objective of the Committee
is to identify alternative conduits for channelling investment funding to S14
entrepreneurs.
1.13      Overall Sectoral Share and Growth.  $MIs continue to dominate the
private manufacturing sector, accounting for over 902 of private industrial
units, 702 of employment and 55Z of value added in private manufacturing.
Substantial increases in industrial investment in medium scale industry and



- 5.
output have been among firms involvi:g foreign capital. Yearly approv,kls by the
FIAC (now merged with the GCEC) have grown from about 475 in 1985 to about
1,500 in 1990. However, lesa than 50Z of these firms are in commercial
operation, and the final number to be actually established is uncertain. In a
broader context, domestic investment has increased markedly, and combined
local/foreign investments have shown a steady increase, with growth most
noticeable in SMI operations.
1.14      Geographical and Sub-sectoral Distribution.  Because of the
availability of key infrastructure support facilities (roads, water,
electricity and access to port and airport facilities), about 65Z of the SMI
investments funded by ADB and IDA during the last decade have been located in
the urban areas of Colombo, Kalutara, Kandy, Matara, Jaffna, Galle and
Kurunegala districts (Annex 1, Attanhment 1). The main SMI product groups,
constituting about 72? of the investment, are food processing, textiles and
garments, light engineering, rubber and chemical goods, wood and paper
products, and construction materiala (Annex 1, Attachment 2). Product
concentrations among small and cottage units are found in related lines: hand
looms, pottery, distillers, blacksmithing, sheet rubber, rice mills and bricks,
although investment in several of these traditional product areas has been
unsuccessful in competing with local or imported items manufactured by labor-
intensive modern firms.
1.15      Growth Sub-sectors.  Against the background of GOSL's ISS and
incentive structure, agro-industries, selected textile products and light
engineering are expected to be growth areas in the medium term. In the recent
past agro-industries (food processing, etc.) accounted for about 25? of SMI
investments, and substantial capacity expansion in this sub-sector is expected
in rice and flour milling, oil extraction and ice and cold storage for the
fishing, poultry and cash crop sectors. Also, significant levels of investment
are expected in the handling, storage and processing of fruits and vegetables
for domestic and export markets. Growth in the ancillary sectors supporting
the garment sector, which accounted for about 56? of manufactured exports, is
expected to be sustained in response to continued investments, and to the
GOSL's industrial strategy aimed at increasing the value added content. In
light engineering, the investment level of about 20? will probably continue,
concentrating in engineering workshops, in response to faster urbanization and
industrialization and, to a less but growing extent, export opportunities.
With the privatization of the passenger transport sub-sector under IDA's ERC
and an assessed need of some 2,500 new buses, high demand for new vehicles is
expected from small private road transportation companies. The number of SMI
units owned or operated by women, particularly in the garment, handicraft and
food processing industries, is increasing, and the financial and technical
support given under ongoing IDA operations would continue.
1.16      Export Market Prospects.  There has been increasing product and
market diversification away from textiles and handicrafts, demonstrated by
exports of leather products, fashion garments and processed marine products,
fruits and vegetableb to newer markets including Europe and the Middle East.
Also there is some evidence that the level of short rin, small quantity export
orders is growing rapidly, with the number of firms exporting small quantity
orders (i.e., under Rs 100 million--US$2.5 million--per year) increasing from
400 in 1980 to about 1,600 in 1990. The outlook for further growth in SMI
exports appears promising, provided that appropriate policy and institutional



support are developed. However, a deflciency In the present export development
is the dlffused and multi-focused role of the Export Development Board (EDB)
which, according to the findLngs of a recently completed study under IDA's
Third Small and Medlum Industries (SMI III) Project (Cr.1860-CE), is now ln
need of rationalization and reorientatLon. A related instLtutLonal problem is
the lack of prlvate sector instLtutions wLth strong marketlng skills which
could asslst small producers ln export market development. These aspects are
being addressed, albeit slowly, under GOSLs ongoing program of trade and
industrial policy reforms, and some progress has been made to develop marketing
strategies in sub-sectors with hlgh potential export growth.
1.17      Past Investment.  The major source of prlvate sector credit has been
from commercLal banks. From December 1980 to December 1990, loans and advances
from commercial banks nearly quadrupled ln real terms. Howeyer, a large
portion of the credit went for trade, particularly imports." Industrlal
credit represented about 25Z of total commerclal bank advances at December 31,
1990; while short-teim advances continued to dominate, medium- and long-term
credit showed an increase in share, from 20.OZ of industrial advances at
June 30, 1980 to 34.1 by December 31, 1990.
1.18      GOSL has initiated a number of measures to fse flitate growth in
industrial and export credit for both small and large scale industry. Since
January 1980, the Sri Lanka Export Credit Insurance Corporation has provided
facilities for pre-and post-shipment credit, and the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
(CBSL) has continued to refinance commerc=al ban'l term loans to small, medlum
and large scale enterprises which export at least 202 of their output value.
Additionally, under IDA's Flrst Small and Medium Industries (SMI I) Project
(Cr.9M2-CE) GOSL allowed a significant difference in repayment terms for the
Ape;. Agency, the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB), and the
institutions to which NDB onlent the funds, to enable NDB to supplement
multilateral agency funding of SMI operatlons.
1.19      Investment Demand.  With sizeable growth projections for agro-
industries, light engineering, construction, prlvate transportatlon (bus)
services, as well as in a range of export-related lines, demand for investment
credit by SMI8 is expected to remain strong. Against this background, and on
the basis of planned operations by the domestic commercial banks and the
development financlng institutions (DFIs), projected $HI term investment
requirements during 1991-93 are conservatively estimated at US$200 million (an
additlonal US$50 million has also been identified as needed for restructuring
of medium sized industrial units following GOSL's tariff reform measures as
part of lts ongoing program of trade regime liberalization). The estimate does
not include fixed asset investment funded through the rollover of short term
(i.e., one year) overdraft facilities nor does it reflect a possible increase
in demand for funding by returning emigres fleeing the Gulf States as a result
of the political disturbances in that area. After provislon of a minimum 252
equity contribution from the sponsors, finuncial intermedLaries would provide
up to 302 of loan needs, leaving a flnancing gap of about US$100 million
(para. 3.6).
1,   Advances for commercial purposes represented 401 of total advances at
December 31, 1990.



C. The Financial Sector
The Institutional Framework
1.20      The Banking System.  In parallel with the liberalization of trade and
industrial policies, GOSL has opened up the financial system to private sector
and foreign participation. From a tightly controlled system of nine financial
institutions in 1977, the system has expanded significantly and has become
quite sophisticated. It now consists of the National Savings Bank (NSB), three
private and two public domestic comiercial banks, two DFIs, four regional agro-
industrial development banks, 13 foreign banks, including a number of major
international banks, and about 120 other bankin.Lifinancing institutions. There
are six money brokers who operate in the i1tr.4 wk/secondary market. In
addition to the institutions monitored by tbU'  atral Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL),
there is an active unofficial market with e it and lending rates higher than
official rates.  The two state-owned comet.  s. anks (SCBs)--the Bank of
Ceylon (DOC) and the People's Bank (PB)--c'--Ct-  ehe comnercial banking
system, accounting for approximately 80Z of ahl 'stitutional lending to
industry. Their lending operations are primarily short-term, with about 502 of
lending going to commerce and 25Z to industry. BDeause of operating
inefficiencies and high levels of non-performing assets, their lending margins
are relatively high (62-8Z). Most of the SCB resources come from deposits,
which account for 752 of the system's total deposits, with few deposits of a
maturity of 12 months or longer.
1.21      Financial Institutions.  The non-bank financial institutions involved
in providing services to the industrial sector include finance companies.
ieasing companies and two merchant bank. The merchant banks have not been
active mainly due to the slow development of the securities markets. However,
because of the tax advantages of leasing, financing and leasing companies have
developed rapidly; presently more than 50 finance companies offer hire purchase
finance. Six leasing companies, including Lanka Orient Leasing, in which IFC
has a shareholding, also provide term financing. These institutions have grown
rapidly by offering high interest rates on deposits and lending for consumer
goods and transport equipment rather than for industrial plant. However, in
1989-90 several large finance companies faced solvency problems and were
encouraged by CBSL to merge or close. Overall, the number of finance companies
has been reduced from 72 to 20 and further reductions are taking place. CBSL
control over the financing houses was strengthened in early 1989 with the
establishment of a Department of Supervision for Non-Bank Financial
Institutions.
Financial Sector Issues
1.22      Although the financial sector in Sri Lanka has been substantially
liberalized since 1977, and the structure of the sector has become quite
sophisticated, a July 1986 IMF/IDA Financial Sector mission noted that there
were a number of significant constraints to the sector's efficiency. These
included, inter alia: (a) distorted interest rate determination; (b) directed
resource allocation; (c) excessive levels of intermediation costs; (d) a
shortage of long term investment resources; (e) a weak regulatory environment;
(f) inadequate credit discipline; and (g) an undeveloped capital market.



1.23      To address these issues, GOSL initially deregulated the administered
interest rates and, pending the development of a more market determined alloca-
tion of funds, introduced the use of the averaged weighted prime lending rate
as the market reference for term lending operations. Additionally, to reduce
intermediation costs, CBSL established uniform and lower reserve requirements.
This liberalization, and the resulting more competitive environment, placed a
considerable strain upon CBSL's supervision capabilities and highlighted the
need to strengthen banking regulations. Action in both areas was taken and, as
noted below, further steps are under development. Additionally, to improve the
efficiency of the system, GOSL enacted legislation to rationalize the opera-
tions of the securities markets, consolidating the two stock exchanges which
had not operated effectively and, with help from the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), also attempted to
stimulate greater securities activity and the development of primary and secon-
dary markets in government securities by increasing the tax incentives for
share placement, reforming the system of underwriting and developing new
investment vehicles. In 1988. a new Banking Act was introduced, which required
all banks to meet the following conditionst (a) a minimum capital ratio of 42
of banks' liabilities, including interbank and contingent liabilities; (b) a
minimum liquid asset requirement of 202 of liabilities less liabilities to the
CBSL and shareholders funds; (c) a limit on lending to single borrowers cf 302
of capital funds; (d) limiting maximum individual shareholdings to 152; and
(e) no lending to directors except with the approval of the Monetary Board.
Additionally, revised regulations under the Finance Companies Act require
minimum capital for finance companies of SLRs 5 million and a minimum capital-
to-deposit ratio of 10X. The latter ratio is to be replaced by a 12Z minimum
risk-asset-based measure of capital in 1991. The minimum liquid asset require-
ment has beet. set at 15X of deposits and an additional 62 of deposits have to
be placed in approved securities--CBSL securities and treasury bills--lodged
with CBSL. These actions were supported in February 1990 by steps to remove
legal constraints to debt recovery through legislative approval of a compre-
hensive package of debt recovery measures.
1.24      However, recent GOSL efforts to expand industrial development, and
the findings of IDA's 1990 Financial Institutions Study (FIS) have reconfirmed
the continued existence of these constraints and highlighted the need to
develop a strategy for the reform of the sector to: (a) bring its operational
policies and procedures more into line with international standards, particu-
larly the Bank of International Settlement (Basle Accord) guidelines; and
(b) to improve its operational efficiency, objectives which raise a fundamental
issue for GOSL to resolve, i.e., the nature of the intervention necessary to
achieve the objectives.
Toward a Sectoral Strategy
1.25      GOSL and CBSL are aware of the distortions that exist within the
sector and are working closely with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), ADB,
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), IFC and IDA to
develop a program of policy, procedures and institutional reform to address
them. GOSL's primary objective is now to build on the earlier actions and the
findings of the FIS to improve the sector's efficiency. It plans to accomplish
this objective by the implementation of a phased program of sectoral reform
which will cover: (a) the rationalization of monetary policy; (b) refining
refinancing and reserve requirements; (c) strengthening of bank supervision and



- 9 -
regulatory requirements; (d) introduction of International standards of
financial disclosures (e) restructuring of the SCBB; (f) the rationalizing and
restructuring of NSB; (g) the privatisation of NDB and the reduction of SCB
shareholdings in the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) to CBSL
guideline levelst (h) the rationalization of the legislative, regulatory and
institutlonal structure of the state insurance corporations; tl) the
strengthening of the accounting regulatory framework; (j) the strengthening of
the capital market; (k) monitoring the impact of debt recovery legislation
enacted in 1990 as the basis for lntroducing further actions, if necessary; and
(1) evaluation of the proposal to establish a Sri Lanka Export Development Bank
(SLEDB).
1.26      GOSL envisions that the proposed program should enable Sri Lanka to
move gradually but steadily toward a more competitive market based system wlth
indirect controls, a larger private sector role, as well as increased autonomy,
commercial orientation and management efficiency for the financial institutions
that remain under government control. The areas noted above represent an
indicative outline of the reform program. As detaLled discussions take place
in seeking further agreement on the recommendations of the FIS, and as
experience is gained in implementing the requirements of ADB's Financial Sector
Program Loan (FSPL), the program will be modified to reflect relative
priorities and the absorptive capacity of the system to implement the changes
proposed.
1.27      While all the elements of the reform program are important and would
make a significant contribution toward addressing the many problems faced by a
number of financial institutions in the system, GOSL is concerned that the
system does not have the resilience to cope with the iLmediate implementation
of such a comprehensive program, a concern shared by IDA. Accordingly, GOSL
proposes to implement the reform program in phases, taking up a number of
measures under the PSPL approved in November 1990, with a second round of
action under a proposed ADB/IDA SHI Project, and with a further and more
comprehensive round of actions to be initiated under a proposed ADBIIDA Banking
Sector Reform (BSP) Project scheduled for appraisal in late FY92. In this
regard GOSL has already provided IDA with a detailed indication of its policy
objectives for sectoral reform (Annex 2). Within this framework, the actions
proposed under SHI IV are noted below.
1.28      CaDital Adequacy Regulations.  As noted above (para. 1.23), a new
Banking Act was passed in 1988 which established a number of capital adequacy
guidelines. Since then, GOSL has given considerable thought to the need for
the capital adequacy ratlo to better reflect that the fundamental role of
capital is as a safeguard against unanticipated losses; losses which relate to
the risks on the asset portfolio. Accordingly GOSL has introduced a full risk
asset based measure of capital adequacy which is being adopted by all private
domestic and foreign banks within an agreed timetable, and which would be
implemented for the SCBs as part of a proposed major operational restructurLig.
1.29      Loss Provisioning on Non Performing Loans.  In May 1987, as part of
the process of moving to an asset risk related capital adequacy ratio, CBSL
required all banks to follow new guidelines for loan classLfication and loss
provisioning. These required that advances on which interest or capital
payments were in arrears for six months should be classified as delinquent,
with a suspension of interest accrued on such advances. However, this guide-



10 -
line was not accompanied by specific provisioning requirements or the suspen-
sion of interest that had already been taken into profits. In February 1991
CBSL issued new, more rigorous loan classificatLon and provisioning guidelines
for banks under whichs interest accrued would be suspended and loans segregated
as non-performing when payments are in arrears for three months; loans in
arrears for six to twelve months should be classified as substandard with a 201
provisioning requirement; loans in arrears for 12 to 18 months should be
classified as doubtful with a 50 proviLsioning requirement; and loans in
arrears for over 18 months should be classified as loss with a 1OOZ provi-
sioning requirement. Provisioning for substandard and doubtful loans would
take into account the quality of coliateral. In addition, any loan in arrears
that appears as doubtful or a lose, based on the financial condition of the
borrower, would be so classified regardless of the period of delinquency.
Public sector borrowers would be treated on an equal footing with private
borrowers. All banks are required to meet these new standards by December 31,
1992.
1.30      Accounting Regulations and Financial Disclosure.  To bring the
financial reporting of the banks into line with International Accounting
Standards, GOSL recently gazetted Part V of the 1988 Banking Act, which
provides a legal framework relating to accounting and financial reporting. The
Act has been strengthened by the issuance by CBSL of prescribed formats for
reporting, both to CBSL and as the basis for public disclosure. Additionally,
appropriate amendments would be made to the Act (Section 39181), in particular
to extend the audit requirements to public corporations.
1.31      Interest Rates.  After an 8S inflation in 1986-87, inflation rose to
141 in 1988, declined slightly to 11.6Z in 1989, and as a result of the removal
of subsidies under the ERC (Cr.2128-CE) and the effects of the Gulf crisis is
presently about 151 p.a. (based on the Colombo Consumer Price Index) although
this is not expected to be a continuing level. Apart from this exceptional
situation, interest rates have remained generally positive in real terms.
However, GOSL's interest rate and refinancing policies, which favor directed
credit and subsidized sectoral support, have led to an interest rate structure
affected by a number of anomalies, includings (a) an administered interest rate
structure with wide ranges in lending and deposit rates, with some deposit
rates exceeding lending rates; (b) inadequate liquidity in some financial
institutions; (c) high reserve requirements for banking institutions side by
side with unregulated financing institutions; and (d) priority for Government
resource mobilization over private sector financing. As of March 31, 1991
fixed term deposit rates, which follow the levels set by the NSB, ranged from
16S for three month deposits, to 18.51 for the limited amount of two year
deposits. Comparatively, lending rates are relatively high, with term loans at
18S-242 and working capital loans 162-252 (Annex 3). This reflects CBSL's
restrictive monetary policy and the high spread requirements of the SCBs to
meet GOSL tax requirements and to service the cost of funding significant
levels of non-performing investments, and action by the private sector banks to
take advantage of the SCBs' need for large spreads.
1.32      The constraining effect of high real interest rates on economic
activity has been compounded by the absence of sustainable long term resources
mobilized by deposits, debentures or other instruments. Currently, CBSL's
refinance schemes and GOSL's policies for providing loag term financing for the
SCBs and DFIs results in a cost of funds, some 62 below commercial bank long
term deposit rates, which allows term lending operations below commercial bank
prime short term lending operations. As a further step to address these



- I1 -
distortions, GOSL and CBSL plan to increase the role of market forces in term
lending rate determination by using an average weighted cost of interest-
bearing term deposits as the basis for onlending donor funds to financial
institutions (para. 4.3).
1.33      Restructuring the State Coaercial Banks (SCBs).  Under IDA's ongoing
lines of credit, two major international consulting firms specializing in
banking operations are carrying out operational reviews of the SCBs with a
primary focus upon the quality of the portfolios and the operational structure
and policies of both institutions. The portfolio reviews have been completed
and indicate the need for both institutions to make significant provisions
(SLRs 5.0 billion for BOC and SLRs 3.0 billion for PB) to cover possible
losses. The required provisions (which are In line with accepted international
practice) would result in a negative net worth for both institutions, making
them technically insolvent. To address this issue, GOSL is developing and
proposes to initiate a comprehensive restructuring program which would be
supported by operational changes to ensure that the SCBs are made viable an" lo
no have to be recapitalized again within two to three years. Key elements ig
the program would include: (a) accounting for appropriate provisions for bad
and doubtful debts; (b) infusion of additional equity by GOSL; (c) conversion
of loans from GOSL into equity; (d) a prohibition on dividends until the SCBs
have met CBSL capital adequacy requirements; (e) closure of small duplicative
branches; (f) elimination of subsidized, directed lending; and (g) prohibiting
lending to any defaulters. A number of these requirements would be incor-
porated into an actio. program to be implemented as a condition for SCB
participation in SMI IV. The program would include, inter alias (i) an audit
of the SCBs' 1990 accounts by an international public accounting firm with
extensive experience in the audit of commercial banking, appointed under TA
Opiggy-backed" to ADB's FPSL (this is now underway); (ii) adoption of financial
reporting standards required by CBSL by December 31, 19911 (iii) compliance by
December 31, 1992 with CBSL's provisioning guidelines; and (iv) development of
capital restructuring proposals for the SCBs based upon the findings of the
1990 audit (Annex 2).
1.34      The Role of the DFIs.  Despite the initial concept of self-
sustaining, multi-service institutions, DFIs involved in the Project, namely,
DFCC and NDB, have remained dependent on GOSL and the multilateral donors for
funding, and until recently, have focussed their activities on term lending,
making them particularly vulnerable to macroeconomic changes and increased
competition engendered by GOSL's financial sector liberalization. Recent
diversification programs initiated by both DFCC and NDB under IDA's Second and
Third Industrial Development Projects (Cr.1692-CE and Cr.1948-CE) have
attempted to address these concerns. However, two issues are still out-
standing. First, there is a need to develcp a clear plan for broadening the
resource base (e.g., through mobilization of term deposits, bond issues,
capital subscription by new shareholders, etc.) and activities of both
institutions. Diversification of activities by both institutions has been
constrained by the level of GOSL's shareholdings in NDB and the SCRs8' share-
holdings in DFCC. Divesting GOSL's shares in NDB and the SCBs' in DFCC would
be in the spirit of reducing the public sector's role in the economy.
Secondly, a large number of senior staff have left both institutions for better
opportunities outside Sri Lanka or to other institutions in Sri Lanka. A major
cause for such departures is the decreasing competitiveness of the government-
dictated DPI salary and benefit structures, which are now significantly below



- 12 -
those of their prLvate sector competitors. Additionally, NDB is subject to
GOSL controls over staff recruitment, whilch constrains their operating flexi-
bility. The reform program (para. 1.25) to be initiated under the proposed SMI
Project would address these issues. GOSL has confirmed lts commitment to such
a program including the privatization of NDB, and its intention to set a limit,
similar to that of the Banking Act, on the holdings of any individual company
or group in the shareholding of DFCC, (para. 7.1(d)). TA is being provided to
NDB by Al3 to evaluate its assets and liabilities as a first step toward
establishing a sale price for its shares, which would be sold to the public or
other financial institutions. DFCC's plans for operational and resource
mobilization diversification were also confirmed during negotiations.
1.35      The Role of Insurance Companies.  The present legislation covering
the insurance industry does not allow for a ready integration of the industry
into the evolving financial reform program. Thus, there is an urgent need to:
(a) review legislation and regulations in order to bring them up to date and
responsive to an atmosphere of financial liberalization; (b) examine insti-
tutional arrangements to enuure competition on equal basis, and ensure greater
competition without artificial restraints and market segmentation; and
(c) substantially strengthen the office of the Controller of Insurance. GOSL
has requested IDA's assistance to carry out a brief diagnostic study of the
problems (including the legislative and regulatory framework), as well as to
determine the longer term technical assistance needs (perhaps in the form of an
expatriate Advisor) for the Controller of Insurance (para. 3.7(b)).
1.36      Debt Recovery Measures.  With the aim of providing financial
institutions in particular, with expeditious and effective procedures for debt
recovery, a package of amendment to Sri Lanka's debt recovery legislation was
passed by Parliament in February 1990. Thirteen separate Bills were involved
touching, inter alia, on parate execution and accelerated and simplified
procedures for litigation in the District Court, including service of summons
and substitution of parties. The reforms originated from recommendations made
by a number of committees, including a 1989 committee of Sri Lankan commercial
and banking law experts, assisted by an international expert in commercial law.
Following Parliamentary discussions, the recommendations were not adopted in
toto. At the request of IDA, the international expert (assisted by banking
sector officials) reviewed the amending legislation in August 1990, and has
indicated measures to monitor and strengthen the debt recovery process.
Specifically, emphasis has been placed on the importance of strengthening the
capabilities of fiscals (including the appointment of private sector fiscals)
and in the execution of court orders.
1.37      GOSL has already given undertakings under ADBI's FSPL to take
appropriate remedial action by November 30, 1991, aimed at improving debt
recovery procedures generally, and has established a "Monitoring Committee,
consisting of senior Government and banking sector legal officers to review the
impact of the various amendments passed earlier this year on debt recovery
performances. Taking into account lessons learned as a result of this review,
GOSL will, furnish to ADB and IDA, by November 30, 1991, a report setting out
the actions that are necessary to strengthen or complement the debt recovery
legislation that is now in place (para. 7.1(a)). A set of the present
legislation and a summary of interim reports identifying measures to strengthen
the debt recovery process is held on the Project File.



- 13 -
1.38      Credit Information.  Lack of available information on defaulters has
been a major weakness on enforcing credit discipline. COSL recognized this and
a credit information bureau as established in July 1990 under the Credit
Information Bureau of Sri Lanka (CIBSL) Act No. 18 of 1990. It is 512 owned by
CBSL, 30X by commercial banks, and 19X by other financial institutions. It is
presently staffed with CBSL employees and will receive technical assistance
from ADB under the proposed ADBIIDA SMI Project. Initially, CIBSL is estab-
lishing a data base for loan defaulters with balances in excess of Re 500,000.
As the data base is established, CBSL will give consideration to prohibiting
the extension of expanded credit facilities to defaulters identified by the
bureau without getting the permission of the bank holding the loans in default,
or using the extended credit to pay off amounts due to that bank. Exceptions
could be made in cases where there are legal disputes involving small portions
of loans outstanding. GOSL feels that this action will send a message to
defaulters that one cost of defaulting would be a sharp curtailment of access
to additional credit. Once the message has been communicated the prohibition
might be waived.
D. The Environment
1.39      Since January 1984, the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) has the
legal mandate to carry out environmental impact assessments (EIAs) on private
and public development activities likely to have significant adverse bio-
physical and social impacts. However, it is only recently that the CEA has
become active in pursuing GOSL's environmental protection policies. On July 1,
1990. mandatory licensing for new and existing industrial units became
operative, and existing enterprises were given up to three years, i.e., until
1993, to conform to the CHA guidelines for their particular industries. More
recently, the CEA has established a cadre of monitoring staff, but given the
number of new applications to be processed and existing units to be monitored,
the CEA faces an enormous task to ensure compliance with its regulations. CEA
also supervises the work of a number of agencies, including MIST, MHTI and
MAiID, on environmental assessment of specific development projects. While
large scale industry or known polluting industries offer visible t          for
monitoring and control, in the area of small scale enterp,.ises it is more
difficult to monitor and enforce environmental guidelines since they are
numerous and scattered. However, since aggregate pollution from SMIs may
exceed pollution from large scale industries, and since SMIs can also produce
toxic waste, it is important for the CEA to develop a capacity to assess and
monitor their environmental impact (para 3.7(b)).
1.40      IDA is committed to assisting GOSL and the CEA develop an
economically efficient environmental management strategy for the industrial
sector as a whole, rather than focus narrowly on pollution control. In this
context, IDA is working closely with the CEA to develop an Environment Action
Plan for Sri Lanka which links the objectives of industrial growth and environ-
mental protection (para 5.19). The proposed Colombo Metropolitan Environmental
Improvemeut Plan (MEIP), funded by the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) and executed by IDA, would also support GOSL's environmental management
efforts which would have a sector-wide and nation-wide influence, since most of
the industrial activity is currently in and around Colombo. HEIP would
concentrate ons (a) analyzing the ecological characteristics of metropolitan
Colombo in order to develop a land use and water quality management strategy;



- 14 -
(b) strengthening the pollution monitoring and enforcement capability of
agencies mandated with that function In and around Colombol and (c) developing
pollution controL efforts focused on major industrial estates in an area like
Ratmalana.
II. THE BANK GROUP'S INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL LENDING STRATEGY
A. Past OperatLons
2.1       The promotion of Sri Lanka's industrial and financial sector has long
been an objective of IDA's sectoral pollcy. This has been considered necessary
tot create an alternative stable source of growth and employments strengthen
the balance of payments through the growth of exports and import substitutest
and strengthen financial institutions as intermediaries for development
financing. Prior to 1977, IDA pursued its limited industrial and financial
sector objectives through four operations channelled through DFCC. However,
after 1977, IDA's lending operations progressed from direct financial inter-
mediation to a multi-institutional financlal sector approach, with operations
channelled primarily through two specialized DFIs--DFCC and NDB--for medium-
sized industry and through these institutions and selected commezcial banks for
SMI investment.
2.2       In 1979, IDA approved the first of lts more sectoral focused opera-
tions (the FLrst SMI Project--Cr.942-CE) using the project as a vehicle to
initiate the preparatory work for policy and institutional reform programs.
This was followed by a series of five further operations which alternated
funding for SMI operations with that for large scale industry. Each project
supported the development and implementation of major components of the
Government's evolving program of trade and industrial reform (para. 1.5).
Credits for SMI development approved in 1979, 1982 and 1987 were channelled
through DPCC, NDB and the commercial banks, and three Industrial Development
Projects (IDPs) for large scale industrial investment and important elements of
policy reform, approved in January 1984, July 1986, and June 1988, were
channelled through DFCC, NDB and several commercial banks. These ten
operations represent a transfer of resources of about US$350 million in nominal
prices. Apart from the Second SMI Project (Cr.1182-CE), which was affected by
civil disturbances in the Southern Provinces and initial problems with loan
pricing, all the projects have been disbursed ahead of schedule, with a
combined cumulative collection rate of 82.5Z or more. The SMI projects have
been instrumental in creating some 65,000 jobs at a relatively low capital
cost, particularly in areas of non-traditional exports (e.g., garments).
2.3       Performance under the TA components has been satlsfactory.  Support
for policy development has resulted in the issuance of a comprehensive ISS for
the country and an open environment of trade and industrial operations.
Project implementation support has resulted in the phased introduction of the
reform programs without major dislocatlons in the operation of the economy,
while the institutional development programs have resulted in the diversifi-
cation of operations of Lhe DPIs, the involvement of the commercial banks in
project term lending operations, and a steady supply of trained staff for the
new banks that have emerged with the removal of restrLction in the financial
sector. Currently, GOSL and the implementing agencLes are In full compliance
with covenants under the ongoing projects.



- 15 -
2.4       Completed Prolects.  PCRs and PPARs for the pre-1977 operations
(l.e., Ln.520-CE, Ln.634-CE and Cr.565-CE and Cr.742-CE) noted that the
operations bad provided valuable insights into the working of a small DFI and
financial intermediary operation in an expanding liberalized financial system.
The PPARs indicated that Bank Group financing was particularly important in the
development of the industrial sector and had helped catalyze the programs of
trade and industrial policy reform that were to come. The most recently
completed industrial development projects (SMI I and II--Cr.942-CE and
Cr.1182-CE--and IDP I--Cr.'401-CE) focused mainly on the initial actions
necessary to develop the tariff reform program, rationalize the industrial and
export incentive structures, improve the overall operational viability of the
country's two DFIs and broadening the number of financial intermediariec. A
February 13, 1991 OED report--*World Bank Support for Small and Medium Industry
in Selected Countries'--noted that the Sri Lanka SH projects have generally
succeeded in attaining the anticipated flow of credlt to the target group of
borrowers, although where funds have moved slowly (e.g., SMI I) this has been
due to Mepressed business conditions, and not to any faulty assessment of
particuslar demand or of PCI capacity.  The ORW report also noted that the SMI
projects generated a high level of resource .4ditionality. The report noted
that while the SMI projects have had a mixed record (depending upon the
perceived objective, i.e., access to credit, policy reforms or institutional
strengthening), they have worked well enough to allow future operations to
build on past achievement, broadening coverage and fine tuning.!' Thus, the
proposed Project draws upon the various findings of the earlier PCRs and the
ORD report and has incorporated action to address the concerns raised
specifically on the Sri Lankan operations.
B. Current Sectoral Strategy
2.5       The main thrust of IDA's current lending In support of the industrial
and financial sectors (in addition to meeting long-term foreign exchange needs)
is two-folds to establish a better policy framework, and to strengthen institu-
tional efficiency. In the area of policy reform, a comprehensive phased
program of trade, industrial and financial policy reform is being implemented
which focuses on tariffs, import liberalization, rationalization of export
incentives, a review of the industrial incentive structure, privatization of
the PMEs, implementation of GOSL's recently issued ISS, and financial sector
efficiency. To date, significant progress has been achieved In implementing
the reform program, but considerable difficulties remain. Notwithstanding
GOSL's stated commitment to the program, its political ability to take effec-
tive action is constrained by the continuing civil disturbances with their
debilitating impact upon the economy. However, GOSL is continuing to implement
many of the proposals, including the introduction of a four-band tariff system
w'th significantly reduced levels of tariff protection on a wide range of
productslindustries. Export and industrial incentives still need rationali-
zation and improvement, but there is not a clear consensus in the Government on
how best to proceed with this. Progress on public enterprise refonm has been
slow. However, under the recently approved Public Manufacturing Enterprises
V    An earlier 1989 Industry Sector Paper (No. 20): 'World Bank Lending for
Small and Medium Enterprises: Fifteen Years of Experience', noted that the
SMI projects in Sri Lanka ranked among the most successful of the 70
operations reviewed in 36 countries.



_ 16 -
Adjustment Credit (Cr.2185-CE), a first phase of actions has been implemented
to privatize or close selected units with further divestment under consider-
ation. There is a need, however, for a detailed program of actions to support
the ISS to ensure consistency of industrial policy decisions. Discussions with
GOSI in the context of the recent ERC and future industrial sector lending hold
out promLse of such a program; however, the desire for consensus within GOSL
portends slow progress in its development and actual implementation.
2.6       In the area of improving financial sector efficLency, results have
been mixed. While DFCC and NDB are generally effective term lending institu-
tions, they have some problems. Because of heavy investment in tourism prior
to the civil disturbances, both face collection problems, although this risk
has been eased by a GOSL moratorium on the repayment of loans to support their
tourist loan portfolio and by the recent return to profitability of a number of
hotel operations. Both need to diversify their sources of funding and the
range of their activities to compete more effectively in the financial system.
More fundamentally, these instltutions are still being integrated into the
financial system, depending heavily on GOSL support and conducting their
operations under interest rate structures that make it impossible for them to
raise domestic resources on a commercial basls. These problems are being
addressed at least in part with TA under IDP II (Cr.1692-CE). Under the IDP
and SMI projects, IDA has also developed successful programs of lending through
the commercial banks for industrial operations.  With TA from the ongoing SMI
projects, the commerclal banks are further developing their capabllities to
appraise both large and small scale industrial projects, and IDA financing for
such projeets is now being channeled through the two DFIs and an increasing
number of private sector commercial banks.
2.7       The FIS (para. 1.24), which has supplemented the ongoing operational
revLews of the SCBs under SNI II and III, has focused upon the financial
system's efficLency and has recommended strengthening the capital market,
expanding the Treasury Bill Market, changing reserve and capital requirements,
and introducing institutional reform. This revlew has provided a sound basis
to develop a strategy for reform. However, more preparatory work is needed and
ADB ls also working closely with IDA in thls regard. As noted in para. 1.27,
IDAIADB will take up a number of the sectoral issues in the proposed FY92
cofinanced Banking Sector Reform Project.
C. Future Lending Operations
2.8       In line with the World Bank's evolving policies relating to financial
sector operations, IDA's financial intermediation operations in Sri Lanka have
become more sectorally oriented, with an increasing emphasis upon the viability
of the system and its institutions, and a greater delegation of subproject
investment revlews. In parallel wlth the change in focus, the criteria for
subproject eligibillty have been modified to move the lines of credit from
directed credit operations to general capital investment funding operations.
In the case of the SMI operatlons, this approach is reflected in the expansion
of access to credlt funds to DFIs and commercLal banks, and the expansion of
sectoral eligibillty from purely industrial financing to the financing of
investment in any productlve enterprise. This move was lnitiated under SMI I
and has been gradually strengthened under each successive operation.  This
change has been timed to enable GOSL's industrial development policies to be
adapted accordingly, and GOSL has been advised that the proposed SMI project



- 17 -
would most probably be the last of the  SMI-directed credit operations, with
future operations providing funding for development generally.  Under such an
approach, a major objective of future IDA financial intermediation operations
is to support a program of action to achieve already agreed industrial and
financial sector objectives for Sri Lanka. The strategy's basic objectives are
to: increase private investment activity, improve the environment for export
industries, reduce the protection of the domestic market, adopt a more dynamic
approach to public sector operations, and improve tha allocation of financial
resources.
2.9       These strategic objectives indicate clearly that IDA views its
involvement as a multi-faceted one, with individual operations considered in
the context of an integrated approach to address sector issues and priorities.
Two operations are presently planned to achieve some of these objectives:
(a) The proposed SHI IV Project, which would focus on action tos
Mi) address some of the major issues identified by the recent FIS,
including the need to reduce the costs of commercial bank inter-
mediation and improve the quality of commercial bank risk asset port-
folios through appropriate provisioning policies; (ii) support the
ongoing trade policy reform; (iii) resolve policy issuea affecting
SMI operations; (iv) provide needed financial assistance to SMI
entrepreneurs through the financial system; and (v) support the con-
tinued institutional development of the PCIs, upgrading their collec-
tion capabilities to enhance their operations and financial
viability. With its focits on financial sector efficiency, the
Project would represent a key step in setting the framework for
significant reform in the financial sector. TA under the Project
would extend assistance to SMI entrepreneurs to improve the produc-
tivity of their operations, and would continue the reform program in
the area of trade and industrial reform; and
(b) A proposed Banking Sector Reform Project (PY92), based inter alia on
the ongoing reviews of the SCBs (para. 1.33) and the operational
diversification of the DFIs under IDP III and SMI III, aimed at
introducing policy, procedural and institutional reforms in the
banking sector.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Concept, Obiectives and Scope
3.1       Concept.  With an absence of long term investment funding in the
financial sector, the rapid utilization of funds umder ongoing IDA projects,
coupled with a strong demand for balancing, modernizing and rehabilitation
(BMR) financing from existing SMI entrepreneurs, and demand for investment
funding for new and expansion projects, GOSL requested the accelerated
processing of SMI IV, which had originally been scheduled as a FY94 project.
Additionally, GOSL requested IDA assistance for the funding of the operational
restructuring of private sector units, particularly in the light engineering
and textile sectors which would be affected by the reduction in tariff levels
scheduled under the tariff reforms agreed with IDA under IDP II and III.  In
parallel with these reforms, changes being implemented under the ERC and the



- 18 _
Public Manufacturing Enterprises Adjustment Credit (Cr.2185-CE) to privatize
the operatlons of the transport (bus) systems and the textile sector have
generated funding needs by the new owners to carry out BMR of the privatized
units. GOSL's request for funding coincided with an ADB proposal to provide a
second line of credit for SMI financing and it was agreed with GOSL and ADB
that the project should be processed in parallel on similar terms and
conditions. Joint preparation, appraisal, and negotiations were carried out
and project documentation shared wLth ADB,
3.2       In developing the project concept, the opportunlty was token to
address a number of concerns raised by OND's review of SMI operatlons
(para. 2.4) and to: (a) increase access to the project funds by opening the
credit to all financial instltutions which meet the conditions of eligibility5
(b) further liberalize interest rate determ"ation; (c) initiate action to
improve the overall efficiency of the banking system; and (d) reduce signifi-
cantly the directed credit aspects of the earlier SMI projects by opening the
credit to all productive enterprises under the UN Standard Industrial
Classification of Economic Activities and increasing the eligible project size.
However, in this regard, given the predominance of small and medium scale
enterprises in the Srl Lankan economy, most of the credit funds will be
absorbed by this type of enterprise. ADB and IDA worked closely with both GOSL
and NGOs, e.g., Chambers of Industries, Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, involved in
enterprise financing and entrepreneurial development. The cotments from these
organizations and from past, present and potential future users of the
project's funding were incorporated into the project design.
3.3       Obiectlves.  IDA's lending for industry since 1977 has been
successful in supporting a program of broad trade, industrial and financial
policy reform, upgrading financial institutions, and improving GOSL instl-
tutions' systems and procedures supporting industrial development and financing
of high priority investment projects. The proposed Project would continue this
approach, focusing on the need to improve the efficiency of the financial
sector, and in turn its ability to channel funds effectively for industrial
development. Thus the Project has three major objectivess
(a)  to deepen IDA's dialogue with GOSL on issues affecting financial
sector efficiency and to (i) develop the basis for an agenda of
restructuring actions in the context of ADB's FSPL and ADB's and
IDA's proposed FY92 BSP; (ii) continue TA support for institutional
upgrading of DFIs, the comercial banks, and RRDBDS and (iii) improve
lmplementation of debt recovery policies and procedures, including
support for the recently established CIBSL;
(b)  to provide support to GOSL to: (i) improve Customs and Excise
policies and procedures; (Li) reorient its export development
policies and procedureas (iii) remove bureaucratic constraints to
establish new enterprises, and formulate appropriate SKI development
policies and prograums and (iv) assist the CEA and PCIs to introduce
sub-sectoral/lindustry environmental impact assessment guidelines in
the investment approval process; and



- 19 -
(c) assisting GOSL achieve its ISS objectives by providing funding for
viable industrial projects, particularly SMI projects, and providing
new and existing entrepreneurs with financial assistance to use
specialized local or foreign TA to improve the overall efficiency and
productivity of existing operations or to develop business plans for
new enterprises.
3.4       Discussions with GOSL have emphasized the importance of the ongoing
programs of trade and industrial policy reform and improving financial sector
efficiency, focusing on the actions most feasible in an environment of
continuing political uncertainty and severe budgetary and balance of payments
constraints (e.g., establishing appropriate relative incentives between
producing for exports and the domestic market and productivity improvements in
the public sector). The Project would focus on the continued analysis
necessary to develop proposals for financial sector reform, especially on
measures tot (a) increase the role of market forces 1n the determination of
interest rates; (b) reduce SCBs intermediation costs; (c) improve credit
discipline and reduce the level of the financial systems' non-performing
assets; and (d) improve the quality of financial sector reporting.
3.5       Scope.  To meet these objectives, the proposed co-financed project,
would have a credit component for investment financing in most productive and
related service sub-sectors of the UN Standard Industrial Classification of
Economic Activities, and a TA component to support policy and institutional
de7elopment and project implementation.
B. The Credit Comionent
3.6       An estimate of potential demand for investment financing has been
made based on SMI subproject applications already under corsideration by the
PCIs, conservative assumptions regarding the sector's gr-wtL rate and the
anticipated increase in investment needs following the return of Sri Lankans
from the Gulf followlng the recent conflict. Taking theue into account, plus
investment needs arising from the denationalization/privaiiation of the light
engineering, textile and transport sectors, and anticipating levels of
international and domestic inflation, total FY91-FY93 .Invef tnt funding is
conservatively estimated to be US$200 million. Based on pa-v: SMI operations,
PCIs and SMI entrepreneurs will provide about 502 of these nvvestment needs
from their own resources or through the domestic capital mark t and, through
GOSL, the balance of about US$100 million from multilateral ngvncies. The
proposed IDA project is part of the mobilized funds, with US.4A,O million for
subproject financing. An additional US$30.0 million would be provided by ADB
through a parallel line of credit together vith separate but related TA grant
of US$350,000.
C. The Technical Assistance Component
3.7       The TA components of the previous IDP and SMI operations provided
funding for a series of studles leading to trade, industrial and financial
policy reform and to improvemente in specific areas of industrial and financial
sector development, including SMI service facilities, process and product
development, training, promotion and extension services, and operational
upgrading and diversification of PCIs. Overall, the programs have been effec-
tive and to continue these operations, US$5.0 million of addLtional TA is



- 20 -
proposed to build on this foundation, although additional TA funding may be
required for the SCB restructuring programs. This would be complemented by the
US$350,000 of TA from ADB for institutional support for CIBSL and assistance to
the SMI Coordination Committee to review SMI development policies and
strategies. TORs and implementation timetables for the various components
(Annex 4) have been confirmed with GOSL. The selection of consultants would
follow the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers.
Implementation of the various components would be monitored by IDA and ADB
during the course of supervision missions and all programs would be subject to
an annual review.  To enable the SMI Coordinating Committee and NDB to react to
changing demands, particularly as a result of the implementation of GOSL's
tariff and financial sector reforms, use of the TA funding will be monitored
closely and, if appropriate, reallocated to areas of emerging higher priority
needs. Present allocations are:
(a) US$3.5 million for institutional development includingt
(i) training programs and system and procedural reviews for NDB and
the PCIs; and
(ii) continuation of the operational reviews of BOC and PB
(para. 1.33).
(b) US$1.0 million for policy development to enable GOSL to:
(i) reorient investment and export promotion policies and procedures
(paras. 1.5 and 1.17);
(ii) improve custom and excise policies and procedures (para. 1.6);
(iii) review the legislative and operational structure of the insurance
industry and to develop appropriate reform measures (para. 1.35);
(iv) review the impact of the ISS and the proposed financial sector
policies upon industrial development; and
(v) develop and implement sub-sectoral environmental protection
policies (para. 1.39).
(c) US$500,000 of proiect implementation support to enablo GOSL and the
PCIs to provide short term design and implementation assistance to
new and existing SMI enterprises (para. 1.12).
D. Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
3.8       The aggregate cost of projected subproject operations, based upon an
evaluation of projects in the PCIs' pipelines, and related technical assistance
is estimated at US$1451n million, of which IDA would finance US$45.0 million,
or about 311. IDA financing would be used for the subloan component for SMI
subprojects and for TA. Sponsors would contribute a minimum of 252 of sub-
project costs, while ADB/IDA and the PCIs would share the debt requirements in
the ratio of 70:30. The estimated costs and detailed financing plan are shown
belows



- 21 -
Estimated Costs: 1/
Loe.l  Foralon  Total   Loal  foreln  Total   x
------(RemlI                (USMTon)-._    -
Subprojects                    2,600.0 2,300.0 6,400.0  06.0   70.0   185.0  52
Technical Assistane              200.0  200.0  400.0   6.0    5.0       7.0  s0
2,300.0 8,000.0 5,300.0  70.0   75.0   146.0  52
Financing Plan:
AO.                                    1,200.0 1,200.0        30.0      80.0  21
Entrepreneurs                  1,400.0        1,400.0  86.0            86.0
OOSL                             200.0          200.0   5.0             5.0
PCIX                           1,200.0        1,200.0  80.0            *0.0
IDA                                    1,300.0 1,300.0         46.0    45.0  $1
2,800.0 8,000.0 5,300.0  70.0   76.0   145.0  62
I/ Amounts and percentages may not agree due to rounding to nearest full amount.
IV. THE CREDIT
A. Terms and Conditions
4.1       The proposed credit of SDR 33.3 million (US$45 million equivalent),
including the lending component of US$40.0 million equivalent and the TA com-
ponent of US$5.0 million equivalent, would be made to GOSL on standard IDA
terms and conditions, with 40 years maturity with a grace period of 10 years.
The credit is expected to be fully disbursed in five years. GOSL would onlend
the proceeds of the credit component to NDB at the Average Weighted Deposit
Rate (AWDR) on interest-bearing term deposits prevailing at the time of credit
effectiveness (para. 4.3). GOSL would onlend to NDB in Rupees. As final
relending rates would be market determined (para. 4.3) and indirectly reflect
the foreign exchange risk, and as CBSL controls the foreign exchange market,
GOSL would bear the direct foreign exchange risk in the margin between the cost
of IDA funds and the onlending rate to NDB. NDB would pay interest to GOSL on
the Rupee amounts of the credit component disbursed and outstanding; repayment
to GOSL for the lending component would be on the basis of a fixed amortization
schedule. NDB would also be responsible for administering disbursements for
the TA component, the bulk of which would be preallocated. The proceeds of the
TA component would not be repayable to GOSL, since these are development
expenditures geared to increasing sectoral efficiency, productivity, output and
exports.
B. Subproject Eligibility
4.2       Subprojects eligible for financing would involve investment in, but
not to be limited to, new SMI operations or for balancing, modernization,
rehabilitation/restructuring (BMR), or expansion of most of the existing
productive or related service enterprises covered by the UN Standard Industrial



- 22 -
Classification of Economic Activities (exceptions would include wholesale and
retail trade and personal services, etc.). All subprojects vould need to be
licensed by the CEA, financially viable, and PCIs would continue to assess
whether a subproject would improve quality, price competitiveness, or provision
of goods or services for which demand has been established. The PCIs will also
incorporate simple indications of economic impact in their subproject
appraisals, inclueing expected fixed costs per job created, and percentage of
local raw/manufactured materials utilized. For more comon subprojects the
PCIs will use standard project profiles for reference. Proposed and actual
investment of IDA funds in any one sub-sector (at the four digit level of the
SITC) of 12.5? of the total credit would trigger a joint NDB/IDA review of
sectoral performance and a possible limitation on further IDA lending to the
sector concerned. Additionally, financing of buses would require approval of
the legislation to deregulate bus tariffs as agreed under the ERC (Cr.2128-CE).
C. Subproiect Financing by PCIs
4.3       Lending Terms.  Credit funds would be onlent by NDB to the PCIs at
the Average Weighted Deposit Interest Rate (AWDR). The AWDR is defined as the
weighted average of the interest cost on all interest-bearing term funds
including savings accounts, fixed deposits, certificates of deposits, of the
Greater Colombo branches of the domestic commercial banks (excluding the NSB)
adjusted by foregone interest on CBSL reserve requirements at the time of
credit effectiveness, and as periodically revised by CBSL. Based upon the mix
of interest-bearing term deposits held by the domestic comercial banks as of
December 31. 1990, the effective AVDR was about 13.7Z compared to the present
onlending rate of 12.5 based upon AWPR. The higher rate is reasonable in view
of medium-term inflation projection of 8Z-lOZ for the next three years
(para. 1.33) and present commercial banks' term deposit rate of 1IZ-25S. A
rolling six month AWDR will be computed by CBSL for the period April 1-
September 30, and October I-March 31, with adjustment to the lending rates on
January 1, and July 1, of each year.  The AWDR is proposed as the interest rate
reference point pending the maturity of CBSL's Treasury Bill market, which was
established in 1987, or the determination of some other appropriate market
related reference. The Treasury Bill market has developed into a sizable
market, but Treasury interventions through a second Otap window has not
allowed the Treasury Bill rate to become a fully reliable market rate.
Considering the financial sector globally and the adverse effects of GOSL's
crowding out of the market through the issuance of Defence Bonds at high rates
and NSB's September 1990 round of deposit rate increases, a real liberalization
of interest rates has yet to occur and for the time being the AWDR is the best
proxy for an open market marginal cost of funds. During negotiations it was
agreed with GOSL that: (a) the indirect cost (in the form of non or low
interest-bearing reserves maintained with the CBSL) would be included in the
formula base; (b) there would be a phased semi-annual increase of not more than
0.5Z from the AWPR to the AWDR spread over three years; and (c) the mechanism
for establishing interest rates and spreads would be reviewed on January 1 and
July 1, with appropriate adjustment as necessary (para. 7.1(b)). The lending
rates to be charged to NDB and the PCIs respectively would be amended on
January 1 and July 1 to reflect any significant movement in the systems deposit
rates, and remain positive in real terms vis-a-vis long term inflation rates.
The PCIs would be free to charge sub-borrowers a market determined interest
rate on subloans financed under the project, with rates either fixed or



- 23 -
variable based upon agreement between the PCI and the sub-borrover. Subloans
on which no disbursements have been made for 12 months would be reviewed and,
when appropriate, canceled to facilitate project completion and promote full
utilization of the project funds.
4.4       Repayment Terms.  NDB would repay GOSL on a fixed amortization
schedule of 15 years with a five-year grace perlod. The maturlty of subloans
financed by the PCIs would be determlned by the PCI based upon the merlts of
the subproject, but would not exceed ten years inclusive of a maximum two year
grace perlod. Overall, the subloan commitment perlod would be about three
years and repayments by the PCIs could stretch over 13 years. The PCIs would
make thelr repayments to NDB on the basls of an aggregate of indivLdual subloan
amortlzation schedule. However, because of the DFCC's sigiifLcant resource
mobilization constraints, lt would be glven access to the aredLt on the same
terms as NDB.  On the repayment schedule proposed, about US$20 million would be
added to the SMI float adminlstered by NDB by the estimated date of final
disbursement of the subloan component. The llquidity bullt up wlthin the SMI
Fund as a result of the maturLty differential between the repayment terms will
be utilized solely for financing further ellglble PCIs' SMI projects when the
funds from the ongoing SKI projects and the proposed Project are fully
committed.  This principle has been agreed by NDB and incorporated into its
Statement of Policies and Procedures fcr the SMI Fund. Additionally, except as
may otherwise be agreed between GOSL, ADB and IDA, NDB as the apex agency will
not be able to access these funds for direct SMI lending.
4.5       Subloan Sizes and IDA Revlew.  Except as noted, subproject
eligibility would be limited to enterprLses which comply wLth GOSLIIDA
environmental guldelines and with total fixed assets at book value, excluding
owned or leased land and buildings, valued at less than Rs 8 million
(US$200,000) prior to the granting of a subloan (this is the current IDA
definition).   The maximum subloan size would be Rs 8 mllion.  However, on a
case by case basls, subloans above this level and below Re 20.0 milllon
(US$500,000) for restructuring of industrles affected by GOSL's trade policy
liberalization, would be considered by NDB, and IDA informed of such cases.
For any subloan request above Rs 20.0 milllon (US$500,000) prior IDA approval
would be required. Working capital financing would be allowed only as part of
a fixed investment subloan and for permanent working capital needs since
seasonal working capital financing ls available from other sources.
4.6       Subproiect Financing.  A minimum of 25Z of subproject costs should
ideally be provided by the sponsor in the form of equity to encourage sound
capital structuring, although the actual equity requirement would be determined
by the PCI on a case by case basis. Experience under the ongoing SHI
operations indicates that sponsors' contributions are usually higher at about
30Z of total project costs. To encourage the PCIs to become more independent
in SMI financing through resource mobilization (i.e., deposits or debenturm
issues) on the open market, NDB reimbursement of subloan financing would be
decreased from the current 752 to 70Z. On this basls the maximum IDA subloan
financing would be Re 5.6 million (US$140,000). This will be subject to an
ongoing review.



- 24 -
4.7       Subproiect Review.  About 5,000 subprojects with an average subloan
size (inclusive of PCX contribution) of about Re 0.7 million (US$18,750) would
be financed. In view of the large number and relatively small sizes of
subloans, simplified review and approval procedures would be used to limit
administrative costs and processing times. The implementation of SMI 1-111 by
the PCIs, with the assistance of NDB, has demonstrated their capability to
select suitable project sponsors and to appraise and supervise SMI sub-
projects. Thus, under the proposed Project, the PCIs will be given delegated
authority (i.e., free limit) of subloan sanctioning appropriate to their
quality of appraisal and end use operations. NDB's staff would carry out ex-
post reviews to check the eligibility of subprojects, financial viability, and
the adequacy of proposed subloan terms, and would also perform sample analyses
to ensure that appropriate appraisal standards are being maintained on smaller
subprojects. Except as noted in para. 4.5 above, NDB would be given full
delegated authority to approve subproject applications under the Project.
About 801 of subprojects, by number, are expected to be for amounts below Rs
0.5 million (US$12,500).
D. Technical Assistance Funding
4.8         The TA component of US$5.0 million would be passed to the user
agencies as a non-repayable development grant. TOR for the proposed assistance
and an indicative allocation of the funds is shown in Annex 4.
V. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Responsibilities
SMI Coordination Committee
5.1       Closely linked to the use of both investment and TA funds for SKI
operations is the need to coordinate SMI policy development and ongoing SHI
operations. Under SKI III, the role of an SKI Policy Coordinating Committee
established under SMI II changed from that of TA subproject coordination to
overall SMI policy development and review. To achieve this vital role, the
Committee was restructured to include the Secretary, MIST (Chairman), the
Secretaries, MHTI and MTRID (or their designated representatives), represen-
tatives from CBSL, EDB, NDB, and the SKI Chamber of Commerce and PCIs. The
Secretary to the Committee is provided by the Ministry of Finance. The
Committee was to receive quarterly reports prepared by NDB on the use of SMI
funds, examine operational or coordination problems, and make recommendations
to GOSL on improving efficiency in policy implementation. Implementing
agencies were to channel authorization requests and reimbursement claims for
expenditures directly through NDB for reimbursement/disbursement or to IDA; in
exceptional circumstances NDB could provide bridge financing from t]Ke SKI Fund
for TA expenditure. This Committee, which was inoperative during the 1989
Hinisterial reorganizations, has been reactivated and, as under SKI III, in now
coordinating the activities of the implementing agencies which would be
expected to carry out their specific activities and responsibilities autono-
mously, within the framework and objectives, guidelines and procedures agreed
between GOSL and IDA under the Credit and Subsidiary Loan agreements. Under
the proposed project, membership of the Committee would be expanded to include
the CEA, which now issues operating licensing for all new enterprises, and



- 25 -
representatives from the Federated Chamber of Commerce and the PCIs. In line
with the Committee's objectives to rationalize the regulatory aspects of SMI
development (para. 1.6), the initial findings of the Commission on Bureaucratic
Controls should be available for discussion with GOSL by December 31, 1991 and,
if necessary, TA would be provided for a more extenslve review of the legis-
lation noted above, and to assist GOSL Implement the Commission's recommen-
dation. The interim findings of the Committee would be discussed with GOSL
during the first annual project review after credit effectiveness (para. 5.23).
The Apex Agency
5.2       Under previous SMI operations, MDB had been the automatic choice as
Apex Agency because of the quality of its SMI staff and their term investment
appraisal capabilities; attributes that were being developed in the commercial
banks. However, with the increasing involvement of the PCIs in term lending
operations, NDB is now *supervising' the operations of a number of its most
active competitors, which raises a significant issue of conflict of interest.
This situation is recognized by GOSL and, pendLng establishment of an alter-
native administrative unit (e.g., within CBSL), NDB will be the Apex Agency for
the proposed project. MDB was established in January 1979 under the National
Development Bank of Sri Lanka Act with an authorized capital of Re 2.0 billion
and a subscribed capital of Rs 600 million. GOSL is the majority shareholder
owning 67Z of NDB's subscribed capital. Other shareholders are CBSL (172), BOC
(81) and PB (8X). In accordance with the NDB Act, GOSL bears the exchange risk
on NDB's borrowings from external (i.e., international) sources when required.
NDB is managed by a Board of Directors consisting of six members who are
nominated by the Shareholders. Following the completion of a study in 1989,
NDB restructured its organization to improve efficiency and diversify
activities. As of December 31, 1990, NDB has a staff of about 160 consisting
of 80 professional and 80 support staff.
5.3       NDB's operations are governed by its Act and Operational Policy
Statement, which are satisfactory. Project lending has been the predominant
activity of NDB, although it is also active in equity investment, syndication,
underwriting, guarantee and discounting. As of December 31, 1990, NDB's total
assets were about Rs 5.5 billion, of which 80? was in long-term loans. The
collection performance on the portfolio has been satisfactory (about 80X) and
NDB has made full provision against all loans i arrears. NDB's approvals
increased by an average of 19? annually from FY8S to FY89; total approvals have
doubled in amount reaching Rs 1.8 billion in FY89 and have doubled again in
FY90 with approvals of about Rs 3.0 billion. NDB has maintained a reasonable
profitability (although this has been supported by government guarantees on its
sizeable hotel portfolio, limiting the need to make provisions for possible
losses on these investments), a sound financial position and adequate liquidity
as required by the covenants under IDA's IDP and SMI projects and has also
demonstrated satisfactory capabilities in effectively administering the SMI
projects of ADB and IDA. To further enhance NDB's institutional efficiency,
GOSL's commitment to NDB's privatization has been covenanted under ADB's FSPL
and IDA has reviewed and agreed GOSL's indicate plans and timetable to amend
NDB's establishing Act and to divest its shareholdings in NDB (para. 7.1(d)).
A detailed analysis of NDB's operations is contained in the Project File.



- 26 -
5.4       NDB would onlend the Project proceeds to eligible PCIs, monltor thelr
SMI operatlons and recycle the repayments from subloans under ongoing opera-
tions for further SKI operations. These actlvities would be administered by
NDB's SKI department which also carrLes out the admlnLstration and reporting
requlrements of ongoing ADB and IDA SKI projects. NDB would also administer
the use of TA funds on behalf of the SMI CoordinatLon Coud ttee. To cover the
costs of these activLties, NDB will be reimbursed by GOSL by way of an annual
fee equivalent to 1.0 of the credit amount dlsbursed and outstanding, wlth the
rate subject to annual revlew and adjustment. The sLgning of the subsLdLary
loan agreement, reviewed during negotlatlons, and acceptable to IDA between
GOSL and NDB would be a conditlon of effectiveness of the IDA Credit
(para. 7.2(a)). As under SKI I-III, NDB would not be able to use the IDA funds
or the reflows on IDA-funded SMI operations for its own operations. Separate
accounts would be kept by NDB to account for Project operations and for the use
of the reflow float resulting from the deliberate mismatching of repayment
maturities for NDB vs. PCIs and a separate opinlon on the utilization of the
reflow would be provided by the AudLtor General of Sri Lanka (AGSL) or another
Lndependent auditor satisfactory to IDA.
5.5       NDB's SKI operations are organized into six main sections.  Profes-
siLonal staff consist of a manager, six section heads, six analysts and nine
other office_s. The Analysis and Review Sectlon reviews PCIs' appralsals and
refinance applications. The Reporting and LiaLson Section prepares periodic
reports on the credit institutions' lending, supervlsion and collection perfor-
mance. The Finance and Disbursement Section disburses refinance, collects
repayments, administers SMI project funds for the technical service components
and maintains accounts. Three other sections are responsible for monitoring
and supervision, training, and sub-sector analysis. However, NDB is having
considerable difficulty in recruiting and retaining senior staff due to the
exodus of experienced staff from Sri Lanka and to other institutions
(para. 1.35). During negotiations the issue of the decontrol of NDBI's
remuneration structure was discussed with GOSL in the light of the proposed
privatization and it was decided that no major changes would be taken until
privatization was completed.
5.6       Despite staffing problems and higher than expected SMI operations,
NDB's performance in administering ongoing SKI projects has been satisfactory.
As anticipated, the emphasis has been on developing procedures, reviewing
reimbursement applications, and upgrading PCIs' appraisal and end use standards
through formalized training programs. NDB has also made subproject review more
systematic by: establishing norms for key aspects of appraisal, including
appropriate levels of permanent working capital, land, and buildings; 'reparing
sub-sector analyses to avoid over investment and to identify market oppor-
tunities; and investigating sources of appropriate equipment.
5.7       The present Statement of Policies and Procedures for the SKI Fund
covering the use of the reflow from PCIs to the Fund, which is acceptable to
IDA, was reviewed and reconfirmed durlng negotiations (para. 7.1(e)). The
Statement specifies the Fund's objectives, function, organization and staffing,
work program and reporting requirements under the proposed project. Any future
modification would require prior GOSL/ADBIIDA approval.



- 27 -
Participatina Credit Institutions (PCI.)
5.8       The implementation of the first three SMI projects by the PCI., with
the assistance of NDB, has demonstrated PCI capability for selectLon of
suitable project sponsors and for appraising and supervLsing SI subprojects.
Subject to fulfilling the conditions of participation to be agreed with ADB and
IDA, the PCIs participating under SKI I1--BOC, Commercial Bank of Ceylon
(CBOC), DFCC, Hatton National Bank (HNB), PB, Seylan Trust Ba* (STB), Sampath
Bank (SB), and the RRDBs at Rurunegala, Kandy and Kegalle--would continue to be
the PCIs responsible for SMI lending under the project, although any financial
institution (local or forelgn) accredited by the CBSL or the Ministry of
Finance which meets the eligibility conditions (para. 5.12) could apply to
participate. Based upon limited assessments arising from the operational
review being carried out under SMI III and IDP III, the adjusted financial
position of the SCBs would not meet CBSL's guidelines for financial viability,
nor the conditions of participation noted below, and they would not be eligible
to participate in the project unless a corrective action program is initiated
by GOSL to address their financial weaknesses. Given the importance of the
SCBs in the financial system and because the non-SCB network does not have the
absorptive or distributive capacity of the SCBs their exclusion would signl-
ficantly undermine the prospects for the future viability of the system and for
the effective implementation of the Project. Accordingly, in line with GOSL's
policy for financial sector reform (para. 1.25) it was agreed during negotia-
tions, that GOSL would develop individual phased programs of operational and
financial restructuring for each SCB based upons (a) the ongoing TA program for
each SCB; (b) the portfolio reviews carried out under SMI III and IDP III; and
'c) the findings of the audit being carried out under ADB's FSPL (para. 7.1(f)).
A summary of PCI ownership, organizational and staff data as of December 31,
1990, is given below. Individual PCI reviews are contained on the Project
File.
Ownership, Organizational and St-ff
Data for the PCI* at Docember 81  1990
soC     Pe     HNB    SB       S8 Cs   C    DFCC
Ownership
Government                  100     100     0   11.6      0 4           s9
Private                       0       0   100  69.4    100       26   286.
Foreign                       0       0     0      0      0      40   82.4
No. of Branch-e                 241     808    85      0      12     10       0
No. of Staff                  10,892  10,080  1,700   200    6S0   1,800    105
No. of (full time) SMI Staff     99      48    20      8      2       9      12
A    Oovern mt ownership ts lndirect.
5.9       Each PCI has an appropriate organization and staff strength for their
operations. All PCIs, except the RRDBs, have well-developed staff training
programs and facilities, and satisfactory attention has beev paid to staff
requirements of SMI operations. The six commercial banks presently partici-
pating in the SMI project follow sound operational policies and procedures
conforming to conventional commercial banking practice. Host of their
resources are derived from deposits and most of their lending is in short-term



- 28 -
loans. DFCC on the other hand operates as a conventional DFI with most of its
resources obtained from external sources such as ADB, IDA and other bilateral
agencies, while most of its assets are in the f 4Um of term loans. Key
financial and operational data of the major PCIs are noted below.
Key Financial and Operational Data ot PCIs
An o! Sgt"b.or to. 190
BOC   PO    HN      ST   So     COWC    DFCC
Tte l Assets (Re BillI,j)        42.0   $9.6   5.7    2.0    8.7    5.6       2.9
Owners' Equity (Re Mili on)        1.1    0.6   0.4    0.2    0.2    0.6       0.8
Not ProfIt (Re Millon)           1t2    176    76    81    20    148        112
Return on Equlty (X)               12    29    22    15    10.8   29          29
SMi Operations:
SMI PortfolIo (Re Millon)        492    $68    51      -     60      76     821
Cumulative Collection Ratio (X)    02.8   08.8  94.9    -     65.0   94.0    94.9
Annual Collection Ratio (FY89) (X)  60.4   64.2  65.7    -    84.4   87.0    77.0
Principal Infection Ratio (X)     18.6   7.0   8 .      -      6.8    4.0    14.3
Source: NDB and PCIs
5.10       All PCIs, except the SCBs, have adequate debt/equity ratios while the
SCBs have high financial gearing and are in need of equity infusion. All
private PCIs have acceptable financial positions and levels of profitability.
The lower return on equity of Sampath Bank (SB) is due to exceptional expenses
in 1989 for setting up a computerized operational and management information
network. Both the SCBs have been restructuring their organizations based on
consultant's recommendations under IDA TA. The improvement of their portfolio
quality and capital structure is being addressed through ADB TA under the FSPL
which requires GOSL and the SCBs to prepare a phased program of financial
restructuring, taking into account the ongoing rehabilitation program.
5.11       With their extensive branch network and existing SHI clientele, the
SCBs have been the most active contributors to the SHI operations. The two
institutions accounted for about 65Z of the total SMI portfolio outstanding.
Due to their smaller branch network and more corporate oriented activities, the
private commercial banks have only 132 of total SKI loan outstanding. However,
in recent years the private commercial banks have become increasingly active in
SMI lending. With their high collection ratio and low principal infection
ratio, they are expected to contribute to further improving SMI operations.
PCIs' management has committed to further expanding SMI lending activity.
5.12       Given the close inter-relation of the short term (commercial) opera-
tions and the term lending activities of the PCIs, it is inappropriate to set
eligibility criteria based upon SMI activities alone. The financial viability
of the institution as a whole and the strength of its operating structure
should be taken into account. Detailed eligibility criteria have already been
agreed under IDP III (Cr.1948-CE) which will also apply to this Credit,



- 29 -
together with the minimum eligibility criteria agreed during negotiations
(para. 7.1(g) and Annex 8). These will vary slightly to reflect the particular
structure of each PCI, but in all cases the Participation Agreement between NDB
and the PCI must be acceptable to the Association, including, inter alias
(a) satisfactory compliance with the CBSL's guidelines ont capital
adequacy; provisioning policies; and financial disclosure, particu-
larly the classification of risk assets;
(b) achievement of a positive net profit after taxes;
(c) maintenance of a positive rate of return upon average total assets;
(d) maintenance of an appropriate level of SMI operational staff. Based
upon a review of present staffing, the number of SMI Fund/PCI staff to
receive foreign and local tra. ing under the Project would also be
agreed during negotiations; anu
Ce) achieving and maintaining an annual and cumulative collection level of
at least 702 and a portfolio infection rate of not more than 202 under
ongoing SMI projects. Thereafter, PCIs will be required to achieve
annual and cumulative collection levels of at least 752 by
December 31, 1991, and 802 by December 31, 1992. A review of a PCI's
participation will be triggered if it fails to achieve these levels.
The review will concentrate on calculation of break-even collection
levels, based on the PCI's spreads, terms of its subloans, admini-
strative costs, and the opportunity cost of the PCI's own funds. If a
PCI still fails to achieve target collection levels after six months,
that PCI will be suspended until such time as it demonstrates that it
can maintain minimum collection levels and do so in a sustainable
manner. The initial maximum term lending portfolio infection level of
202 must be reduced to not more than 152 by December 31, 1992.
Collection performance and portfolio infection status will be revieved
semi-annually by ADB and IDA.
5.13     As of December 31, 1990, most of the PCIs were in compliance with
CBSL's guidelines, or were implementing actions to achieve them. All PCIs were
in compliance with the conditions of participation under the ongoing SMI
projects. As a conditlon of effectiveness (para. 7.2(b)) at least three PCIs
should have established their eligibility to participate in the project by
meeting the conditions noted above and by signing participation agreements with
NDB, which were discussed and agreed during negotLations.
Central Bank of Sri Lanka
5.14     Provisioning Guidelines (Non Performing Loans).  As noted in
paras. 1.29 and 1.30, details on the financial viability of PCIs has been
clouded by inadequate financial reporting and provisioning against non-
performing loans. These issues are being addressed through the recent iLsuance
of provisioning guidelines by the CBSL. In this regard, it was confirmed
during negotiations (para. 7.1(h)) that:



- 30 -
(a) NDB and DFCC have carried out a portfolio review with minimum loss
provisioning equal to the following: (i) loans in arrears three months
or more, classified as non-performing, and accrual of interest sus-
pendedg (ii) loans in arrears for six to twelve months should be
classified as substandard with a provision of 252; (iii) loans in
arrears for one to two years should be classified as doubtful with a
provision of 50S; and (iv) loans in arrears two years or more
classified as bad with a provision of 1OOZ2 and
(b) PCI loans financed by ADB or IDA under ongoing or future operations,
can only be rescheduled twice, thereafter, full provision in
accordance with the provisioning guidelines would be required.
5.15     Credit Guarantee Scheme.  Under IDA's SMI I, the CBSL established a
credit guarantee scheme to provide rartial coverage of eligible SMI subloans.
The major objective of the scheme was to promote lending to potentially viable
SKI projects but with inadequate collateral to offer as securities for term
loans. Lack of adequate collateral has been a prime hindrance to the provision
of term loans to SMIs in the past, particularly within Sri Lanka's difficult
debt recovery environment. Under the scheme, all subloans have been
automatically covered for the 402 to 602 of individual subloan amount, with the
rate of coverage differing by the size of the subloan. The guarantee fee is 12
of the principal portion covered by the scheme payable by the PCIs.
5.16     Although the scheme has been operated successfully and has been
adequately funded to date under current policies, there is a prospect that
given the relatively large total contingent liability when compared to the
accumulated cash balance, the scheme may fall into a cash deficlt. In
particular, the claims expected from the remaining hard core arrears under
IDA's SMI I may result in such a situatLon. Moreover, the PCIs have expressed
a need for greater guarantee coverage of smaller subloans because of the
particular difficulties of obtaining viable collateral for such lending.
5.17     Based upon a September 1990 CBSL/ND8 review of the scheme's operations
and to give a signLfLcant degree of coverage. for high risk, small loans, it is
proposed that coverage up to a maximum of Rs 1.6 million would be provided as
follows: (a) 902 of subloans for subloans below Rs 0.5 million; (b) 802 of
subloans for subloans from Rs 0.5 million and below Rs 1.0 million; (c) 702 of
subloans for subloans from Rs 1.0 million and below Rs 2.0 million; and (d) 602
of subloans for subloans from Rs 2.0 million and up to Rs 8.0 million, subject
to a maximum coverage of Rs 1.6 million. Additional to the modified level of
funding, GOSL has given assurances that the coverage of the present scheme will
be extended to cover all ADD and IDA SMI operatlons.
5.18     To improve the operating efficiency of the scheme, the premium for
coverage will be paid quarterly in advance on the aggregate institutional
coverage. Additionally, to ensure the self-sustainability of the scheme, CBSL
has confirmed that it will provide the scheme with a grant of Rs 100 million
which vould be invested in long-term Treasury securities. Based upon the
current level of recoveries, premiums and income from securities, this amount
should be sufficient to ensure the scheme's vLability.



- 31 -
Central Environmental Authority (CIA)
5.19     The CEA will be responsible fort (a) establishing a project
environmental review process to include key agencies such as the commercial
banks, DFIs, and local governments; (b) developing technical capacity (i.e.,
consultant services) to help industries incorporate waste treatment and waste
minimizing measures in their process design; (c) identifying financial require-
ments for industrial waste abatement; and (d) supporting the development and
implementation of CEA guidelines and standards for selected industrial sub-
sectors. To minimize any delay in the project approval process, the PCIs would
be delegated  environmental cle'rance' authority of projects with no adverse
environmental impact, or for projects with a limited environmental impact after
the sponsor has agreed to appropriate refurmulation of the production process
to meet substantial emission standards or introduce appropriate prevention/
mitigation options. Projects with potentially diverse and significant environ-
mental impacts would require the CIA's positive clearance which would be given
within two months of submission to the CIA.  In cases which require CIA
clearance sponsors could access the TAP for funding to engage specialized
technical assistance to reformulate the project proposal to meet the CIA's
environmental guidelines.
B. Administration Procedures1J
5.20     Procurement.  For the credit component, the PCIs would be responsible
for ensuring that procurement is undertaken in accordance with established
commercial practices. Based on experience under the ongoing SMI projects,
established commercial procedures are considered satisfactory to IDA. The PCIs
would be required to maintain details of the procurement methods used by sub-
borrowers and to monitor the utilization of subloan funds for procurement
through regular site supervision visits; NDB staff and IDA field supervision
missions would continue to review implementation of these procedures. NDB will
also be responsible for administering the TA component. Under the TA
component, consultants would be retained by beneficiary agencies in cousul-
tation with the NDB and IDA. The selection of consultants would follow the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Contracts for
goods under the TA component are not expected to exceed US$200,000 each, and
would be for such small items as computers for training, overhead projectors,
precision labora-tory equipment, etc. Therefore, they will be procured
following local competitive procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Contracts
for goods costing less than US$50,000, and not exceeding US$1.0 million in
aggregate, may be procured through local shopping.
5.21     Disbursement Procedures.  As under the ongoing SMI projects, the
ci'sing date for submission co NDB of PCI financing applications under the
Project will be three years, with a projected five year disbursement period
after Credit effectiveness. NDB, through the SMI Fund, would reimburse the
PCIs for 702 of eligible SHI subloan expenditures. These expenditurelt would be
fully eliglble for reimbursement by IDA. With the large number and small
amounts involved in the subloan operations, normal procedures of disbursing
against documented expenditures on inlividual subproject accounts would be
1/ Annex 9 details the contents of the Project File which includes copies of
the PCI operating policies and procedures.



- 32 -
inappropriate for most subprojects. To facilitate reimbursement of expendi-
tures by the PCIs, NDB would reimburse the PCIs on the basis of proforma
documentation with full documentation to be submitted to NDB on final disburse-
ment. If the documentation is not provided by the PCI, the amount of unsub-
stantiated claims would be deducted from general reimbursement claims. PCI
documentation would be retained by NDB for inspection during IDA's supervision
missions. In turn, IDA would disburse on the basis of certified statements of
expenditure submitted by PDB for expendLtures incurred up to 120 days prior to
the reimbursement application, except during the bridge financing period
(para. 5.22).  However, subloans coiitted and disbursed from the SMI Fund
during the interim period after full commitment of ongoing SKI projects and the
effectiveness of the proposed Project, will not be subject to this restriction.
All statements of expenditure, together with supporting documentation, would be
audited annually by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka (AGSL) or another indepen-
dent auditor satisfactory to the Association. Prior authorization by IDA for
goods and services under the technical assistance components would be required.
and IDA would disburses (a) 100X of expenditures for foreign and local consul-
tants and training; (b) 1002 of foreign expenditures for equipment imported
directly and 1002 of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; and
(c) 802 of expenditures for other equipment procured locally. Requests for IDA
disbursement against contracts exceeding Rs 200,000 (US$5,000) would be fully
documented, while disbursement for contracts below Rs 200,000 would be made on
a SOE.  Withdrawal applications would he channelled through NDB.  To facilitate
disbursement of TA charges and payment applications of less than US$250,000,
GOSL/IDA vould establish a Special Account in US Dollars with an initial
deposit of about US$3.0 million.
5.22     Retroactive Financing.  As of December 31, 1990, ADB's SMI I and IDA's
SMI III projects were fully committed, at which time NDB, through the SMI Fund,
commenced to provide bridge financing to cover PCI refinancing requirements
until Credit signing which is expected by July 1, 1991. To cover any shortfall
in refinancing from the SMI Fund (which presently has a balance of about US92.0
million available) during this period, specific arrangements for US$3.0 million
each of retroactive financing from the ADB Loan and the IDA Credit will be made
to cover eligible disbursements incurred after December 31, 1990.
5.23     Prolect Honitoring and ReDortina.  As under the ongoing SKI projects,
the proposed Pro'ect would be subjected to a periodic monitoring of performance
against project objectives. This would be done through: the submission by NDB
of quarterly reports; the semi-annual review of the interest rate structure;
and a detailed mid term review in March 1992 of all aspects of the Project's
implementation, and in particular (based upon satisfactory implementation of
the restructure program) the eligibility of the SCBs to continue participation
in the Project. For the proposed Project, 13DB would submit a quarterly report
to MOP and IDA on the SMI Fund's lendi-g activities, as well as progress under
the TA components. The report would be an aggregation of the PCIs' quarterly
reports which would cover SMI staffing, training, lending, supervision, collec-
tion and arrears performance, and portfolio data. TA reports would summarize
implementation progress on aspects outlined in agreed action programs, steps to
be taken during the next quarter, and estimates of impact of activities on
employment, productivity and exports. In addition, NDB would submit a
quarterly report on the use of the SM reflows, SMI staffing, and evaluation of
characteristics of SMI sub-borrowers and Impact of subprojects. Reports would
have a form and content satisfactory to IDA and be accompanied by an overall
review of the SMI sector in Sri Lanka. Quarterly reports would be submitted
within 45 days of the end of each quarter.



- 33 -
5.24     Accounts and Audit.  As of March 31, 1991, all prospective PCIs
operated sound financial accounting systems and procedures and were in
compliance (where appropriate) with the reporting covenants of ongoing Credits.
As a condition of participation under SMI IV, they would be required to submit
audited financial statements, complying with CBSL guidelines, to IDA within
four months of the fiscal year end. Currently, GOSLIPCIs are in compliance
with requirements under ongoing SMI projects. Additionally, the AGSL, or a
designated private auditing firm, would submit a report in a form satisfactory
to IDA, not later than four months after the close of each fiscal year. on the
Project Accounts, together with a separate opinion on the use of the SMI Pund.
The audit and opinion on the use of the SMI Fund uould also cover disbursements
against Statements of Expenditure and the use of Special Accounts. Project
accounts of each implementing agency would also be audited. If the AGSL
designates a private auditing firm, the firm would need to be satisfactory to
IDA and would be selected for at least the duration of the project to ensure
continuity. Within six months of Project completion GOSL and NDB shall prepare
a draft Project Completion Report conforming to IDA guidelines.
C. Co-FinancinkR'
5.25     Preparation of the proposed project has been coordinated closely with
ADB which has proposed a parallel loan of US$30.0 million, together with a
separate but related TA grant of US$350,000. Preparation, appraisal and
negotiations were carried out jointly with ADS, and ADB has provided full
support for the conditionality of the IDA project and indeed in the broader
areas of trade, industrial and financial sector reform. To ensure an even
utilization of the Credit and ADB Loan, the Borrower will conmit the IDA and
ADB funds to the extent practicable, on a basis proportionate to the relative
contributions of IDAIADB. However, there will be no commingling of funds or
joint financing of any individual subproject. Although not part of this
project, ADB has provided TA to GOSL under its FY90 Financial Sector Program
Loan to fund the audits of the BOC and PB (para. 1.33).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       The proposed Project would further support GOSL's efforts to fine
tune its comprehensive trade, industrial and financial policy reform programs
through incremental, but significant, action in the areas of customs procedure
reform and removal of regulations required to establish new enterprises. The
Project would also support GOSL/CBSL'S efforts to improve the financial sector
efficiency and address key constraints to more rapid development of SKIs. Term
loans would be provided to about 5 000 new and existing enterprises, meeting a
significant portion of this sector's financing gap in FY91-PY93 and further
strengthening the PCIs' SKI term lending operations. The subprojects financed
are expected to result in about 25,000 new jobs, with incremental fixed invest-
ments (including buildings and equipment but excluding land) per job of about
1/ A copy of the ADB project document is held on the Project File.



- 34 -
US$6,250.1/ The average subloan size is expected to be about Re 0.9 million
(US$18,750). About 60S of the credit (US$19 million) is expected to be
channelled to subloans below Re 0.5 million (US$12,500); about 202 (US$6.5
million) for subloans of Re 2 million-4 million (US$50000-US$106,000); and 20Z
for subloans from Rs 4 million-6 million (US$100,000-US$150,000). The main
demand for funding is exTected from agro-industries, metal products, building
materials and construction contractors. However, with the privatization of the
transport sector there it expected to be a significant increase in the level of
funding for transport services. Promotional and technical services provided
under the ongoing SMI program and supplemented under the proposed project also
should result in increased financing oft export-oriented SMIs in rubber
products, handloom textiles, gem cutting and polishing; and engineering sub-
contractors linked to larger public and private industries.
6.2       Benefits from the technical assistance components are more difficult
to quantify. Rationalization of customs and excise policies and procedures
should provide an impetus to the development of both trade and industry by
facilitating imports and exports. Under the TA component, local private sector
know-how would be tapped to address the technical problems of SMIs in areas
which require specialized skills. Also, the use of TA would further encourage
establishment of private sector firms specializing in consultancy to SMI;
increase appreciation by small entrepreneurs of the benefit of TA; and enable
the SMIs to tap needed skills not readily available within their own opera-
tions. TA funds are also expected to be used significantly to restructure the
operation of SMI units affected by the further reduction in tariff protection
levels required under the EIC (Cr.2128-CE).
B. Risks
6.3       The success of the lending component would depend upon a climate of
political stability and on NDB's effective operation of the SMI Fund.
Satisfactory policies, procedure and standards for SMI operation of the Fund
have been established on the basis of experience; the key will be NDB's ability
to retain qualified staff and provide the level of training to support
expanding SMI operations, while increasing attention to monitoring and super-
vision of PCI.' SMI operations. A further risk is that the proposed restruc-
turing of the SCBes (BOC and PB), with their island-wide network of branches,
may not proceed on schedule, excluding them from the Project, thus limiting
country-wide access to the SMI funds. To address these concerns: implemen-
tation of the SCB restructuring program will be closely monitored; maintenance
of minimu levels of trained staff would be a condition of PCI participation;
and each PCI's Board would be required to reaffirm its couditment to allocate
add;.tional SMI staff as required. With strong senior management comaitment,
adequate staffing can be provided through active deployment and training.
Access to credit funds would be ensured through the involvement of both local
and foreign banks in the project.
V    This fixed cost per job figure is somewhat higher than the US$4,000 for
sub-prosects approved under SMI III, since the larger average sub-project
size and capltal goods inflation are expected to result in somewhat higher
fixed investments per job.



- 35 -
6.4       The proposed SKI IV Project would build on organizational arrange-
ments and capabilities developed under the earlier SKI projects. However, the
credit and TA components would require continued improvements in the services
of the PCIs, and frequent IDA supervision visits would continue to be important.
C. Areas of Special Emphasis
6.5       Environmental Impact.  As noted in para. 1.39, the operations of
small and medium enterprises are difficult to monitor since they are numerous
and scattered. However, the policy development and institutional support
provided under the TA component of the Project should enhance the capabilities
of the CEA to assess and monitor their environmental impact. With this safe-
guard, the overall polluting impact of SKI operations is expected to be
minimized, while the programs of environmental training and support for
industry generally should lead to a greater awareness of the benefits of
environmental protection.
6.6       Women in Development.  In keeping with the World Bank's policy of
fostering open financial systems, the project does not provide for directed or
allocated credit to assist women entrepreneurs. Direct and indirect access to
SMI funds by women entrepreneurs has been increasing with some US$8.0 million,
or 302 of subprojects, approved under SMI III. However, it is recognized that
there are still cultural barriers to a woman's access to credit and provision
has been made by the PCIs to provide facilities for project discussion with
women entrepreneurs. The Project is also expected to generate a significant
number of job opportunities for women, particularly in the textile and
electronics assembly areas.
6.7       Poverty Alleviation.  The Project does not target poverty groups
directly, but subprojects sponsored by cooperatives supporting low income
artisans and entrepreneurs are expected to be funded under the Project,
particularly through the branch network of the RRDBs. In this regard the
proposed project would be integrated closely with the proposed FY91 Poverty
Alleviation Project which focuses upon micro-enterprises and the unemployed.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOHKENDATION
7.1       During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOSL ons
(a) the submission by October 1, 1991 of a report (i) assessing the
initial impact of legislation passed in February 1990 to improve debt
recovery; (it) indicating subsequent actlons taken since the
legislation was passeds and (iLt) detailing recommendations, if any,
to improve the operations of the debt recovery legislation
(para. 1.37);
(b) the use of the average weighted deposit rate (ANDR) of interest-
bearing term deposits of the Greater Colombo branches of the domestic
commercial bank as the onlending reference rate for project
operations and to a semi annual review and adjustment of the
onlending interest rates on January 1 and July 1 (para. 4.3)1
(c) onlending terms, conditions, margins, subproject eligibility
criteria, and funding arrangements (para. 4.4-4.7);



- 36 _
(d) GOSL's proposals to privatize NDB and to reduce the share holding of
the SCBs in the DFCC (para. 5.3);
(e)  the Statement of Policies and Procedures for the SMI Fund and the use
of the SMI repayment reflovs (para. 5.7);
(f) the preparation of a phased operational and financial restructuring
program for the SCBs based upon the ongoing *international3 audit as
part of the conditions for their participation in the Project (para.
5.8);
(g) conditions of PCI participation (other than the SCBs), including
capitalization, financial viability, financial disclosure,
provisioning, collection ratios, portfolio infection levels, and
staffing (para. 5.12);
(h)  the provisioning policies to be adopted by the PCIs (including NDB)
on their term lending portfolios and by the DFIs on their overall
portfolio by December 31, 1991 (para. 5.14); and
(i) procedures for procurement, disbursement, subproject review, periodic
reporting, accounting and auditing (para. 5.20-5.24).
7.2       The following conditions should be met prior to Credit effectiveness:
(a)  signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between
GOSL and NDB (para. 5.4); and
(b) signing of participation agreements and demonstration of compliance
with conditions of participation, satisfactory to IDA, between    NDB
and at least three eligible PCIs (para. 5.13).
7.3       With the above agreements, the proposed Project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Development Credit of SDR 33.3 million (US$45 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



-37-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI IV) PROJECT
The Bank Group's SMI Operations
SMI I (Cr.942-CE)
1.        IDA's three SMI projects expanded the institutional coverage of
lending operations by assisting GOSL to establish new financing institutions
and using public and private commercial banks as intermediaries for term
financing in Sri Lanka. The projecte also addressed technical and marketing
constraints in major light industrial subsectors, supporting the promotion and
extension services of EDB and the IDB; and as*ssted GOSL develop the technical
foundations for the major reform of GOSL'e trade and industrial policies,
particularly in the area of tariffs, by fundLng effective protection and export
incentive studies. More specifically, SMI I contributed substantially to the
establishment of NDB, providing technical and institutLonal assistance in
support of its direct and SMI financing activities. The Project also provided
local and international traininj for some 950 loan officers and managers at
regional and branch level. Under the Project, about 1,745 subloans averaging
US$9,100 were approved, with fixed costs per job (excluding land) of about
US$1,500. Initially, commitment and disbursement of the credit component
proceeded well ahead of schedule but the ethnic disturbances, which erupted
during implementation, resulted in a number of subproject cancellations and
extension of the closing date to December 31, 1985 when US$900,000 of
unutilized technical assistance funds were canceled. Major subsectors financed
were: agro-industries, construction and bullding materials, and light
engineering. Random samples of subprojects indicate that most are operating
without notable technical difficulties. Given the inexperience of the PCIs and
NDB in SKI term lending operations overall collection rates of 77Z were very
satisfactory. As of December 31, 1990 a hard core of accumulated arrears of
principal and interest accounted for Rs 98 milLion (US$2.5 million) or 651 of
the remaining portfolio balance of Rs 152 million (US$3.8 million). Detailed
recovery programs are gradually reducing the amounts involved and action is
underway to write off the hard core of defaults. Progress under the technical
and marketing service component was slower than anticipated due to delays in
locating suitable consultants, constructing facilities and recruiting staff.
SMI II (Cr.1182-CE)
2.        Given the rapid initial utilization of credit funds under SKI I, the
objectives of SHI II (Cr.1182-CE), approved in June 1982, were to provide
needed foreign exchange, accelerate growth and consolidate productivity
improvements in SMIs, tapping the sector's scope for value added, low-cost
employment generation and export earnings. The Project provided US$28 million
equivalent, for the funding by NDB of 80 of the SKI term loans made by the
participating credit institutions (PCIs)--four commercial banks and DFCC. A
US$2.0 million TA component provided funds for (i) PCI staff training;
(il) improvements in SKI extension services; (iii) establishing an SKI
consultancy fund to tap local private sector expertise in solving problems of
SKIs; (iv) expansion of service facilities for light engineering SMIs; and
(v) export development including practlcal consultancy and training, sales
trips, policy studies and pilot projects involving exporters and export-
oriented manufacturers in key light industrial products.



-38-                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
3.        As of December 31, 1990, the credit had been fully disbursed.  This
was a little later than originally anticipated due to (i) an over-optimistic
assessment of demand at the time of appraisals (it) saturation of *easy SHI
subsectors in rice milling, construction materlals and other subsectors$
(iii) the effects of the ongoing ethnic disturbancess (iv) initial high level
of arrears under SMI Is (v) inadequate promotion of the project by the PCl
branches; and (vi) high levels of rotation of trained SMI staff. An increase
in PCI spreads from 5Z to 7Z in 1985 made SKI II lending more competitlve with
PCI general industrial lending, and improved collection performance from
increased project supervision boosted PCI confLdence in the secheme. Extensive
project promotion by NDD, lncreased sponsor literest In the SMI scheme,
simplification of appraisal formats, clarification of sectoral and expenditure
eligibility also improved the project pipeline considerably, and average
monthly commitments were about Re 40 million (US$1.0 million). The SDR 1.8
million TA component of SMI II was fully utllized.
SMI III (Cr.1860-CE)
4.        With the full commitment and increased impetus of disbursement of
credit funds under SMI II, GOSL sought the processing of a third SMI project to
generate employment opportunities in areas of high unemployment, and in
December 1987 SMI III (Cr.1860-CE) for SDR 15.7 million (US$20.0 million
equivalent) was approved by the Board. The project was cofinanced by ADB wlth
a parallel line of credit of US$15.0 million. As of December 31, 1990, the
credit component was fully committed. Dlsbursements (SDR 11.3 million) are
ahead of schedule and the project is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 31, 1991. To date, 1,700 subprojects have been financed under the
project. Given the recent approval of most of the subprojects, few are In the
repayment stage. Collections on those in repayment are currently about 90Z.
While use of the credit component is proceeding very satlsfactorily
(notwithstanding the continuing civil disturbances), use of the TA component
has been mixed. The component for training of NDBIPCI staff has been fully
utillzed, as has the funding for assistance to upgrade the banking supervision
capabilities of the CBSL. The first stage of the detailed operational reviews
of the BOC and PB have also been completed, provlding an initial assessment of
the comprehensive financial and organizational restructuring needed for both
institutions. Stage two of these assignments, detalled portfolio reviews and
expansion of pilot reorganlzation activities, would be continued under the
proposed SMI IV. With the exception of a small subcomponent aimed at improving
the efficiency of related PMEs, the technical assistance to 'i-plement further
components of the trade and industrial policy reform program is proceeding on
schedule. After an initial slow start in the use of TA funds, these are now
almost fully committed. A detailed analysis of the utllization of the TA has
shown that the slow use has been due to a number of factors: (i) lack of
awareness of the fund's availability; (ii) a perception that the funds could
only be accessed through line Ministries; and (iii) a mis-conception that funds
were only available for high level technology transfer and not for the lower
level of technical assistance most needed by entrepreneurs in developing and
implementing new projects or restructuring existing operations to cope with
competitive changes arising from tariff refomse. These concerns have been
noted and are addressed under SKI IV.



-39-
ATTACI4MENT I
ToANN*EX I
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI IV) PROJECT
Dbtrit-Wise Cla                  n As of December 31S 1990
(SLRs Million)
smi ()              SMi (IQ)             Wmi i                TOTAL
DISTRICT          NO.  AMOUNT          NO.  AMOUNT         NO.  AMOUNT          NO.  AMOUNT       *
1   AMPARA                   19      1.0           1     0.1           2      2.6          22      4.6     02*
2   ANURADHAPURA             40      3.7         113    35.2          102    23.6         26    82.6        2.5%
3   BADULLA                  68      4.8         a6    11.0           0      13.S         19    29.0        1.1%
4   BATTICALOA               22      3.7           3      1.5        -       -             25      6.2     02*
S   COLOMBO                 400    63.8          707   40.4          66    4170          1770   010.9    30.0%
0   GALLE                    76      7.0         245     0.5         20    117.           52    214.0       3.6%
7   SAMPAHA                 218    30.1          315   141.9         336   102.0          l0e   364.0    14.4*
8   HAMBANTOTA               37      4.5          as    23.7          44    14.3          147    42.5       1.7*
9   JAFFNA                   51    12.4            6      83           3      1.0          03    17.0       0.76
10   KALUTARA                 67      7.5          s0    45.6         110    53.           go    136.7      5.4%
11   KANDY                   152      0.4         106    31.6         146    530           406    04.0       3.7%
12   KEGALLE                  20      4.5         100    38.           35    13.0          170    65.3      22*
13   KILINOONCHI                       -             -         -          -               -       -         0.0%
14   KUnUNEGALA              177    12.5          143    53.3         273   0G.6           US    184.6      5.3*
15   MATARA                   92    11.6          137    48.4         101    544           330   1143       4.5*
16   MANNAR                    3      1.3        -       -            -       -              3      1.3     0.1*
17   MATALE                   53      4.7          29     6.4          29      0.0         111    20.1      0.8*
18   MONERAGALA                3      02           29     6.3          13      2.3          45      7.6     0.3*
19   MULLATIVU                 3      0.4        _       -            -       -              3     0.4      0.0*
20   NUWARAEUVA                9      0.7          23      9.1         36    25.4                  3562      1.4%
21   POLONNARUWA              35      3.6          69    14.0          40    13.1          184    30.6       12*
22   PUTTALAM                 146    15.5         155    62.7         211    se.7          512   156.9       02*
23   RATNAPUR44               22      2.1         101    36.4          91    49.4          214    37.9       3.5*
24   TRINWh  .LEE              6      2.1           3     0.4           5      2.8          1       4.8      0.2%
25   VAVUNIVA                  6      0.9           1     0.3         -       -              7      1.2      0.0%
TOTAL             1741   229.5        2401  1,083.0        2575  1344.6       0607  2532.6   100.0%
Soure: NDBSL



-40-
ATTACHMENT 2
ToANNEX I
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI IV) PROJECT
Sub-Sectoral ClassMication As of December 31, 1990
(SLRs Million)
8MI ()               ImI (IQ)             SMI (IIQ)              TOTAL
DISTRICT           NO.  AMOUNT          NO.  AMOUNT           NO.  AMOUNT          NO.  AMOUNT         %
Cons. Contracong          I1      5.0          24     10.5           19    10.1           54    34.6       1.4%
Cons. Matedal            272    42.9          172    09.4           271    07.0          715   209.5       8.3%
Food Procesing           474    56.6          U0S   287.2           56N    305.9        16      640.7     25.7%
Garments                  so      0.5         137    01.2           240    156.6         466    130.5      9.1%
MeW Products             215    22.4          211     87.0          230    66.6          a0     190.6      7.8%
Otwr Agro Industrles     120    10.1           46     13.2           73    23.0          2S0    46.3       1.8%
Repair Worklehop          51      4.1         120    29.4            so    27.7          200    61.2       2.4%
Rubber Products           25      6.8          74    42.7            64    66.0          16?   105.8       4.2%
Textile                   52      7.7          54    38.7            s0    47.4          16e     93.6      3.7%
Wood Products            176    20.4          174    47.9           16    62.4           5U     130.7      5.2%
Animal Husbandry and
Ho4erulture            -       -             156    532            148    47.8          S06    101.0      4.0%
Chemical Producto       -        -              8      2.3           24    12.5           82     14.8      0.6%
ComrIoW Transport       -       -             210    00.4           221     65.0         431    145.4      5.7%
Leather and Alled
Products               -       -              26    11.1            30      7.0         s6      18.7      0.7%
Plastic Products        -       -              42    40.9            42    33.3           64    74.2       2.9%
Pdnlng and Paper
Product               -       -             136    74.7           104    03.0          242    137.7      5.4%
Others                   252    44.0          230    110.2          209    117.6         691    280.6     11.1%
TOTAL              1741    220.5        2491   1058.6        2675   1244.6         6807  2532.6    100.0%



-41-                           ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 9
D R A F T
Ministry of Finance
Democratic SocialLst Republic
of Sri Lanka
Colombo 1, Sri Lunka
April 11. 1991 (PM)
Dear Mr. Karaosmanoglu:
Re: Statement of Financial Sector Policy
Since 1977, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has worked closely
with the World Bank to develop and implement a comprehensive phased program of
trade and industrial policy reform. To date, much has been done and we feel
that we now have in place the basic structure of an industrial policy regime
which is conducive to the industrial development which we see as critical to
the economic development of the country. However, our efforts to date have not
resulted in the level of development we had anticipated. In trying to identify
the constraints to development, we have concluded that the efficiency and
growth of our industrial sector (and indeed, all productive sectors) has been
hampered by the present structure of the financial sector upon which it is so
dependent for mobilizing financing critical for growth.
This conclusion is not new. The July 1986, International Monetary
FundlInternational Development Association (IMF/IDA) Financial Sector Report
noted that although the financial sector in Sri Lanka has been substantially
liberalized since 1977, and that the structure of the sector had become qulte
sophisticated, there were a number of significant constraints to the sector's
efficiency.    These  included,  inter  alias  (i)  distorted  interest  rate
determination; (ii) directed resource allocation; (iii) excessive levels of
intermediation costs; (iv) a weak regulatory environment; (v) inadequate credit
discipline; and (vi) an underdeveloped capital market.
To address these issues, GOSL initially deregulated the
administered interest rates, and pending the development of a more market-
determined allocation of funds, introduced the use of the averaged weighted
prime lending rate as the market reference for temn lending operations.
Additionally, to reduce intermediation costs, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
(CBSL) established uniform and lower reserve requirements. These actions were
supported by steps to remove legal constraints to debt recovery through
legislative approval of a comprehensive package of debt recovery measures.
This liberalization, and the resulting more competitive envlronment, placed a



-42-                             ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
considerable strain upon CBSL's supervision capabilities and hlghlighted the
need to strengthen banking regulations. Action in both areas was taken, and
as noted below, further steps are under development. As a further actLon to
improve the effLcLency of the system, GOSL enacted legislation to rationalize
the operatlons of the securitles markets, consolidatLng the two stock exchanges
which had not operated effectlvely. Wlth help from the AsLan Development Bank
(ADB) and the International Finunce Corporation (IFC), GOSL also attempted to
stimulate greater securities activity and the development of primary and
secondary markets in government securitles by increasing the taz incentlves for
share placement, reforming the system of underwrLting, and developing new
investment vehicles.
I would like to note that the Government has also appointed a
Presidentlal Comuission to further revlew the Banking System and suggest
changes to the Banking Sector and to improve the efficiency of the system. The
report of the Committee is expected by August 31, 1991.
Toward a Sectoral Strategy
However, our recent efforts to expand industrlal development, and
the findings of IDA's 1990 Financial Institutions Study, have reconflrmed the
continued exLstence of these constraints and highlighted the need to develop
a strategy for the reform of the sector tot (a) bring its operational pollcies
and procedures more into line with international standards, particularly the
Bank of International Settlements (Basle Accord) guidelinest and (b) improve
its operational efficiency, objectives which raise a fundamental issue for GOSL
to resolve, i.e., the nature of the intervention necessary to achieve the
objectives.   In this regard, two options are open to 6OSL, i.e., to adopt
either an administrative or a policy interventional approach. Under the flrst
option, we could continue to work as in the past, I.e., to channel credlt
through the system and to upgrade the efficiency of indivldual institutions.
However, we feel that this approach would not necessarily reduce the
distortlons in the system; it would continue the process of directing credit
and could result in the perceived need to provide special support to particular
institutions. The second option, which is GOSL's preferred option, is to adopt
a policy approach with a focus on improving the efficiency of the financial
system as a whole by introducing a more competitive and rigorous environment.
However, existing institutions will require time to adapt their operations.
Thus, a blended approach of both administrative and policy intervention, with
rapid but progressive adjustment, is felt to be the most appropriate for Sri
Lanka at this time. This letter outlines our objectives for the sector and
indicates the evolving sector strategy we propose to follow to address the
constraints in the system. On the basis of the details noted below, we hope
that IDA will be able to support us in this regard by rapidly processing the
proposed Fourth Small and Medium Industries Project (with the State Coammercial
Banks--SCBs--as active participants) and the Banking Sector Reform Project,
both of which we see as vehicles for implementing key elements of the strategy.



-43-                           ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
The Sectoral Reform Program
So that our banking system can play an increasingly effective role
in supporting the country's development program and lts related resource
mobilization requirements, our primary objectlve is now to bulld on the earlier
actions and the findings of the Financial Institutions Study through the
vehicle of ongoing and proposed ADB and IDA lending operations. We plan to
accomplish this objective by the implementation of a phased program of sectoral
reform which will covers (a) the monetary policy rationalization5 (b) refining
refinancing and reserve requirements; (c) strengthening bank supervision and
regulation; (d) adoption of international standards of financial disclosure;
te) restructuring of the two SCBs; (f) rationalizing and restructuring of the
National Savings Bank (NSB); (g) the reduction of GOSL's shareholdings in the
National Development Bank (NDB) and the reduction of SCB shareholdings in the
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) to CBSL guideline levels;
(h) the rationalization of the legislative, regulatory, and institutional
structure of the state insurance corporations; (i) the strengthening of the
accounting regulatory framework; (j) the strengthening of the capital market;
and (k) monitoring the impact of debt recovery legislation enacted in 1990 ns
the basis for introducing, if necessary, further actions to improve financ,.l
discipline.
We envision that the proposed program will enable Sri lanka to move
gradually but steadily toward a more competitive, market-based system with
indirect controls, a larger private sector role, as well as increased autonomy,
commercial orientation, and management efficiency for the financial
institutions that remain under government control.   The areas noted above
represent an indicative outline of the reform program. As detailed discussions
take place in seeking further agreenent on the recommendations of the FinancLal
Institutions Study, and as experience is gained in implementing the
requirements of ADB's Financial Sector Program Loan and technLcal assistance
package, the program will be modified to reflect relatlve priorities and the
absorptive capacity of the system to implement the proposed changes.
While all the elements of the reform program are regarded as
important and significant contributions toward addressing the many problems
faced by a number of financial institutions in the system, the system cannot
cope with the immediate implementation of such a comprehensive reform progran.
Some action is already underway; additional steps will be taken up under the
proposed ADBIIDA parallel-financed Small and Medium Industries (SMI) Project
with further action proposed under the aegis of the proposed Banking Sector
Reform Project scheduled for preparation in late FY91.
As a further step in the reform process, GOSL proposes to take a
number of actions under the proposed SMI Project which, when linked with the
changes already underway, should: (a) strengthen the system's fLnancial
viability; and (b) reduce further the system's distortions; and (c) lay the
foundations for a further round of action some time in 1992. Specifically, the
actions we propose to take over the next two years are noted below.



-44-                            ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
Banking suPervision and Regulation. In 1988, the Banking Act was
passed by Parliament which require all banks to meet the following conditiones
(a) a minimum capital ratio of 42 of banks' liabilities, including interbank
and contingent liabilities; (b) a minimum liquid asset requirement of 201 of
liabilities less liabilities to the CBSL and shareholders funds; (c) a limit
on lending to single borrowers of 30X of capltal funds; (d) limiting raxi;mum
individual shareholdings to 151; and (e) no lending to directors except with
the approval of the Monetary Board. Additionally, revised regulations under
the Finance Companies Act require minimum capital for finance companies of
SLRs 5 million and a minimum capital-to-deposit ratio of 102. The latter ratio
is to be replaced by a 81 minimum risk-asset-based measure of capital In 1991.
The minimum liquid asset requirement has been set at 151 of deposits and an
additional 61 of deposits haie to be placed in approved securities--CBSL
securities and treasury bills--lodged tith the CBSL.
Since the issuance of these regulations, GOSL has given
considerable thought to the need for the capital adequacy to better reflect
that the fundamental role of capital is as a safeguard against unanticipated
losses, losses which relate to the risks on the asset portfolio. Thus, GOSL
proposes to introduce a risk-asset-based measure of capital adequacy which
could become effective by December 31, 1992 on all private domestic and foreign
banks, and which would be implemented in the SCBs as part of a proposed
operational restructuring.   As part of the process of moving to a risk-
adjusted, asset-based capital adequacy ratio, GOSL will also require all banks
to follow new guidelines for loan classification and loss provisioning. In May
1987, the CBSL circulated guidelines that classified advances as delinquent on
which interest or capital payments are in arrears for six months.   The
guidelines required suspension of interest on such advances. However, this
classification was not accompanied by specific provisioning requirements or the
suspension of interest that had already been taken into profits.   In mid-
February 1991, the CBSL issued an exposure draft proposing rigorous loan
classification and provisioning guidelines for banks under which: interest
would be suspended and loans segregated as non-performing when payments are in
arrears for three months; loans in arrears for six to twelve months should be
classified as substandard with a 201 provisioning requirement; loans in arrears
for twelve to eighteen months should be classified as doubtful with a 50X
provisioning requirement; and loans in arrears for over eighteen months should
be classified as loss with a 1002 provisioning requirement. Provisioning for
substandard and doubtful loans would take into account the quality of
collateral. In addition, any loan in arrears that appears as doubtful or a
loss, based on the condition of the borrower, would be so classified regardless
of the period of delinquency. Public sector borrowers would be treated on a
equal footing with private borrowers.   Detailed guidelines will also be
developed for assessing the currentness of payments on overdrafts and copies
of the guidelines have been sent to IDA for its observations.
Accounting Regulations and Financial Disclosure.   To bring the
financial reporting of the banks into line with International Accounting
Standards, GOSL recently gazetted Part V of the Banking Act, which provides a
legal framework relating to accounting and financial reporting. The Act has
been strengthened by the issuance by the CBSL of nrescribed formats for
reporting, both to the CBSL and as the basis for public disclosure.   This



-45-                           ANNX 2
Page 5 of 9
requirement will be effective from January 1, 1991 and will apply to fiscal
year 1991 accounts. We will request the CBSL to ensure that the SCBs comply
with the format, disclosure, and all other guidelines in accounting and
financial reporting issued by the CBSL.
Restructuring the State Commercial Banks. As you are aware, the
two SCBs dominate the Sri Lanka banking system in terms of size and act as
leaders  in  establishing  interest  rates.    While  there  are  substantial
differences between the two institutions, they have similar problems.  Both
have large, non-performing loan portfolios and very high administrative costs.
The cost of support for this situation has led to higher interest rates
throughout the financial sector. In spite of charging high spreads on loans,
both SCes would show substantial losses if application of the international
accounting policies necessary to conform to the Basle Accord requirements were
made.   As conformity will be required if they are to operate  in the
international market, these requirements will have to be met. However, both
will need major restructuring to meet the guidelines required and will need to
be reoriented if they are to help the banking sector perform efficient
financial intermediation to support productive sectors and GOSL's development
activities.
Against this background, we view strengthening the SCBs as the most
fundamental aspect of our reform program, as their financial soundness and
effective functioning are vital to the health of the sector, and through their
resource mobilization and allocation efforts, to the health of the economy.
Most of the measures mentioned in this letter including, in particular, reforms
related to interest rate changes, loan classification, accounting policies for
provision and suspension of interest, improved banking supervision and improved
debt recovery environment, will hopefully contribute significantly to
strengthen the SCBs.
However, we recognize that additional action is necessary, and as
a foundation for restructuring recommended by IDA, we agree that it is
essential that both institutions be subjected to the rigor of an indepth audit
Lased upon fulfillment of international accounting standards. Accordingly, we
have asked ADB to help us identify an international firm experienced in bank
audits, with Sri Lanka correspondents, to provide the funding for the ensuing
audits. They have agreed to do this and, with the appointment of the selected
audit firm, we expect the audits to be underway by April 1, 1991 and completed
by September 30, 1991. A named partner in the international firm will be
responsible for the audit and the full audlt opinion will be made available to
GOSL, ADB and IDA and a detailed management letter prepared.
Based upon the audited accounts of 1990, the SCBes would incorporate
into their books provisions and interest suspension required under CB8L's
capital adequacy and provision guidelines.   From thie adjusted basis, the
financial adjustments necessary to comply with the CBSL capital adequacy
guidelines would be determined and appropriate arrangements made for any
addltional  equity/debt  restructuring necessary.    This problem would be
supported by additional equity/debt restructuring necessary.   This program
would be supported by operational changes to ensure that the SCBs are made
viable and do not have to be recapitalized again within two to three years.



-46-                           ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 9
Key elements in this regard would bet (a) a prohibition on dividends until the
SCBs have met the CBSL capital adequacy guidelines; (b) closure of small loss-
making branches; (c) progressive reduction of subsidized, directed lending; and
(d) prohibiting lending to serious defaulters identified by the Credit
Information Bureau. These requirements would be incorporated into a phased
program of financlal restructuring to be implemented as a condition for SCB
participation in this Project. We expect detailed proposals to be available
for discussions with both ADB and IDA by March 31, 1992.
The Role of the Development Finance Institutlons tDFIs). Despite
the initial concept of self-Lustaining, multi-service institutions, Sri Lanka's
two DFIs, namely the DFCC aud NDB, have remained dependent on GOSL and the
multilateral donors for funding, and until recently, have focused their
activities on term lending, making them particularly vulnerable to
macroeconomic changes and increased competition engendered by GOSL's financ al
sector liberalization. Recent diversification programs initiated by both DFCC
and NDB under IDAs9 First and Second Industrial Development Projects (Cr. 1401-
CE and Cr. 1692-CE) have attempted to address these concerns. However, two
issues are still outstanding. First, there is a need to develop a clear plan
for broadening the resource base (e.g., through mobilization of term deposits.
bond issues, capital subscription by new shareholders, etc.) and activities of
both institutions in this regard has been conecrained by the level of GOSL's
shareholdings in NDB and the SCBs' shareholdings in DFCC, and we recognize that
divesting these shareholdinge would be in keeping with the spirit of reducing
the public sector's role in the economy now being carried out by GOSL. Second,
a large number of senior staff have left both institutions for better
opportunities outside Sri Lanka, or to other institutions in Sri Lanka. A
major cause of such departures is the apparent decreasing competitiveness of
the Governmnt-dictated DPI salary and benefit structures, which are now
significantly below those of their private sector competitors.  To address
these concerns GOSL proposes to enact legislation to enable NDB to sell shares
to institutional investors and others, will set a limit similar to that of the
Banking Act, on the holdings of any individual company or group in the
shareholdings of NIDB and DFCC. ADN has already provided TA to help NDB value
its assets as a preliminary to the sale of its shares.
The Role of Insurance Companies. At present, legislation covering
the insurance industry does not allow for a ready Integration of the industry
into the evolving financial reform program. There is thus an urgent need to:
(a) raview legislation and regulations in order to bring them up to date and
responsive to an atmosphere of financial liberalizationt (b) ezamine
institutional arrangements to ensure competititon on equal basis, and ensure
greater competition without artiflcial restrain-_ and market segmuentation; and
(c) substantially strengthen the Office of the Controller of Insurance. We
have requested IDA's assistance to carry out a brief diagnostic study of the
problems (including the legislative and regulatory framework), as well as to
determine the longer term technical assistance needs (perhaps in the form of
an expatriate Advisor) for the Controller of Insurance.



-47-                           ARM  2
Page 7 of 9
Interest Rates.   Although Lnterest rates have generally been
positlve in real terms, GOSL recognizes that the Interest rate structure Ls
affected by a number of anomalies, LacludLngs (a) an adminiLtered interest rate
structure with wlde ranges in lending and deposit interest rates, with some
deposit rates exceeding lending rates; (b) inadequate liquldity in some
financial institutions; (c) high reserve requirements for banking instLtutions
side by side with unregulated financing institutions; and (d) prLority for
Government  resource mobilization over prlvate  sector financing.   As of
December 31, 1990, fixed term deposit rates, which follow the levels set by the
NSB ranged from 162 for three month deposits, to 18.5Z for two year deposlts.
Comparatively, lending rates are relatLvely hlgh, with term loans at 182-24Z
and working capital loans at 16Z-25Z.
The constraining effect of high real .nterest rates on economic
activity has been compounded by the perverse relationshlp of short term rates
wlth modium- and long-term lending rates.   Currently,  under the CBSL's
refinance schemes and the lending policles for term financing of the SCBs and
DYIs, lending rates for medium- and long-term loans are 6Z below commercial
bank overdraft rates and equal to tbe Average Weighted Prime Rate (AWPR) of
19.22 for commercial bank prime short-term lending operations. As a further
step to address these distortions, GOSL and the CBSL plan to increase the role
of market forces in term lending rate determination by using an average
weighted cost of non-demand deposits as the basis for onlending donor funds to
financial institutions.
Thus, funds from multi- and bLiateral agencies would, to the extent
possible, be onlent from CQ'%L at the Average Weighted Cost of Term Deposit
Rates (AIDR), i.e., the weighted average of the interest cost on all interest-
bearing bonds, including savings accounts, fixed deposits, certificates of
deposits, of the Greater Colombo branches of the domestic commercial banks
(excluding the NSB). Based upon the mix of non-demand deposits held by these
branches as of December 31, 1990, the 'effective' AWDR was about 13.7S, which
is comparable to the present onlending rate based upon the ALPR.  This is
reasonable in view of medium-term inflation projection of 82-1OZ for the next
three years and present commerclal banks' term deposit rate of IIZ-242. A
rolling six-month AVDR will be computed by the CBSL and cammunicated to the
commercial bank for use on January 1 and July 1 of each year. The AWDR is
proposed as the interest reference point pending the maturity of CBSL's
Treasury Bill market, which was established In 1987. or determination of some
other appropriate market-related reference.
To further refine the AWDR to the market rate, the mechanism for
estabUlshing the Interest rates and spreads would be reviewed on January 1 and
July 1, with appropriate adjustment as necessary. However, to allow a smooth
transition to the new concept, we propose that the move to the AWDR should be
phased into operation over a three-year period by semi-annual increases of not
more than 0.5Z. Based upon the rolling weLghted average AWDR for the period
AprLi 1 to September 30 for the January revLew, and October 1 to March 31 for
the July review, the onlending rate to be charged to the recipient lnstLtutions
would be amended on January 1 and July 1 to: (a) reflect any sigLificant
movement In the system non-demand deposit ratestu and (b) remain posLtive In
real terms vis-a-vis  long-term Liflation rates.   The banks or financ La
institutLons would be free to charge sub-borrowers a market-determined interest
rate of sub-loans financed under the Projact, with rates elther fixed or
variable based upon agreement between the lender and the sub-borrower.



-48-                           ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 9
Debt Recovery Measures.   With the aim of providing financial
institutions in particular wlth expeditious and effective procedures for debt
recovery, a package of amendments to Srl Lanka debt recovery legislation was
passed by Parliament in February 1990. Thirteen separate Bills were involved
touching, inter alia, on: (a) parate execution; and (b) accelerated summons and
substitution of parties. The reforms originated from recommendations made by
a number of comnittees, including a 1989 committee of Sri Lankan commercial and
banking law experts, assisted by an international expert in commercial law.
Following Parliamentary discussions, the recommendatLons were not accepted in
toto, however, and progress in a number of areas has been significantly slower
than expected. The international expert in commercial law assisted by banking
sector officials has recently reviewed the 1990 amending legislation and its
probable impact, and has indicated measures to monitor and strengthen the debt
recovery process. Specifically, emphasis has been placed on the importance of
strengthening the capabilities of fisecals (including providing for the
appointment of private sector fiscals) and establishing or designating special
courts to be devoted solely to debt recovery cases. Such courts would operate
initially in Colombo but, if considered necessary, would be extended to
regional centers at a later stage.
With reference to the proposed Fourth SMI Project, GOSL will
closely monitor the impact of the various amendments passed early last year on
debt recovery performance. Taking into account all lessons learned as a result
of this monitoring, GOSL will furnish to IDA a report setting out the actions
taken since the 1990 legislation became effective, and its recommendations on
what other steps, if any, are necessary to improve the effectiveness of the
debt recovery legislation.
Credit Information Bureau of Sri lanka (CIBSL). Lack of available
information on defaulters has been a major weakness on enforcing credit
discipline.   GOSL recognized this and a new credit information bureau was
established in July 1990 under the Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka Act.
It is 51Z owned by the CBSL, 30X by commercial banks, and 192 by other
financial institutions. It is presently staffed with CBSL employees and is to
receive technical assistance from ADD under the proposed ADBIIDA SMI Project.
Initially, the CBSL is establishing a data base for loan defaulters with
balances in excess of SLRs 500,000. As the data base is established, CBSL will
give consideration to prohibiting extension of expanded credit facilities to
defaulter identified by the bureau without getting the permission of the bank
holding the loans in default, or suing the extended credit to pay off amounts
due to that bank. Exceptions could be made in iases where there are legal
disputes involving small portions of loans outstanding. We feel that this
action will send a message to defaulters that one of the major costs of
defaulting could be a sharp curtailment of access to additional credit. Once
the credit bureau and the message are firmly entrenched, say after two years,
the prohibition might be waLved.



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
Conclusion
We are confident that the action outlined above as part of a longer
term program of sectoral reform will be significant step toward ensuring the
financial viability of our banking system, and in facilitating more efficient
mobilization and allocation of resources and better monetary management in
support of our develipment objectives. While these measures should generate
beneficial investment and production response, we recognize that comensurate
adjustments will also be required with respect to trade and incentive policy,
public enterprise management and the tax regime, as well as additional
financial sector adjustment measures over tim. to realize the potential
benefAts of these reforms more fully.
Preliminary estimates of the financial requirements to implement
key elements of the action program, particularly the restructuring of SCBs, are
in the order of US$200 million. This estimate will be revised as the detailed
elements of the program are firmed up on the basis of the result of ADB-
financed international financial audit and the financial/operational
restructuring needs of the SCBs are clarified. The amount will be needed to
recapitalize the SCBs and to implement the SCB technical assistance program.
In view of the initiatives proposed by GOSL in the formulation and
implementation of this initial action program of financial sector reforms, the
Government requests the rapid processing of the proposed SKI IV Project of
US$35 million, in parallel with the proposed ADB SMI II Project for US$35
million.
Yours sincerely,



-50-                           ATTACHMGNW 1
to ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKM
FINANCIAL SECToR REFORM : SNI IV
Banking Supervision and Regulation
1.   Enforce minimum capital adequacy required for all banks.
2.   Design and issue more rigorous loan classification and
provisioning requirement for banks.
3. Treat public enterprise loans equally In terms of classification
and provisions policy.
4.  CBSL to require provisions equal to capitalized interest on
rescheduled loans.
5.   Require CBSL to classify loans based on CBSL requirements and
focus CBSL inspection on accuracy of classifications.
6.   Strengthen CBSL bank supervision and inspection functions.
Accounting Regulations and Financial Disclosure
1.   Gazette Part V of Banking Act (accounting and auditing).
2. Specify the format for bank financial statements and require use
of relevant Accounting Standards.
3.   Prepare standard bank financial statement iormats and make their
use mandatory.
Restructuring the State Cowmercial Banks
1. Require financial audits of SCBs by lnternational auditors in
conjunction with local firms.
2. Use international auditors to do detailed analysis of SCB
accounting systems and controls, and prepare plan for
strengthening them.
3.   Consultants associated vith 1990 audit should develop a costed
action plan for implementing accounting system improvements.
4.   Expense all SCB 1990 loan provisions.
5. Reflect all provisions and new capital adequacy requirements In
SCB 1990 financial statements.



-51-                           ATTACHMENT 1
to ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
6.   SCBs to adupt a comprehensive approach to valu' , loan portfolio
based on the methodology used by BOC consult& w.
7.   U;arge specific provisions to account of related SCB branches.
8.   Strengthen BOCIPB internal auditing capability.
The Role of the DFIs
1.   Partially privatize NDB by dlvesting GOSL shareholding.
2.   Free NDB to set its salary and compensation structure based on
commercial principles.
3.   SCB shareholding in DFCC to be limited to levels indicated under
Banking Act.
4.   NDB and DFCC to consider selling shares to foreign technical
partners or entering into joint ventures with private domestic
banks.
5.  NDB and DFCC should give priority to designing strategy for
mobilizing local currency resources at costs that allow profitable
onlending.
The Role of the Insurance Companies
1.  Review ezisting legislation and regulatory framework to ensure
equal competitive environment for state-owned and private
companies.
2.   Strengthen capabilities of Controller of Insurance.
The Debt Recovers Environment
1. Make TA available to DFIs and state banks to improve debt
recovery.
2.   Strengthen comercial court administration related to debt
recovery.
3. Strengthen operational capabilities of Credit Information Bureau
(CIBSL).
4. Require that DFIs and commercial banks not lend to defaulters
identlfied by CIBSL.



-52-                                     MNEX S
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SM IV) PROJECT
INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE 1984-1990
Cm percent per annum)
Dembr31                     104       1U        1906       10o        1o"         1           10900
ContralInkRsiea                             13        11         11         10          10         14
Govenment TwNy NOle
-PrmaryMurt                                14       11.5        11    10.6-11   18.6-18.9   152-17.5   15.5-17.6
- Soonday market                           14       11.5        11       11.S         23         20.6        20.5
Commncwl Bank
Loan Rate
Average Pdme LendW                      n.e       n.4.       14.6       14.2        10.0         1S         192
Secured Loan and Overdraft rb          17-30     16-29      12-36     0.8-26      9.6-26      9.8-25      10-25
Depot Ras
SAvings Depokt                         10-15   10-13.5       6-12       6-11       5-11        5-14        6-14
lme Depodst
-   mondh                             13-10      9-19     7.5-13       7-13      6-13.6       8-10        6-20
-I12mondh                             14-22    12-15      8.6-14     6.5-14      6-16.5     11-20.5      11-21
Natonal 8Sangs Bank Deposit Rats
-SavIngsDepoesit                           12        12         12         12          12         14         162
- 12-month Fbed Deposi                  14w1i     13-1       12-13      12-13       12-13       14-16    1.6-17.0
-10-ysarSavingsC  _es 11                            11         11         11          11         11          11
Lending RAtes of Ctedi Insituno
etsk Mortgage end Inwbrment bank        12-24    10-24        8-20       6-20       *-20       16-19       1e-19
- DFCO                                  11-14     14-21      14-16      14-IS       14-10       14-10      14-19
-NoB                                     7-14      7-14       7-14       7-14       7-18        7-18         7-8
alfTh rt Ihaed byqh Central Bank on advne to commercial banks for hir temporay liqudity purpose.
b On gowernmen soeuie.
Soure: C4arel bank d 8O Lanka - Fabnauy 1000



-53-                           ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
SRI LKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI IV) PROJECT
Technical Assistancel'
A. Institutional Development: (US$3.5 Million)
1.       rCI Upgrading/Training Programs.  Under the ongoing SMI projects,
funds were provided to NDBIPCIs to assist them in build$ng their capability for
project financing through staff training, systems and operations Improvement
and subsector analysis. This assistance would continue; approximately US$1.0
million would be provided to extend technical assistance to NDB/PCIs for
training of regional and branch office staff and to the CBSL for training of
staff in the Development Finance Department associated with the credit
guarantee scheme. During negotiations agreement [was reached) with GOSL, NDB
and CBSL on the detailed training programs for FY91-PY93 consisting of baslc
programs for staff new to project financing, an advanced program for more
senior staff and overseas training for key management personnel.
2.       Operational RevLews (SCBs). Despite substantial improvements in
recent years, there are a number of areas where structural and operational
shortcomings within the financial sector still need to be addressed. Recent
IDA Financial Sector missions have identified weakness in the adequacy of
institution capitalization, provisioning policies and high NCB operating costs
expressed as a percentage of total assets. The NCB's asset portfolios are also
suspect due to the high level of non performing investments. The impact of
BTT, reserve requirements, high operational costs and hiLh levels of non
performing assets is reflected in the high spreads (6Z-8Z) charged on NCB
transactions. Thus their inefficiencies become a cost to the economy as a
whole. A detailed review of the NCB's operations, particularly the level of
portfolio infection and collections, has been carried out under SMI III.
However, much more work is necessary to develop appropriate restructuring
proposals. The TOR (Annex 9) for this work were agreed with GOSL and the NCBs
prior to negotiations and US$1.4 million would be provided to cover the cost of
the assistance.
B. Policy Development: (US$1.0 Million)
3.      Reorientation of Export Development and Investment Promotion
Strategies. As noted in the SAR, GOSL has made considerable efforts to use the
EDB and the GCEC to develop a pragmatic export and industrial investment
development strategy linked with a program of incentives for export oriented
and new investment. However, the effectiveness of the strategy and GOSL's
promotion measures since 1977 has been offset by the ineffectiveness of the two
institutions, the depreciation of the rupee via a vis the US$ and cumbersome
procedural arrangements to access the incentives. Thus the role of both
1, Detailed Terms of Reference for each of the sub-components noted in this
annex and held on the Project FLie (Annex 9).



-54-                           ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
institutlons needs to be redeflned to reflect changes In the in the
lnternatLonal/domestLc economlc environment and the Incentive structure.
Recognizing the sLtuation, Cr.1948-CE (IDP III) provlded asssLtance to GOSLIEDB
to (a) redefine its export development strategy; (b) evaluate the operational
effectiveness of the EDB; and (c) identify optLons for improving the
effectiveness of export incentlves. Thls work is underway but the changing
international and domestlc economlc envlronment requLie that these efforts be
strengthened. Accordlngly, US$250,000 would be provlded for this purpose.
This would be used to develop an actLon program to ratLonalize both
instltutlons. TOR for consultants to be appointed withln three months of
credlt effectlveness to provlde technical assLstance to approprlate government
agencies and the PCIs to fLnalize the export strategy and duty drawback
facilltles or the lntroductLon of bonded warehouse facliLtLes to lndLrect
exporters would be dlscussed at negotiations. IDA would also review the
fLndLngs/progress of lmplementatlon durLig project supervLsion and the annual
project revlew the fLndLigs/progress of implementatlon during project
supervLsion and the annual project revlew
4.       RationallzatLon of Customs and Exclse PolLcLes and Procedures.  The
processing of documentatlon wlthin the Department of Customs and Excise (DCE)
has been identifled as a signLfLcant bottleneck constraining the smooth flow of
materlal needed for both trade and production. In line wlth changes in the
tariff and exclse charges, there is a need to rationalize DCI procedures. The
proposed project would provide US$200,000 to carry out a detailed revlew of the
DCE procedures leadLng to the computerization of operations early in 1991. It
is proposed that thls work would be executed on IDA's behalf by the IMF whlch
is also carrying out a revlew of the Government's overall tax structure.
5.       Strengthening the Insurance Sector.  The present legislation covering
the insurance lndustry does not allow its ready integration Into the evolving
financial sector, whlch ls being liberalized. There is an urgent need tot (a)
review the legislation and regulations in order to bring them up to date and
make them responsive to an atmosphere of financial liberalization; (b) examine
institutional arrangements to ensure competition on an equal basis between
private and state insurers, and ensure greater competitlon wLthout artiflcLal
restraints and market segmentation; and (c) substantially strengthen the Office
of the Controller of Insurance. For thls purpose, an amount of US$200,000 has
been allocated to respond to GOSL's request for IDA assistance to carry out a
brief diagnostlc study of the problems (including the legLilative and
regulatory framework), as well as to determine the longer term technical
assistance needs (perhaps in the form of an expatriate AdvLsor) for the
Controller of Insurance.
6.       Environmental Impact Assessment and Management.  A major objective of
the project is to assist the CEA develop industrial subsectoral environmental
guldelines and to ensure that the preparatlon and appraLsal of investments by
the PCIs adequately reflect these. Incorporation of environmental impact
assessment (EIA) and managerial plans into the project preparation and appral-
sal process includes (a) development of an action program for the use of EIAs
In subproject appraisal; (b) preparation of environmental guidelines by CIA;
(c) establishment of an EUI review unit within each PCI; (d) issuance of
sectoral guldelines to all branches of PCIss and (e) random sampllng of sub-
projects in selected subsectors to ensure compliance with approved guidelines



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
and implementation of needed remedial design changes. During the annual review
of project implementation performance arrangements for envlronmental screening,
preparation of environmental assessments and project appraisal will be reviewed
and follow-up measures to strengthen environmental assessment capabilitles and
coordination with CEA would be developed. To assist the CEAINDB/PCIs implement
this action program, US$300,000 of TA funding has been allocated under the
project.
7.       Industrial and Financial Sector Policy and Procedural Review.  In line
with the ADB-funded review of SMI Development Policies and Strategles
(para. 10), funding of about US$50,000 would be provided to GOSL for
administrative/technical support to carry out ad hoc "short term" studies of
the impact of the implementation of its 1989 Industrialization Strategy and of
the proposed financial sector policies. TOR for specLfic subproject proposals
would be submitted to IDA for approval and the findings and recommendations
discussed with GOSL during the course of periodic supervision missions.
C. Project Implementation Supports (US$500,000)
8.       The SMI Technical Assistance Fund (TAF).  During the supervision of
ongoing SMI Projects and preparation for the proposed project, a correlation
was found between successful project implementation and the provision of
technical assistance to the SMI entrepreneurs. Thus, under SMI III, a tech-
nical assistance fund (TAP) of US$500,000 was established to provide funding
through the PCIs to existing or potential SMI entrepreneurs to finance techni-
cal assistance such as consulting services for business development, training
programs, productivity improvement assignment, and to introduce new or improved
technology. The TAP provided funding for part of the costs of these assign-
ments, with the balance paid by the entrepreneur. Initially, cost sharing was
assessed on a case by case basis. However, in general, the cost sharing basis
has been 50:50. The present TAF is administered by NDB which is responsible
for developing detailed policies and procedures, promoting SMI operations,
soliciting proposals from private industry, reviewing the eligibility and
viability of each subproject, submitting approved proposals for IDA approval,
disbursing the funds and supervising the assignment. Use of the TAP has been
significantly below expectations, however, the existence of the fund will be
given greater prominence through press notices. With the need to incorporate
environmental protection measures in new and existing projects, and the need to
restructure projects to cope with the effects of proposed tariff changes, a
significant increase in the use of the fund is expected and SKI IV would
provide an additional US$500,000 to supplement the balance of the TAP, which
will be used to provide assistance in three areass firm level consulting
services, training for NGOISMI management staff and topical studies.
ADB Technical Assistance
9.      Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka (CIBSL).  Several far-reaching
measures have been implemented by GOSL as part of financial sector reform
agreed with the ADB/IDA. Among them, the most recent measures were the enact-
ment of the Banking Act, introduction of Debt Recovery Laws and the establish-
ment of the Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka (CIBSL), all intended to
bring about a qualitative improvement in the financial institutions of the
country. CIBSL was established June 15, 1990 and is jointly owned by CBSL, all



-56-                           ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
licensed commercial banks and long-ternm lending institutLons. It operates as
an independent body charged with the function of collecting and collating data
on borrowers and theLr financial obligations to financial institutions, so that
all shareholder inastitutions (except the CBSL) can use this information when
appraising loan applications. The role of the Bureau is vital to improve the
quality of lending in view of the hlgh incldence of loan defaults in Sri Lanka,
offering a speedy, timely and efficLency service to financial institutions. As
Sri Lanka has relatively limited experience in this type of operation, a number
of problems relating to the development of the credlt informatLon system and
the data base have arisen, including collection of basic data, and these would
be addressed under the project. TA funding would be provided by ADB. TOR for
the assistance are held on the Project File.
10.      SMI Development Policies and Strategies.  Since 1977, GOSL has sub-
stantially liberalized trade and industrial sector policies and regulationst
this process continued into the late 1980s. In 1988, GOSL disbanded the Local
Investment Advisory Committee, a legacy of the previously controlled economy,
which had to appLave all domestic investments. In 1989, GOSL eliminated the
100Z tax on the transfer of equity shares between foreigners. At about the
same time, GOSL repealed legislation from the 1970. enabling the expropriation
of any private concern if this was considered by GOSL to be in the country's
interest and further action was taken to merge the Foreign Investment Advisory
Committee with the Greater Colombo Economic Coumission and to deregulate cargo
freight rates for shipping lines.
11.      Nevertheless, the business community continues to feel that business
operations are excessively encumbered by bureaucratic procedures. This is
being addressed under TA to promote exports and investments (para. 5 above).
Moreover, there does not appear to be any cohesive policies and strategies to
develop the small and medium industries sector, which GOSL has identified as
one of the prime areas in enhanclng the role of the private sector in economic
development. There also appears to have been inadequate coordination among the
line ministries under ongoing SMI assistance programs, diminishing their
efficacy. Hence, there is a need to carefully assess the various constraints
and bottlenecks inhibiting the development of the SHI sector, to review the
current SMI programs to improve coordination, and to establish more effective
policies, programs, and systems to further assist SMI.
12.      For this purpose, a technical assistance component of US$258,000
equivalent has been formulated by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) tot
(a) identify the real needs of SMI entrepreneurs with a view to assessing
various constraints confronting them, including policy, infrastructural,
managerial, production, marketing, and financial constraints; (b) identify and
address the regulatory constraints imposed on SKI operations by, inter alia,
the Customs Act, the Exchange Control Act, the Labour Act, and the Export and
Import Control Act; (c) in the light of the extensive trade, industrial, and
financial sector reform programs underway, review those reform programs' impact
on SHI development; and (d) formulate GOSL's SMI assistance programs in the
medium term.
13.      This TA component will be executed by thl Ministry of Industries,
Science and Technology (MIST), and consultants will be engaged according to the
ADB's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. Over a period of six months, 24
staff months of consulting services would be required. ADB would provide
US$238,000 in grant finance to cover an estimated US$140,000 in foreign
currency costs and an estimated US$98,000 equivalent in local costs.



ATTACHMENT 1
to ANNEX 4
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SM IV) PROJECT
IDA-FINANCED TA
Fees    B3xense    Total
---------US$ '000--------
A. Institutional Development
1.   NDB and PCI Upgrading (Including Training)                  1,000      1.000
2.  Operational Reviews (SCBs)                         2,500                2,500
B.  Policy Development
3.  Export and Investment Promotion Polices
and Procedures                                      200        50        250
4.  Rationalization of Customs and Excise
Policies and Procedures                             1SO        SO        200
5.   Insurance Industry Policy Reform                    100       100        200
6.  Environmental Assessment Guidelines                  250        50        300
7.   Industrial and Financial Sector Policy
Reviews                                             -          SO         50
C. Project Implementation Support
8.  SMI Technical Assistance Fund                        500        -         500
TOTAL IDA ASSISTANCE                              3,700     1,300      5,000
-_          -_



-58-                           ANNEX 5
Plap 1 of 7
SRI LANKA
Fourth Small and Medium Industries (8MI IV) Pro1ect
THE APEX AGENCY : NDB
A. Oraanization and Management
History, Legal Framework, and Relationship with the Government
1.        The National Development Bank of Srl Lanka (NDB) was established on
January 24, 1979 under the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka Act (NDB Act)
with the authorized capital of Rs 2 billion and subscribed capital of Rs 600
million. Of the subscribed capital, Rs 450 million is paid in cash and the
balance comprises of promissory notes payable on demand. Sixty-seven percent
of the subscribed capital is owned by GOSL, and the remaining shares are owned
by CBSL (172), BOC (8S) and PB (82).
2.        NDB's principal objectives are to promote development of the
industrial and agricultural sectors by: (i) providing medium and long-term
credit; (ii) stimulating the development of the capital markets in Sri Lanka;
and (iii) mobilizing internal and external capital resources. NDB is also
empowered to guarantee loans or other financial obligations, extend loans by
way of refinancing, provide equity and debenture financing, underwrite public
equity and debenture issues, accept term deposits, and issue letters of credit.
Its Act also empowers NDB to set up subsidiaries.  In 1984, NDB established the
Capital Development Investment Company (CDIC) to promote and mobilize equity
investments for large projects. This subsidiary is majority owned by NDB with
equity contributions also from the Government, BOC, PB and the Export
Development Board. NDB caters to the financial needs of both public and
private sector enterprises.
3.        In accordance with the NDB Act, the GovernmeLt bears the exchange
risk on NDB's external borrowings and guarantees NDB's borrowings from external
sources when required. The NDB Act provides for a ten-year tax holiday which
expired on December 31, 1989. NDB falls under the supervision of the Ministry
of Finance. The administrative budget is subject to approval by the Minister
of Finance, but, overall, NDB has been given full autonomy for its operations.
Management
4.        NDB's Board of Directors has six members who are appointed with the
concurrence of the Minister of Finance. The present Board consists of the
Secretary of the Treasury (ex-officio), one director each from the CBSL, BOC
and PB, and a director from External Resources nominated by the Ministry of
Finance. The full-time Chairman of the Board is appointed for a period of four
y'uars. The current Chairman, Mr. B. Mahadeva, was appointed in March, 1989 and
was previously Chairman of DFCC. NDB's Board meets crce a month to review
progress, set policies, and take decisions on matters relating to staff
appointments, promotions and salaries.



-59-                           ANMEX 5
Page 2 of 7
Orianization
S.        Following completion of an IDA.financed study In 1988, MDI has
implemented organizational changes to improve efficiency and diversify
activities. NDB has restructured its operations to provide for a board
demarcation of functions under two divisions, namely an Operations Division and
a Services Division (Attachment 1)   The Operations Division includes project
and equipment financing, merchant basking, a special projects office and the
SMI unit for administering the SKI Fund. The Services Division contains
treasury and finance operations, computer services, administration, personnel
and training offices. Under the General Manager, each division is headed by a
Deputy General Manager and supported by three Assistant General Managers. The
new organization structure appears to be vorking well and has provided NDB with
greater flexibility and improved decision.making capabilities. A number of
management positions are currently vacant following the reorgaisation. NDB
has been attempting to fill these positions, but has experienced difficulties
in attracting qualified candidates due to the higher salaries paid by private
commercial banks. It is necessary that NDB be provided with a greater salary
deternmination authority in order to strengthen recruitment incentives.
6.        Coordination among the divisions and unlts is maintained through two
committees, a Management Comittee and Heads of Department Commlttee. As part
of its reorganization, NDB has increased the loan approval authorities provided
to various levels of Management in order to increase responsibility and
accountability for decisions. This in turn has reduced the need for a number
of project review comittees which previously were in place. Staff are of the
opinion this downward delegation of authority has improved response time ithin
-DB without dlminishing the quality of decisions.
Staff and Training
7.        As of December 31, 1990, ND8Is staff complement totalled 160,
consisting of 80 professional staff and 80 support staff. Total staff have
decreased slightly as a result of the reorganization and professional staff
turnover. NDB is selectively recruiting individuals to fill vacant
professional positions, not all of which are to be filled imaediately. To
attract and retain mlddle and junior executive staff, MDI has restructured the
position classifications and approved operating principles governing the
recruitment and promotion of executive staff. These changes are appropriate
and should assist in stabilizing staff turnover.
8.        NDB continues to place strong emphasis on training its staff, both
locally and abroad, in order to improve efficiency. During FY89190, 15
officers participated In international training programs covering project
supervision, investment promotion, merchant banking and computer applications.
Courses were also held locally by NDB for junior staff on all aspects of its
operations.



-60-                           ANNEX S
Page 3 of 7
B. OperatLons
9.        PolicLes.  NDB operations are governed by the NDB Act and Operating
Pollcy Statement (see Annex 9) adopted ln January 1980. NDB's Operating Pollcy
Statement contaLns appropriate financial criterLa whiLch have been conslstently
met--a maximum debtlequity ratio of 8:l, a maximum sLngle enterprise exposure
of lOZ of NDB'e equity, and a maximum equity investment exposure in a slngle
enterprlse not exceeding 5S of NDB's equity. The Operating Policy Statement
emphasLzed NDB's role in project promotion and technLcal asuiutance provision.
These areas have not been developed to date in Light of staffing constraints.
In addition NDB has concentrated greater attention of developLng staff skills
and more recently has focused attentlon on lts reorganLzation and shift to its
new building whlch took place in October 1989. The Operatlng Policy Statement
also contains an approprlate definltion of NDB's role in SMI activitles.
10.       As covenanted under IDA Flrst Industrial Development Project, NDB was
required to redefine its strategies for developlng Srl Lanka's capital markets
as provided for in its Operating Policy Statement. Thli resulted in the
formation of a Merchant Banking Unit in 1988 which is contributing to NDB
meetlng its mandated role. In 1989, NDB participated in the underwriting of
the shares of United Motors (Lanka) Limited, the first state-owned company
offered for public sale. NDB also participated in a consortium assembled to
restructure the capital base of Asian Cotton Mills Limlted. The Merchant
Banking Unit is presently working with DFCC and PB to promote an insurance
brokerage company.
11.       Activities.  NDB's dlrect lending operations provlde assistance in
local and foreign currencies to public and private enterprises in Sri Lanka.
Assistance can be in the form of: (i) medium- and long-term loans for fixed
assets and permanent working capital; (ii) refinancing and the purchase of
participations in loans made by other banking Listitutions; (iii) equity
iavestments; (iv) syndication of loans and equity financing; (v) underwriting
of equity and debenture issues; and (vi) guarantee operations. With the
establishment of its Merchant Banking Unit and through its wholly-owned
subsidiary, CDIC, NDB has begun to play a more active role in equity and
capital market operations. However, traditional activlties relating to project
finance will continue to be the predominant actlvities of NDB.
Procedures
12.       NDB's reorganization created four Project Units, organized on a
sectoral basis, with complete responsibility for the project cycle. Each unit
is staffed with engineers, financial analysts and lawyers who jointly unde.take
appraisals for large projects. In most cases, financing recommendations are
approved at the level of General manager or below. Currently, the General
Manager can approve project loans up to Rs 10.0 million and equipment loans up
to Rs 20.0 million. The officer recommending approval of an investment is
responsible for disbursement, supervision and follow-up, and collection. These
changes have increased the accountability of staff and in the long run will
contribute to improvements in project quality. Average processing time for an
investment has been reduced as a result of these changes and NDB now requlres
about three months to process a project from the date of lnitial application.
Disbursements for large loans are normally completed within 18 months. NDB is
currently administering about 560 loans.



-61-                            ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 7
13.       A Special Projects Unit has been established to oversee loans wLth
major arrears, technical, marketing and production problems.  This unit Ls
staffed by a Manager plus three officers. Currently, the Special Projects Unit
has 80 projects in its portfolio which includes 23 hotel loans rescheduled
under the CBSL's concessionary scheme. Greater attention to problem projects
should increase the likelihood of financial recovery and full repayment of
loans.
C. Past and Projected Operations
14.       The key operating indicators for FY86 to PY90 are given In Table 1
below.
Table 1: Susmary of NDB Operations
FY86-90
(Rs Million)
FY86      FY87      FY88       FY89       FY90
Total Approvals           1,033.2   1,029.8   1,428.5   1,758.2   2,978.4
Disbursements               822.3   1,050.5   1,070.3   1,027.2   2,172.4
Portfolio                 1,591.1   2,078.0   2,512.7   3,218.9   4,383.1
'otal Assets              2,564.3   3,250.8   3,771.3   4,187.5   5,517.0
Source: NDB
DDB's approvals increased on average by 191 annually from FY86 to FY90. The
total approvals has doubled in amount reaching Rs 3.0 billion in PY89. In
spite of the civil and economic unrest in FY90, NDB achieved a 701 increase in
its total approvals.  Of the total approvals, the loans refinanced from the SHI
Fund accounted for Rs 619 million, a 42S increase over PY89 (Rs 462 million).
The manufacturing industry too'- the largest share and received 54? of the
approvals in 1989. About 901 of loans and equity investment were sancyioned to
the private sector.
15.       Projected operations for FY91 to FY94 are shown below.
Pro1ected Approvals
FY90-94
(Rs Million)
FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94
Term Loans                             1,600     1,920     2,145      2,375
Working Capital Loans                    237       285        314       332
Leasing finance,                          36        48         60        72
Equity Investment                         S0        50         60        60
Total Approvals                        1,923     2,303     2,579      2,839
Sources NDB



-62-                           ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 7
Total approvals are projected to increase at an annual rate of 152 from Rs 1.6
billion in FY90 to Rs 2.8 billion in FY94. The annual Increase in approvals
for term loans is expected to be at about 16S, whille a 322 a*nual increase is
envisaged for leasing finance. Of the approvals of the term loans, about 50Z
is expected to be financed annually from the float of SMI Fund.
D. Financial Performance
16.       Overall Performance.  NDB's actual ane projected income statements,
cash flow statements and balance sheets for FY85 to MS93 are shown in
Attachments 1 and 2. Key financial indicators for the past five fiscal years
are presented below.
Table 3: Summary of NDB's Key Financial Indicators
FY86- 90
(Rs Klllion)
FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89      FY90
Total Assets             2,564.3   3,250.5  3,771.3   4,182.5   5,517.0
Loan Portfolio a/        1,879.6  2,527.7   3,006.0   3,320.2   4,534.2
Equity Investments          78.2      88.3     1,5.8     147.9     151.1
Arrears                    124.9    115.1      173.9     164.8        -
Total Income               253.6    309.3      393.2     458.5     697.5
Net Income After Tax       108.4      85.7     103.9     109.1     162.1
EquLty                   1,314.8   1,397.2   1,475.4   1,555.7   1,683.6
Long-Term Debt           1,192.5   1,742.4   2,041.9   2,411.3   3,470.4
Ratios
Debt/Equity Ratio            0.8sl     1.2.l     1.2.1     1.2:l      2.0:1
Debt Service Coverage        3.5       2.9      12.3       3.3        1.6:1
Return on Average Equity (Z) 9.8       7.0       8.0       8.0       16.6
Interest Spread              2.4       2.8       3.4       2.9       1.7
Earnings Spread              6.3       5.4       6.0       5.9        1.8
Operating Expenses/          1.2       1.0       1.0       0.9        0.9
Average Total Assets (2)
Current Ratio                6.1:1     7.4:l     3.1sl     2.5s1      1.711
Sources NDB
a/ Includes refinanced SI portfolio and current portion.
17.       MDI is conservatively structured with a strong rellance on equity
funding. The debt/equity ratio has remained at 1.2tl over the last three
years. Debt servLie coverage has been consistently higher than the minfimum
covenanted level of 1.2 times agreed to under IDP I-111. Return on average
equity has increasred from 9.8S in FY86 to 16.62 In FY90, which enable NDB to
meet the 9.02 return on average equity covenanted for Y90. Operating expenses
as a percentage of average total assets have been declining, which indlcates



-63-
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 7
NDB has had some success in curbLng staffLng growth and costs. Interest spread
performance has been mixed and generally low in light of the large SMI
refinanclng portfolio handled by NDP on whLch lt earns only 1t margin. Greater
emphasls ls required to dlverslfy and increase portfolio lending in order to
generate hlgher interest revenue. NDB's Management is aware of this earning
constraint and has been stepping up lending activity in other areas where vLder
margins are avallable.
18.       NDB's sources and appllcations of funds for FY90 is sumnarized below:
Summary of NDB's Sources and AnPlications of Funds
FY90
(Re Million)
FY90                  X
Source of Funds
Internal Cash Generation                  413.0              15.0
PortfolLo Recoveries                      792.0              30.0
Borrowings                              1,361.0              51.0
Others                                    117.0               4.0
Total                                   2,683.0             100.0
APPlications of Funds
Loan Disbursement                       2,181.0              81.0
Share Investment Dlsbursement              71.0               3.0
Debt Service                              301.0              11.0
DivLdend Payment                           27.0               1.0
Capltal Expenditure                        22.0               1.0
Increase in Working Capltal                81.0               3.0
Total                                2,683.0            100.0
Source: NDB
19.       Borrowings, most of which were provLded through ID and ADB, have
been NDB's major source of funds, accounting for 511 of the total sources of
funds. Internal cash generation has remained stable at around 15X. Disburs-
ement of loans accounted for 811 of NDB's fund applications over the period.
Debt servlce payments requLred only 112 of NDB's applicatlons. To date, NDB
has been able to cover all its domestLc resource requlrements from internal
cash generation and portfolio recoveries.
20.       Projected Financial Performance.  A sumary of NDB's projected
financial performance for the perlod FY91-94 is given below and detail1vd in
Attachments 2, 3 and 4.



-64-                           ANNEX S
Page 7 of 7
Summary of NDB's Pro1ected Financial Performance
FY91-94
(Rs Million)
FY ending December 31                 FY91      PY92       F93       FY94
Total Assets                         6,305     7,462      8,686     9,921
Loan Portfolio                       5,005     5,889      6,851     7,347
Total Income                           779       970      1,154     1,246
Net Income                             147       227        301       368
Equity                               1,795     1,995      2,269     2,610
Long-Term Debt                       3,958     4,800      5,611     6,387
Ratios
Debt/Equlty Ratlo (2)                  2.2sl     2.4:l      2.4:1     2.4:l
Debt Service                           2.5       2.4        2.3       2.3
Coverage (times)
Return on Equity                       9.2      13.0       15.1      16.0
Current Ratio                          3.1sl     3.2:l      3.1:1     3.6:1
Interest Spread (2)                    3.7       3.8        4.0       3.7
Earnings Spread (2)                    6.0       6.5        6.5       5.4
Sources NDB and the Hission
21.       NDB is projected to maintain a reasonable profitabilLty, a sound
financial position and adequate liquidity during the forecast period. However,
the profitability is projected to drop after 1990 due to NDB's efforts for
diversifying its portfolio towards high return investments. The projection
indicates that NDB will maintain a strong liquidity and debt-servlce coverage
position throughout the projected period.
22.       Portfolio Management.  Under the ongoing IDPs, NDB is required to
maintain an annual collection ratio of at least 752. In 1988, the collection
ratio dropped to 64.1S as a result of the civil disturbances and a build up of
:ird core arrears. IDA suspended commitments. However, NDB undertook an
extensive portfolio review which involved increased loan provisioning, the
write-off of loans wLth hard core arrears and lodging of court cases against
defaulters. As a result, collection performance improved to slLghtly over 75S
during January-August, 1989 and the commitment suspension was lifted in
January, 1990. NDB expects that portfolio collection will continue to improve,
due to better credit discipline being instilled in its borrowers as a result of
legal proceedings initiated against defaulters under the new debt recovery laws
enacted in February, 1990.
23.       Compliance with Covenants.  Both the Government (the Borrower) and
NDB have essentLally complied with the covenants under the previous IDA credit
except the lapse in maintaining an annual collectlon vatio of 75? as noted in
paragraph 19 above.



-65-                                            ATTACHMENT I
To ANNEX 6
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMW IV) PROJECT
NATIONAL DEVELOPMNT BANK OF SRI LANKA
Actual and Projected Income Statements for FYI 985-1994
(SLRs Million)
.CUAL                              PROJECTED
FY Ended at Oewmber 31               18s  19i9  1967  lw   106t   1090  1991   1902   1I=B    1994
REVENUE;
Interest trom Loas                               173.9 161.3 200.4 264.6 310.3  510.8 618.4   870.8  1.019.7  1.2443
Intered krom SMI Loans                            14.1  23.0  41.7  58.7  63.0  107.0  151.2   233.0   346.0   401.0
Interest rom Fixed Deposits                       66.7  84.8  41.6 50.9  87O          60.0  64.2    99.0   146.0   227.0
Income from Equity Invedments                      1.6   2.9   1.7   1. 9 20        7.0   7.6    17.0    22.0    20.0
Other Income                                       9.2  11.6  15.0  17.1  18.4   13.0  36.8    40.4    43.5    47.5
Tobl Revenue                                      MA5 5    &   MID1   MI 3  i3 2_Li im1    ZI6 1     2  16752  19488
OTHER EXPENSES
Interest on Borrowings                            52.9  84.2  123.9 156.8  181.4  241.1  390.7   89.2   815.8  1.082.2
Administration Expense                            24.8  27.7  29.2  336  35.8   44.2  64.8    70.2    76.2    82.8
Provision for Doubtful Aeeounts                   81.0  32.7  69.8  07.3  130.6  157.5  184.8   170.0   155.0   163.0
Depreciaton                                        0.6   0.6   0.7   1.    1.6   11.6  14.0    15.0    16.0    15.0
Total Operating Expenew                           MA& 2L4I 2so   Ma 349.   54d e 3 844L    I OIU   1.343.0
NET INCOME BEFORE TAX#                            106.1  108.   85.7 103.0 109.1  243.1  223.9   41.8   513.2   605.8
Less: Tax                                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   81.0  148.0   200.0   230.0   265.0
Net Profit after Tax                             106.1  108.5  85.7  103.9  109.1   1621   78.9   215.8   263.2   340.8
Less: Dividend                                    27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0    7.0  27.0    27.0    27.0    n7.0
Proft Carried Down                78    ffij      1M2   A6 MA  mN 3u
RATIOS:
Retum on Average Equity(OS)a)(After Tax)          10.6   0.8   7.1   8.1   1.0   16.6   5.4    13S         15.6    16.2
Retumrn Average Total Asets(OA) bt                 0.4   9.0   7.6   7.8   7.8    8.2   7.7    10.1    10.3    11.2
Administave and General Expense                                                                    0.9
Average Total Afhe                                 1.5   1.3   1.1   1.0   0.9    1.0   1.1        6.4      0.7     0.8
Interest Spread cd                                 7.2   L4   2       a4   3.9    5.0   4.6        7.1      5.0     4.9
Earnings Spread di                                10.6   6.2   54   5.9   0.3    9.6   6.7         65       61      54
Soures: PIDBSL
Not Income Aftr Tax-Before DMdend
af Retum on Average Equity -
Average Equity (without Promiory Note)
Not Incomo After Tax-Beore DNldsnt4nterng on Browing
bt Retum on Average Total A t s.
Avrage Tol Asst (Without Promssory Nat)
intre Earned rom Loans                             Intoret on Loans
c Intrest Spread  -
Average Loan p  nhluding Current Ma?urity  Avage Long-Tem Ubainnluding CurM Matut and Equity
inrest from Total Portdolo                    Interet on Loans-DvIdends Doelared
di Earnings Spread.
Average Loans Including Current Maturity and invstnments pr Averooe Long-Term Uability Including Currant Maturity
and Equity
NOTES: * - Does not Include adjustments In rest of pravious y



-66-
ToANNE3tO
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSRIRES (SMI IV) PROJECT
NATIONAL DEVELCOPMUN BANK OF SRI LANKA
Actua and Projected Balance Sheets for FY1985-FY1994
.                            ~~~~~~~ActulPIjco
FYddom  De*nbwsl              196    166    1       1|     1ow    im        16    16 I     |            1
CurrntAnIe
Cash and Bank Depost         467.1  42.0  431.4   64.2  W9u38   403.6    40.2  957.6   1,782.6   3,0005
Aoorued ncom                  28w3   29.7   02.6   89.2   29.0    360       602   128.3      183.3     172.3
Curn mdmatit
of ian po0.1o18             275.9  866.7  63.0  619.1  619.0  064.0  1,100.0 1,730.0   2,157.0   2,686.0
Promlsory notes              150.0  180.0  150.0  150.0  160.0   150.0   150.0  160.0        160.0     150.0
O0he                          67.9  109.6  126.0  226.6  360.7   3864    151*   202.7       234.2      265.7
Totl Curren Ases               9.2 1,078.2 1270.9 18396.3 1,564.5  1,060.6  1,911.2 3.106   4,427.1  6,211.5
Loan Paotflo net of
curent maurite             1,053.6 1,512.9 1,9.7 2,a86.9 2,786.4  8,6769  5J,6.0 6,29.    7,427.6   6,438.1
Equity w    _nwat             71.3   78.2   6.3  1256.  147.9   251.1   206.4  254          300.4      455.4
Told Long_em portfo        1,124.9 1,501.1 2,078.0 2,512.7 2,86.3  4,126.0  6,577.4 6674.2   7,766.0   8,694.5
Los prowion for lse          121.4  177.8  236.6  323.8  41.4   520A    60*0  779.0         008.0   1,040.0
Not Ponfofio                1,003.5 1,$3.3 1,642.2 2,183.9 2,424.9  3,007.6  4,9U.6 5,752    6,660.0    7,654.5
Net Fixd Asset                 10.4   17.8   40.4   64.1  114.0   126.0   140.0  130.0       120.0      115.0
Inwatmwet In Asocate
Companies                    80.0   55.0   65.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0  100.         100.0     100.0
Told Mefs                   2,023.1 2,564.3 3*50W.5 8,771.3 4,167A4  5,517.0  7,007. 9,192.0  11,537.1  14,261.0
U8LIABIMESMIDEQUI|TY:
Currnt L.abmiies
CurretMadurite 
Long-Tm  ebtds                49.0   72.0   61.0  165.3  195.3   3169    3U8.0  342.0       373.0      373.0
Accrued Intwet                60.2   49.6   73.7  160,0  106.5      0.0   163LO  342.7      5 86.      794.5
Other                         32.0   67.0   37.3   63 1    51.6    44.1   146.7  1137        173.7     206.7
Total Current 1bIltmles      171.2  1.786  172.0  446.2  415.6   830.0   668.7  658.4   1,083.5   1,376.2
Net TM o  LnUabitie          662.3 1,070.7 1,661.3 1,6E46.  2,210.0  3.470.4  4,776.6 6,U49.5   6,348.3  10,495.7
ToWL UbSlis                   33US 1,249A.5 1533 2*6.9 2,031.0  3W,63.4  5,447.5 7,8L29O   9,4318   11.t71.9
Equity
Paid up Shae Capia           600.0  60000. 0    6. 000.06 000.0    600.0          600.0    6o0.0    o60.0
Pasein  & PaRb ned Earnings  69.6  714A.  797.2  875.4  9665.  1L03   1,050.3 1,289.1   1,405.3   1,609.1
Tot EquIy                   1,189.6 1,31468 1,07.2 1,475O4 1,85*C  1,663.6  1 ,9,3 1,639.1   2,066.3   2,409.1
Totd UldUIINe & EquiNy      2,023.1 2,664.3 3,250.5 3,771.3 4,187.4  5,517.0  7,097.6 9,196L0   11,627.1   14S1.0
PAM
Currnt                        672   0.03   7,2   S.11   8.70    4.03        2.60   3.70      4.10       4.50
Long Term DebLtEquity         OM0   0.61   1.20   1.25   1.40    2.6        2.L0   3.80      4.00       4.40
PrIasnsas *wcwntaeod
Own and Equity Pcstfollo)   10.79  11.17  11.25  12.66  15.66   18.70    11.31  11.65       11.06     11.69
Source: ND6BL



-67-                              ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANMA
Fourth Small and Medium Industrles (SMI IV) Proiect
The SMI Fund
Organization and Staffing
1.        Under SMI I (Cr.942-CE) approved in 1979, an SMI Account was estab-
lished by NDB to account for the maturities differential arising from its
liabilities to GOSL for SMI operations and the repayment schedules of the PCIs.
The Fund is administered by NDB's SMI Unit headed by an AGM. The Unit functions
as the apex agency which operates the SMI Fund to recycle the repayments from
subloans under the ongoing operations. The Unit also carries out the adminis-
tration and repotting requirements of the SMI projects.
2.        NDB SMI operations are organized Into six main sections within the SMI
Unit. The Analysis and Review Section reviews PCIs' appraisals and refinance
applications. The Reporting and Liaison Section prepares periodic reports on the
accredited institutions' lending and collection performance, and maintains
accounts. Three other sections are responsible for monitoring and supervision,
training and subsector analysis. Professional staff consist of a manager, six
section heads, six analysts and nine other officers. NDB has had some difficulty
recruiting and retaining senior staff due to the exodus of experienced staff from
Sri Lanka. Despite staffing problems and higher than *xpected SMI operations,
NDB has effectively administered the Fund. The emphasis has been on developing
procedures, reviewing reimbursement applications, and upgrading PCIs' appraisal
and end use standards through formalized training programs. NDB has also made
subproject review more systematic bys establishing norms for key aspects of
appraisal, including appropriate level of permanent working capital, land and
buildings; preparing subsector analyses to avoid over-investment and to identify
market opportunities, and providing information on appropriate equipment.
Policies and Procedures
3.        'While integrated into NDB's operations, the use of the'SMI Fund is
determined by specific policies, and the resource are administered by specially
assigned staff, separate financial resources and accounting systems. A Policy
Statement has been established for the operation of the SMI Fund (Attachment 1)
which defines the Fund's objectlves and provides guidelines for utilizing the SMI
reflows.  The Statement requires that projects to be financed have to be
financially sound and economically viable, and the projects' design, construc-
tion, operation and maintenance must be In line with internationally accepted
safety codes and environmental protection controls. The Policy Statement
specifies the responsibilities of relevant parties such as the Board of Directors
of NDB, the General Manager of NDB and each PCI. The Pollcy Statment also
provides the key terms and conditions under which refinancIng wil be provided.
This Policy Statement remains appropriate for the operation of the SKI Fund under
the proposed Project.
4.        The adminLstrative procedures for the SI Fund under the proposed,
Project are summarized In Attachment 2. These procedures were developed and have
operated effectlvely for the previous SMI Projects adminLotered by NDB. The
procedures provide for a complete revLew of the documentation for projects above
the subloan free-limlt and sample checks below the free-limit. IDA is of the
view that these administrative procedures cemain appropriate for the proposed
Project after modifLcations concomltant to the proposed changes In the toens and



-68-                               A VI=  6
Page 2 of 2
conditions of the Project.  To assist the PCIs in appraising projects and
requesting refinancing, NDB has issued comprehensive operating instructions to
the PCIs. Items covered in this instruction booklet includes (i) appraisal
format; (ii) refinancing and disLursement procedures; (iLi) monitoring report
formats; (iv) countrLes eligible as source of procurement; and (v) specimen
project completion report. In part, distribution of this booklet has contributed
to the expeditious utilization of resources and improved reporting under the
ongoing SMI Project.
SMI Fund Utilization
5.        The actual and projected levels of operation for the SMI Fund for PY85-
94 are shown in Attachment 3. Growth of the SMI Fund has been generally
positive, however, commitment declined in FY87-88 as a result of the civil
disturbances which caused many branch beaks to close for extended periods. The
commitment posltion improved in 1989. and projections forecast steady growth by
the period from PY90-94. Up to December 31, 1990, the SMI Fund has assisted a
total of more than 6,000 projects with the refinancing commltments through the
PCIs of Rs 2.5 billion. As of December 31, 1990, SMI III and ADB's SMI I had
been fully committed. The total disbursements were about Rs 600 million (US$15
million), 34X of the total loan amount of the ADB's SMI I and IDA's SKI III.
6.        The major beneficiaries of the refinance provided through the SMI Fund
are the two State Commercial Banks (SCBs)--the Bank of Ceylon (BOC) and Peoples
Bank lPB)--which have the largest branch networks among the PCIs. In 1990, these
two banks accounted for 63Z of all refinance commitments made by the Fund. PB
which was previously less actlve in SKI lending, has made a concerted effort to
expand activities in this area and is now the second largest recipient of the SMI
refinance. Lending activities of DFCC declined during FY88-90 as greater
attention was focused on larger industrial projects, but is projected to
increased from PY91 onwards. The smaller camercial banks (MOB, CBOC and SB)
have shown marked increases in their SMI lending but continue to contribute
relatively a minor share in the total commitments.
Financial PosLtion
7.        Within its overall accounts, NDB maintains accounts for the SMI Fund,
although as NDB Is liable for repayment of loans under the SMI Projects, the SKI
Fund is fully incorporated Into NDB'. financial statements. Attachment 4
summarizes the actual and projected financLal positlon of the SMI Fund from PY8S-
94. The Fund has maintained a strong liquLdLty posltlon resulting from a
mismatching of repayment terms for on-lendLng from the Government and for
refinancing from NDB. A hlgh liquLdLty position ls projected under the proposed
Project. The current liquLdLty in the SMI Fund will back-up the Fund's
operations durLng the period between the full commitment of the ougoing SMI
Project and the effectLveness of the proposed Project.
Portfollo QualLty
8.        The overall arrears posltion for the SKI portfolio of the PCIs is
summarized In Attachment 5. As of December 31, 1990, the total SMI subloans
outstandlng (including interest) amounted to Rs 14 billlon, of whLch, Rs 284
mllion or 212 ls in arrears. As of September 30, 1990, the cumulatlve
collectlon ratio stood at 8S.8SZ hlle the annual collectlon ratio in 1989 was
about 82.7Z. As of September 30, 1990, all PCIs met the partLeLpating condltlon
in terms of annual collectlon ratio and portfollo infectLon ratlo.



-69-                             ATTACHMENT 1
to ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANRA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (S4I IV) PROJECT
Statement of Policies and Procedures for the Use of the SMI Fund
Objectives
1.        The purpose of the Fund is to facilitate access to credit by SMIs,
through PCIs, mounting sound and economically viable projects by encouraging
and assisting credit institutions to make loans on the basis of project
appraisals rather than collateral security and providing partial refinancing
for such loans on appropriate terms and conditions.
Eligible Credit Institutions
2.        Commercial banks and other credit institutions approved by the
CBSL/MOF which enter into Participation Agreements with NDB will be eligible
for refinancing. These agreements will specify: the responsibilities of the
credit institutions for project promotion, appraisal, supervision, repayment of
financing provided, and for compliance with CBSLIMOF operational guidelines;
minimum SMI staffing and SMI policies. These agreements will provide the
contractual basis on which loans will be financed.
Eliaible Proiects
3.        Loans made to private or cooperative enterprises engaged in produc-
tive operations including, inter alia, manufacturing, mining, construction,
agro-industry, fish processing, handicraft production, or providing industrial
services, would be eligible for financing provided thats
(a) the total original cost of fixed assets excluding land and buildings,
of the enterprise does not exceed Rs 8 million before mounting the
proposed project;
(b) the total amount of the subloan does not exceed Rs 8 million;
(c) the project is financially sound and economically viable, with due
account being taken of such factors as labor intensity, export
potential, use of local raw materials, and ability to produce at
competitive prices;
(d) the project will result in the creation of new productive capacity,
allow the enterprise to increase its level of production, or improve
the quality or price competitiveness of its products;



-70-                              ATTACHMENT 1
to ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
(e)  the project will be desigued, constructed, operated and maintained in
accordance with internationally accepted safety codes and Inspection
standard, as well as environmental protection controls and in a
manner manimizing deterioration of the natural environment; and
lf)  the loan to be financed is made on term  and conditions approved by
NDB.
Resources of the Fund
4.        The resources of the Fund will comprise capital contributions
provlded by NDB, loans obtained from natlonal or International institutions and
any surplus derlving from lts refinancing operations. NDB will use the
resources of the Fund to finance loans and undertake other authorized
activities.
Direction and Management
5.        Overall responsibility for establishing operational and financial
policies of the use of the Fund will be vested in the Board of Directors of
NDB. The operations of the Fund wvll be managed by a Manager appointed by the
Board of Directors. The General Manager of the NDB or his designee will be
responsible for:
(a)  approving loans for financing;
(b)  approving requests for technical assistance funds;
Sc)  recruiting and managing an adequate suppor Ing staff;
(d)  promoting improvements in the project appraisal capabllities of
participating credit institutions, through supervision and
monLtoring; and
(e)  performing such other task and functions as are necessary to achieve
the objectlves of the Fund.
Terms of Finance
6.        The terms and conditions under which financing will be provided will
be established from time to time by the Directors, according to the following
principles:
(a)  the project sponsor and the credit instltutlon should make an
adequate contribution to financing the project from thelr own
resources;
(b)  interest rates paid by the enterprises being financed should reflect
commercial interest rates and may be adjusted on a semi-annually
basis;



-71-                              ATTACHWENT 1
to ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
(c) the interest rate charged to credit institutions on financed loans
should be equal to, but not less than, the overage weighted cost of
non demand deposits (AWDR), excludLg non demand deposits of less
than 12 months as determined by the CBSL from time to tLme; and
(d) loan maturities and grace periods should reflect the repayment
capacity of the project to be financed.
Credit Risks and Maturities
7.        The credit institutions shall be responsible for repaying sub-loan
amounts to the Fund according to the agreed schedule, regardless of whether the
credit institution has received repayment from the enterprise to which the sub-
loan was made. Unless otherwise agreed by NDB, the repayment schedule for the
sub-loans financed shall extend for the same period as the loan financed and
shall include a similar grace period for the repayment of principal, provided
the grace period is appropriate in the circumstances and does not exceed three
years and the maximum period for repayment of principal shall not exceed ten
years. Loans having a repayment period of less than three years will not
normally be eligible for financing.
Other Responsibilites of Credit Institutions
8.        k'articipation Agreements between NDB and the Credit Institutions will
requlre the Credit Institutions to$
(a) ensure that financing provided is applied fully and exclusively for
the purposes agreed when the loan was made; and
(b) provide such information on the progress of the projects and
enterprises financed as NDB may reasonably request.



-72-
ATTACHMENT 2
to ANNEX 6
Page I of 2
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES lSMI IV) PROJECT
ADMNISTRATION PROCEDURES FOR THE OPERATION OF THE SMI FUND
A.  Procurement
1.        Procurement under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with
ADB/IDA procurement guidelines. The PCIs will be responsible for ensuring that
goods procured by sub-borrowers under the Credit are purchased at reasonable
and competitive prices, with due account being taken of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery, quality, suitability of goods and availability of
spare parts. The PCIs are required to maintain records relating to the methods
of procurement and the offers and awards per subproject, and monitor the utili-
zation of subloan funds for procurement through regular site supervision
visits. Procurement of goods and services for ADB's and IDA's technical
assistance components will be in accordance with their respective procurement
guidelines.
B.   Disbursement Procedures
2.        Subloan disbursements for foreign and local expenditures will be
eligible for financing by the SMI Fund for up to 702 of the subloan amount; ADB
and IDA will reimburse lOOZ of the SKI Fund's financed amounts for eligible SMI
subloans. With the large number and small sizes of subloans involved, normal
procedures of disbursing against documented expenditures on individual sub-
project accounts would be inappropriate for most subprojects. ADB and IDA will
disburse on the basis of NDB's certified periodic statements of expenditures
incurred up to 120 days prior to the finance application. This documentation
would be retained by NDB for inspection during ADB/IDA supervision missions.
All statements of expenditure, together with supporting documentation, will be
audited annually. Full documentation of expenditure on fixed assets (excluding
permanent working capital) will be submitted to the ADB/IDA prior to ADB/IDA
disbursements for subprojects with financed amounts in excess of US$200,000.
Prior authorization by ADBIIDA for goods and services under technical
assistance will be required.
C. ReDorting, Accounts and Auditing
3.        NDB will submit quarterly reports to ADB/IDA on SMI lending acti-
vities as well as progress under the technical assistance component. The main
report will be an aggregation of the PCI's quarterly reports which will cover
SKI staffing and training, lending activities, supervision action, collection
and arrears performance and portfolio data. Technical assistance reports will
summarize: implementation progress on aspects outlined in agreed actions
programs; steps to be taken during the next quarter; and estimates of impact of
activities on employment, productivity and exports. In addition, NDB will
submit a quarterly report on the use of the SMI Fund and related activities,



-73-
ATTACHMENT 2
to ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
and evaluation of characteristics of SMI sub-borrowers and impact of sub-
projects. Reports would have a content and format satlsfactory to ADB/IDA and
will be accompanied by an overall review of the SHI sector in Sri Lanka.
Quarterly reports will be submitted within 45 days of quarter end. A separate
statement of account for the use of the SMI Fund will be provided annually by
the Auditor General of Sri Lanka or a designated private auditing firm, in a
format satisfactory to ADB/IDA not later than four months after the close of
each fiscal year; project accounts of the Export Development Board would also
be audited. If the Auditor General designates a private auditing firm, the
firm would need to be satisfactory to ADB/IDA and would be selected for at
least the duration of the project to ensure continuLty.



74                                           ATTAOHMENT3
ToANNEXO
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRES (SMI IV) PROJC
Actua and Projected Opeatio.u (FY19S-FY1994)
(SLR Milion)
Actual                           Projeted
FY ended 31 December                    1985  1986  1987  198  1998  190 W   1991  1002  193  1094
COMMITMENTS:
Bank of Ceylon                         129.6 131.0 164.9  85.2 139.8 142J      193.0 217.  230.6 283.6
People's Bank                           67.8  91.0  34.   3.0 107.4 18.6    196.0 217.6 239.6 218.6
Commercial Bank of Ceylon                7.0  15.8  16.3  12.0  109.  36.3      39.0  43.0  47.9  62.7
Hatton Natlonal Bank                    12.2  6.    6.2   5.4  30.4  43.7       52.  86.1  03.0  70.3
Development Finanoe Corporation of Ceylon  87.0 132.3  74.2  80.0  62.  117.0    118.  130.7 143.7 1568.1
Sampath Bank                                              17.0  35  38.4       59i  58.1  63.9  70.3
RRDBS. Seylan Bank
and other new PCIl                                                     3.7     60.0  06.0  72.6  79.0
Total                                  303.8 378.7 347.4 238.2 394.6 569.4    720.0 792.1 871.2 968.5
DISBURSEMENTS:
Bank of Ceylon                          62.0  96.  191.5 107.6  75.7 120.3    151.9 185.6 204.2 214.5
People's Bank                           30.6  26.0  61.9  55.6  56.3 118.4    151.9 185.6 204.2 214.6
Commercia' Bank of Ceylon                6.2  10.0  14.5  17.0  10.5  25.2      30.4  37.2  40.J  42.9
Hatton National Bank                     5.4  14.5  4.7   8.0  14.9  34.0       40.8  49.6  64.4  67.2
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon  33.2  80.6  90.7  91.9  70.4  86.6   91.2 111.4 122.5 128.7
Sampath Bank                                               4.9  24.4  34.7      40.5  49.5  54.4  67.2
RRDBS, Seylan Bank
and other now PCOW                                                    2.9      46.0  60.2  61.9  65.0
Total                                  127.4 220.9 303.3 286.0 257.2 429.0    652.4 675.0 742.4 780.0
REPAYMENTS:
Bank of Ceylon                          18.8  22.6  46.5  79.6  8;' .  76.4     89.5  98.8 111.6 127.6
People's Bank                           17.2  15.9  25.5  35.2  44.5  55.8      83.9  98.8 111.8 127.6
Commercial Bank of Ceylon                5.2   5.0  7.1   9.9   9.4  16.6       17.9  19.8  22.4  25.6
Hatton National Bank                     6.1   6.2   7.5   0.8   8.6  15.0      24.7  20.3  29.8  34.0
Development Finance Corporatlon of Ceylon  1.0   4.2  20.6  39.5  82.3  71.2    61.4  59.3  67.1  76.5
Sampath Bank                                                     0.3  24.6      17.6  26.3  29.8  34.0
RRDBS. Seylan Bank
and other new PCis                                                              2.1  26.9  33.8  38.7
Total                                   48.9  67.9 106.2 174.0 200.5 259.0    297.0 359.2 406.5 463.9
Source: NDBSL and POlb
a/ FY9o data subect to adjustment based upon final submIsions.



_75-                                          ATTACHMENT 4
ToMNNEXo
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI IV) PROJECT
Actual and Projected Financial Position (FY1985--FY1994)
(SLRs million)
A o t u a I                            Prolooted
FY ended Decomber 31             1985  1980  1987  198U   19   190 at   1O91  1992   1963    1664
Interest Income                   54.3  00.0  62.1  125.1 147.7  171.0      173.5 165      218.3   275.6
-Les:Intereetpald                 20.3  16.8  39.5  -    122.6 1.0           111.0  110.4   130.0   100.0
- Less:Adm. charges                4.1   5.4   7.0   9.5  11.0   0.0         10.0  M0.0    11.0    12.0
Operating surplus for tho yer     29.0  30.1  3.0  116.0  14.1   7.0         52.5  02.4    77.3   103.0
Plus repayment. received
from PCIb                        48.9  57.9 111.2  176   210.2 227.0       25.0  311.6   905.0   328.
LessRepayymoent made by NOD
to IDA/ADB                      152  30.6  31    -      40.4  154.9      175.? 190.0   14.8   24.0
33.7  27.3  79.7 176.3 163.   72.1         80.9 1150   130    124.
Increase (Dorease) In
liquldity from operations
(Tol A)                          63.6  63.4  115.3 294.9  177.0  79.1       1334  177.4   256.1   223.4
Opening cash balance             250.3 299.8 329.0 442.1 6a6.4 704.4        729.1  084.4   77.   1.035*
Plus drawdown from
IDAIAB - 8MII                     7.6   -    -         -     -            -        -      -
- Cml l                     105.7  192.7 301.1  75.4  -      -           -     -     _        _
- sMI III                    -     -      -    109.0 237.  284.6       2904.3  -     _        _
- 8MI IV                     -     -      -     -     -      -           -    671.0   742.4   780.0
Plus Increase (Decrease) In
liquidity from operations
(Totda A)                        63.6  63.4 115.3 204.9  177.0  79.1       1334  177.4   268.1   223.4
Decrease In receivables
Lews:Dlsbursements               127.4 226.9 303.3 286.5 257.2 429.0        6624 675.0   742.4   780.0
Closing cash balance             299.9 329.0 442.1  630.4  794.4 729.1      604.4 7776  1.0359  1264.3
Soure: NDOSL
a' FYO balanoes subject to adjudment to reflect final PCI submIsIons.



-76-                   ATTACHET 5
To ANNEX 6
d W
|~~~~ S l=S 1   
S U



-77-                              ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 8
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI IV) PROJECT
PERFORMANCE OF PARTICIPATING CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
The Domestic Commercial Banks
1.        Sri Lanka's four private domestic banks can be briefly described as
followst
(a) CBOC was established as a public company in 1969 as a way of getting
around statutory limitations on branch expansion. It is 401 owned by
Chartered Bank, 31U by four public sector corporations, and 28? by
the general public. It now has 16 branches, largely in the Colombo
and Kandy areas, and has concentrated on financing private sector
trade, probably utilizing its Chartered Bank association and prime
name customers. In 1987, bad and doubtful loans amounted to about
132 of portfolio. It has a strong profit orientation and, hence,
development financing activities are a relatively small part of its
business. Nonetheless, it has two government representatives on its
Board of Directors. CBOC has a relatively well developed in-house
training capability.
(b) HNB was establisied in 1970 as a limited liability company by
combining Grindlay's local branches with the Hatton Bank Ltd., a
doomestic bank established in 1881. It is 26Z owned by the Brown
industrial group, 331 by the Stassen group cf private export
companies, with the remainder owned by individual and institutional
investors. It has 35 branches, 25 of which are outside Colombo. It
concentrates on providing short term financing to traders and local
blue-chip businesses and has limited its development lending largely
to the SMI program. It is strongly positioned in financing exports
of tea, garments, electronics and engineering services. In 1987, 10I
of its portfolio was categorized as non-performing and an additional
131 was subject to some arrears. Like CBOC, fNB has a well developed
in-house training program but has had problems in recent years with
high employee turnover for officers,
(c) Sampath has grown very rapidly since its inception in 1987 as a
public company and now has 11 branches and a 31 market share.
Sampath has more than 12,000 shareholders with no single shareholder
holding more than 101. It plans ad additional public offering at
some future date. Sampath is characterized by a high level of
mechani;ation and sophisticated technology. It has pioneeret in
adopting automatic teller machires (ATHs) and credit cards. Whlle it
concentrates on short-term advances, foreign exchange transactions
and import/export financing, it is attempting to provide a full range
of banking services and appears intent on becoming more active in
smaller cities and in development lending than have other private
domestic banks. Sampath has aggressively expanded from a seemlngly
sound base and may be well positioned to take advantage of the



-78-                                 ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 8
relative irefficiency of the two state banks. On the other hand,
while its overall arrears may be low because it is so new, it had
already had slgniflcant problems with bad debt. Sampath may have
expanded too rapidly and be in need of a period of consolidation.
(d)  Seylan commenced operatLons as a public company in 1988 and nov has
siz branches largely in the Colombo area. It is 1SZ owned by
Ceylinco (a private finance group), 10 by the two development banks
(NDB/DFCC), 10 by two other companies, with the remaining 62S owned
by 5,000 shareholders. It has concentrated on prudent money
management and lending policies, generated business opportunities
among contract businesses, and introduced innovations such as
extended banking hours to provide better services to its clients. It
has moved Into development lendLng (SMI program) in a limLted way.
Sumnary data for the four prlvate domes'Ic banks is shown in Table 1:
Table l  SUMMARM DATA FOR PRIVATE DOMESTIC BANKS-199
(Re Million unles otherwise spcifled)
C0C               SAPT        SEYLAN     TOTAL
No of reancho J                             10       C5        11           6          6s
No. of Employes                           1,292    1,599      469         212       8,602
Total Assets                              5,542    5,70Q    8,68I       1,061       16,667
Total Assets/Employee                      4.8       8.6      8.0         9.2         4.7
Total DOposit.                           4 $89     a 587    2,118       1,027       11,066
Total D mand Deposit.                     1,060    1,226      172         208       2,e62
Capital/Total Assets                       8.90     6S.8      6.81       11.01        7.6X
Market Share (Assets) 1904                 5.5X      4.81     O.OX        0.OX        9.9X
Markeb Share (Assets) 1909                 5.8X1      .41     8.51        1.91       16.0X
Annual Asset Growth 1994-1989             12.91     19.1X     N/A         N/A        2.61X
Market Share D6pc4,ito 1984                5.71      4.61     O.O        0.0       11.81
Market Share Deposit. 1989                 6.OX      4.3      2.51        1.4X       16.1X
Markot Shore-Deand Deposit. 1964           N/A       N/A      N/A         N/A         N/A
Market Share-D_ond Deposit. 1060           4.611     5.0      1.73        0.91       18.0X
Income Statement/Total verage Assets
Interest Income                           10.610      .6x     s.x8 s.1X               9.8X
Interest Expense                           0.11      5.651    E.          4.11        5.5X
Fee and Other Income                       4.6X      4.51     2.01        2.65        8.6X
Profit aft.r Taxes                         2.81      1.61     1.6X        2.2X        2.1X
Nat Intoreb Margin                         4.6X1      .11    S.3X         4.01         8X.6
Administrative Cost                        4.21      5.0X     4.15        2.9X        4.8h
Profit afte. Taxes (1904)                  0.861     L.1      N/A          N/A         0.9X
Administrative Cost (1904)                 4.81      C.6X    N/A           N/A         4.81
2.         The DomestLc private banks have beon the most dynamlc element In the
commercial banklng system during the past five years. The opening of the two
new banks and the expanding branch systems of the two more established banks
has enabled the group to siganficantly increase market share and have
contributed significantly to increasing competition. During 1984-1989, their
market share of total assets increased from 9.1? to 13.42 and their share of
U    Numbers dt branches as of March 190.



-79-                              ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 8
deposits from 8.32 to 12.9Z. Despite reduclng thelr interest ezpense on
deposits more rapidly than did the state banks, they were able to take
substantial depos3ts from the state banks (People's) as they expanded lnto
areas of traditLonal state-bank duopoly. Their ability to reduce cost of funds
to increase competitiveness was due In part to an expansion of their demand
deposits from 22Z to 26Z of their total deposits, and from 7.61 to 11.6Z of
banking system demand deposits. However, they were also able to take advantage
of better management and smaller slze to price aggressively in shorter
maturlties and manage their gap more effectively. If they continue to expand,
as appears likely, their strengthened role may enhance the responsiveness of
conmmercial bank cost of funds to changes in the market although the overall
effect of increased competition on the average cost of funds is harder to
predict. One the othbr hand, if they expand too rapidly they may have serious
problems in maintaining the qualLty of their portfolios.
3.        Although somewhat overstated because of lnadequate bad debt
provisions, the private domestic bank groups show the hLghest profits (a high
1.82 on total assets) due largely to very high interest margins (4.41 of total
assets and 5.4Z spread vis borrowed funds) because of thelr ability to charge
hLgh interest rates on lending by following the prlce leadership of the state
banks and because they keep a hlgher percentage of thelr assets in investments
other than loans. They also have an ability to *skim the cream3 from the most
attractlve clients as evidence by feelother income of 3.81 of assets. This
suggests they have a number of clients who tend to borrow or deposit with the
state banks and conduct their servlce-sensitlve trade business through private
banks.
4.        SurprilsLgly, the prlvate banks have earned these ample profits
desplte two major competitlve disadvantages. First, their average cost of
funds is sharply hLgher than that of the state banks (5.51 vie 4.31 in 1989)
due to the state baaln' strong competLtlve advantage due to their masslve
demand deposlt rate. Second, the prlvate banks have a higher non-employee
related administrative cost than do the state banks (2.31 of total assets vie
1.91) although their employee expense is signLficantly lower. The high
overhead cost is due to amortLzatLon of new plant and equLpment and to hlgher
levels of automation. It is likely that private banks' competitlve
disadvantage vie state banks on overhead costs will decrease in tine as they
can amortlze plant and equLpment over a large number of branches, hihle thelr
lower employee costs will make them fomidable competLtion.
us.       The private domestic banks' non-performing portfolios, while better
tha those of state banks, are also high. In 1989, 10 bf their combined
portfolios were claseLfLed by CBSL, vis 7S for the foreign bank and 221 for
the state banks. Substandard/non-performing loans may be even larger as tle
central bank eamnination proceas lacks rigor and tends to underestimate
classified lor.ns. Despite 10% of the portfolio being classified, the private
banks took provisions equal to only 11 of portfollo In 1989 and an aggregate
4.11 over the past five years. suggestintg that bad debt provisions are
Inadequate. They appear to have sivspended Interest on classified loans per
CBSL dLrectives to income stntemente reflect the portlon of bad debt expense
associated with loss of interest Income. The private domestic banks, however,
have taken higher provisions thn have the state banks, despite much higher
quality portfolios.



-80-                               ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 8
6.        Continued relatively rapid expansion of private domestic banks will,
hopefully, subject the state banks to a greater disciplining force through
increased competition. While overall, GOSL policy is conducive to continued
private bank expansion, there are four constraints which should be addressed,
includings li) public enterprises are under some pressure to place their
deposits with state banks;s (11) Srl Lanka's present capital adequacy
requirement of 42 of total liabilities including interbank and contingent
liabilities can be excessive and imposes relatively higher requirements (an
obstacle to ezpansion) on private domestic and foreign banks which have
relatively large zontingent liabilities than on state banks; (iii) CBSL
refinancing access on national credit programs is based on historical levels
rather than on effectiveness of lending programs--therefore, the newest private
domestic banks (and foreign banks) are at a disadvantage in competing for these
funds; and (iv) the Implicit governmant guarantee for state bank deposlts which
reduces risk in individual borrowers' minds. The most significant constraint
on the growth of private banks is the inadequate nuwber of trained bankers in
Sri Lanka and CBSL pressure on the private banks to staff new branches with
their own trained personnel rather than "poaching' state bank staff. AJ.tough
the banks prefer operating their own training facilities, consideratir,a should
be given to strengthening national banker training capacity, either chrough a
CBSL-sponsored facility or by upgrading university curricula to address the
majv)r trained personnel constraint on private bank expansion.
7.        Under their Acts, BOC and PB have three significant legal advantages
that create an unequal playing field for the private banks, i.e., (i) state
bank staff salaries and benefits are tax free; (Li) state bank depositors have
the power to nominate beneficiaries directly while private bank deposits become
part of estates upon the death of the depositor; and (iii) state bank clients
are treated legally as adults at the ate of 18, whLle the age of maturity Is 21
for privat9 bank clients.  Also, state banks have had powers of parate
execution!V for debt recovery purposes while private banks, until recently,
did not. State Bank Acts should be repealed or amended or other laws amended
such that all banks are placed on an equal footing with respect to these legal
issues to the extent feasible.
8.        Government policy should be oriented t<vard facilitating private bank
expansion through addressing the constraints to their expansion. However, even
if the private domestic banks continue to expand, they will still represent a
relatively small market share and are not likely to abandon theit, fundamental
strategy of maintaining high margins (as it is profitable), which result from
the state banks' need to charge high Interest rates, rather thrn eompeting on
price to rapidly build market share. Substantial improvemente, in the debt
recovery environment may encourage them to broaden their strategy somewhat to
include more markets and clients. However, they cannot be expected to make a
V    A regulation roquiring the public enterprises to place their depoolts In
state banks has been lifted. The liberalization has not been well
publicized, however, and some banks and public enterprises believe the
regulation is still in force.
V    The right to seize and sell assets without going to court in accord with
the terms of mortgage contracts that are In default.



-81-                              ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 8
major contribution during the next five years to improving commercial banking
system competitiveness and reducing interest rates for productive borrowers who
repay their loan; that can only be achieved if the state banks, themselves,
become more efficient.
State Owned Banks
9.        Sri Lanka's two state banks, BOC and PB, dominate the banking system
in terms of size and act as market leaders in establishing interest rates.
While there are substantial differences between the two institutions--e.g.,
more substantial than the differences among state banks in Bangladesh and
Nepal--they have similar problems. They both have large non-performing loan
portfolios and very high administrative costs. Their inefficiency has led to
higher interest rates throughout the financial sector. In spite of charging
high spreads on loans, both BOC and PB would make substantial losses if
appropriate accounting policies for bad debt are adopted. Both banks need
major restructuring and must be much more commercially oriented if Sri Lanka's
banking sector is to perform an efficient financial intermediation function tc
better support the real sector and government's development activities.
10.       The Bank of Ceylon (BOC), the largest bank in Sri Lanka, was
established as a state aided bank in 1939. It remains 100I owned by Government
and operates under the Bank of Ceylon Ordinance. Its Board is appointed by the
Hinistry of Finance and it (as well as PB) is subject to public enterprise
rules on fixed asset expenditures, budgeting, and annual audits. Whlle it
appears to be considerable autonomy in many operating areas, its decision
making is often subject to considerable political pressure. It was initially
established with a commercial orientation principally to serve trade and
commerce. Hence, it has always had a more urban focus than PB, and a larger
demand deposit base, larger loans, more large industrial and public enterprise
clients, etc. BOC was nationalized in 1961 but retains a greater, albeit
eroded, commercial orientation than does PB. It has two foreign branches
(including a London branch opened in 1949) and can provide a fuller range of
corporate services than can PB. BOC has played an active role in interbank
lending and, at times, has been almost a monopolistlc supplier of funds to that
market.
11.       BOC has 241 branches (38X of all commercial bank branches), RS 42.6
billion in total assets (a 412 market share) and Rs 27.8 billion in total
deposits (381  of system deposits).  Sixty-siz of its branches (202) are in the
Colombo and Xandy metropolitan areas. It has a heavier exposure in government
lending than does PB (29S of portfolio vie 222). Without its advances to two
large plantations (162 of portfolio), it has a significantly smaller exposure
to public enterprise lend)ng than does PB. 50S of BOC lending is to large
private corporate borrowers and only 212 is retail lending to small borrowers.
It has a far heavier concentration in commercial lending than PB (542 of
portfolio vie 34Z) and a considerably smaller share in industrial and housing
loans than does PB. Surprisingly, central bank data shows that as of September
1989 it lent more to agriculture than PB (161 of portfolio vLs 12S). Its rural
branches are, in many respects, geared more to urban collateral-based
commercial lending than to agricultural and development program lending. The
average BOC branch is twice as large (in total assets) as the avrrage PB
branch.



-82-                               ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 8
12.       People's Bank (PB), was established in 1961 under the People's Bank
Act in response to government's desire to create a new apex bank to serve
cooperatives and to replace the Cooperative Federal Bank which had failed
because it did not combine commercial banking operations with its cooperative
support functions. PB was to have been *admirably suited for the implemen-
tation of national plans of production, distribution, marketing, rural credit
and essential public services*. Its formal objectives (in the Act) do not
include making profits or operating on a financially viable basis. PB expanded
very rapidly, establishing 106 branches mostly in rural areas by 1969. In
contrast, BOC, then 30 years old, had only 44 branches, of which few were
rural. PB operates a profitable pawning business out of its rural branches.
As an institution, its staff clearly have a more developmental and less
commercial orientation than does BOC and its staff. It gives the impression of
being less disciplined and more willing to cooperate wlth Government to
implement programs such as Janasaviya, even if it undermines its commercial
viability.
13.       PB now has 303 branches (482 of all commercial branches), about 33Z
of which are in urban areas. It has Rs 27 billion in total assets (a 261
market share) and Re 21 billion in total deposits (29Z of banking deposits).
PB lends more extensively for industry and housing (each 242 of total lending'
than BOC. PB does very little 'middle market' lending. Consequently, average
deposit and loan sizes are smaller.
Financial Performance
14.       Income and Interest Expense.  There are substantial differences
between BOC, PB and the private banks with respect to the structure of their
stated income and interest expense (per their financial statements) as shown in
Table 2s
Table 2: SUMMIT DATA FOR STATE ONO BANS-199
I "UIiIon unles otherwis, spcified)
SW       Pe                   Private
On~~Bnks
No of Branches (March 190)                   241       N08        644       68
No. of Employees                          t0o,82     10,080    20,422     8,562
Total Asset. (Billion)                      42.6       27.0      69.6      16.9
Total Araete/Esployee o(Mhilon)              4.1       2.7        *.4      4.?
Total Assets/Branch (Million)                1S6        64        128       276
Total Deposits (Billion)                    27.9      21.0       49.6      11.1
Total Demand Depostse (BilIon)             10.6       6.1       16.7      2.0
Domo.%d Dposits/Total Dep..ite             U".01       24.43     82.2X    25.63
Capital/Total A"sete                         2.53     2.2s       2.4X      7.53
Market Share (Asse t) 1904                 86.43     26S.%      65.53      9.96
Market Shore (Assets) 1069                 40.83     26.63      65.93      16.03
Annual Asset Growth 1984-1989              15.13     10.0l      12.90      25.ex
Asset Growth 1064-1019 (Real Terms)J        6.o0      0.11       8.ox      16.?7
The average inflation rate from 1984 to 1989 is 9.12.



-83-                               Page 7 of 8
Market Share Depost. 1# 4                 85.63      80.1S     66.21     11.8
Market She.. O post.6 1980                8.83       s5.03     6.5.      15.1s
Market Sher,Onmnnd D.pcoIt 1964            N/A       N/A        N/A       "/A
Market Shere-Demand Depo Ite 1989         4.85      18.653     71.61     18.03
Incoe Statemen  A. S of Average Totel 9 Aset)
interest ncome                             3.1       9.0.. 6.61           0.33
Interest Expemn                            89S       5.0        4.83      5.53
Net Interest Margin                        4.83      4.9S       4.03      4.9S
Fee and Other Incom                        3.43      *.2S      18.83      8.6
Emplo_e Expense                            2.03X     1.X        2.43      1.63
Other Expense                              I.6S      1.6        1.611     2.53
Subtotal Adminlitratlve Expense            8.l       4.CO       4.1       4.CO
Prf lt after Taxes                         O.33      0.6X       0.43      1.t1
Profit after Taxes (1964)                  O.1S      Q.43       0.2S      0.90
Administrative Coat (194)                  8.41      8.25       8.3       4.0
15.       As discussed above, the table shows that the state banks, on a
combines basis, have maintained their market share (662) of total assets, but
have lost deposit share (down 2Z). However, BOCIPB have a major comparative
advantage in that demand deposits represent a larger share (712) of their
deposits than for other banks. Therefore, their cost of funds is considerably
lower. However, their interest income as a percentage of assets is
consLderably less due to: (i) suspending considerable interest (estimated in
excess of 82) on non-performiag loans; (ii) a higher portion of *developmental'
loans at lower interest rates; and (ill) a higher portion of their assets
invested in loans. The state banks have higher administratlve costs than do
other banks, entirely because of extremely high employee expenses as other
administrative costs are actually lower. Finally, the state banks, desplte
large under-provisioning for bad debt, show much lower profits than do other
banks.
16.       There are major differences in market and financial performance
between BOC and PB, includings
(a)  BOC has grown 50  faster than PB. wLth total assets growing 15.12
(compared to 102 for PB) from 1984-1989. Consequently, BOC Increased
its market share of assets by 37S (to 40.5Z) hille P'"s share
declined by 292 (to 25.62);
(b)  BOC has a much stronger deposit base.  It has slightly Increased its
market share in 1984-1989 so PB (with a drop of 3S) is eatirely
responsible for the overall decline in state bank share. Also, DOC
has a much lower cost of funds thau PB (3.82 of total assets vis 52).
ThLs is largely due to BOC's stronger comerclal client base and,
therefore, much larger demand deposits (381 of deposits vis PB's
242). Consequently, BOC appears much better placed to compete with
the private domestic banks than does PB;
(c)  Desplte lower Interest expense, BOC has a much lower Interest margin
than PB (4.32 on average total asserts vie 4.82) reflecting far lover
Interest income as a percentage of loans outstanding, presumably due
In part to hlgher suspensLon of interest. As SOC's portfolio is not
performing more poorly than PB's, this would euggest that it is
following more conservative accounting practices;



-84-                               ANNh     7
Page 8 of 8
(d) BOC has much lower administrative costs than does PB (3.8S of average
total assets compared to 4.6a) as employee costs are much lower.
This is due to more efficient use of employees (Rs 4.1 million in
assetslper employee via Rs 2.7 million) as costs per employee are
similar. Administrative cost other than employee cost is identicall
and
(e) BOC is more liquid than PB with current assets representing about 39?
of total assets, vis 282 at PB. BOC has large amounts (24S of total
assets) on deposit with other banks, perhaps another reason for its
lower interest income on total assets. On the other hand, PB has
twice as much (92 of total assets) invested in treasury bill. DOC
finances it assets more extensively from non-deposit sources than
does PB, with unknown effect on its liquLdity portion.



-85-                               ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SKI IV) PROJECT
Eliaibility Criteria for Participating Credit Institutions
Development Finance Institutions
1.        The following are criteria to be complied with by a credit
institution before it is eligible to participate and maintain participation
in the proposed Project:
(a)  Statement of strategy and policy, staffing and training
programs,chief operating officers, and portfolio management
schemes as approved by the Board of Directors, satisfactory to
IDA.
(b)     (i)  compliance with Ministry of Finance (MOF) criteria on
classification of risk assets and provisioning c- non-
performing loansg
(ii)  satisfactory collection ratiost
a. a minimum annual cash collection rate (principal and
interest) calculated every six months on a rolling
twelve monthly basis of 752 by December 31, 1991 and
801 by December 31, 1992;
b. a minimum cumulative principal collection ratio of 752
by December 31, 1991 and 80S by December 31, 1992 on
its portfolio; and
c. maximum portfolio infection ratio of 202;
(iii) annual minimum profit after tax equivalent to 91 on
average shareholders fund; and
(iv) a positive profit after tax on average total assets.



-86-                              hANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Other Participating Credit Institutions
2.        The following are criteria to be complied with by a credit
institution before lt is eligible to participate and maintain participation
in the proposed Projects
(a)  Statements of strategy and policy, staffing, and training programs
in regard to term lending satisfactory to IDAs
(b)  Where applicable, maintenance of eligibility as participating
credit institution pursuant to the provisions of Development
Credit Agreements (Third Small and Medium Industries Project and
Third Industrial Development Project) between the Government of
Sri Lanka (GOSL) and IDA dated February 10. 1988 and September 19,
1988, respectively;
(c)  Compliance with Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) guidelines as
issued from time to time on capital adequacy, classification of
risk assets, provisioning for bad and doubtful debt, and
disclosure and reporting requirements;
(d)     (i)  maintain satisfactory collection performance on the PCIs'
SMI portfolio financed through the SMI Fund:
a. a minimum cumulative principal collection ratio of 75Z
by December 31, 1991 and 80 by December 31, 1992;
b. a minimum annual principal and interest collection
ratio of 752 by December 31, 1991 and 802 by
December 31, 1992; and
c. a maximum portfolio infection ratio of 202 by
December 31, 1991 and 152 by December 31, 1992;
(ii)  positive profit after tax on average shareholders fund;
(iii)  positive rate of return on average total assets; and
(iv)  at least two years of performance satisfactory to IDA in
profitability and term lending.



-87-                               ANNEX 9
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI IV) PROJECT
Disbursement 8chedule
FY                                  Profile
Us$ Mllion          I
PY92    December 31                        2.5     2.5           7
June 30                            2.5     5.0          11
FY93    December 31                        5.0    10.0          23
June 30                            5.0    15.0          34
FY94    December 31                        7.5    22.5          51
June 30                            7.5    30.0          69
FY95    December 31                        5.0    35.0          80
June 30                            5.0    40.0          91
FY96    December 31                        2.5    42.5          96
June 30                            2.5    45.0         100



-88-
ANNEX 10
SRI LANKA
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES (SMI IV) PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available s Proiect File
A.   Sectoral Studies
A.l   Debt Recovery
A.2   Financial Institutions Studys  1990
A.3   Industrial Strategy Statements--GOSLt  1989
A.4   Improving Customs Administration--Ifs  1991
A.5   Interest Rate Structure
A.6   Environmental Policies and Proceduress  1990
A.7   Export Development--Future Programs  1990
A.8   Technology Transfer
A.9   Transport Sector Review--IDA:  1990
B.   Project Reports
3.1   Bank of Ceylon (BOC)
B.2   Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL)
B.3   Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka (CIBSL)
B.4   Commercial Bank of Ceylon (CBOC)
B.5   Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC)
B.6   Hatton National Bank (HNB)
B.7   National Development Bank of Ceylon (NDB)
B.8   Peoples Bank (PB)
1.9   Regional Rural Development Banks (RRDB)
1.10  Sampath Bank (SB)
1.11  Seylan Trust Bank (STB)
C.  Working Papers
C.l   TOR for Technical Assistances
A. Institutional Development
(i)  NDB/PCI Upgrading and Operational Reviews
(ii) Audits of BOC/PB (ADB)
(iii)  Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka (ADB)
B. Policy Vevelopment
(i) SHI Development Policies and Strategies (ADB)
(ii) Export Development and Investment Promotion
(iii)  Environmental Impact Assessments
C.    Project Implementation Support
(i) Rationalization of Customs and Excise Procedures
(ii) SMI Technical Assistance Fund
C.2   Draft Participation Agreements
C.3   Draft Statement on Policies and Procedures for the Technical
Assistance Fund (TAP)
C.4   Periodic Reports



IBRD 23009
SRI LANK'A
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 "M.C C CA O 
DOTBC GOUNOAIIE
HA  V M)L.AITI\/       XK  8N
NORT6ERN          9.
norg          1  ._<        AVVNiYA
\{y WkNNAR bi
1             sN~~~~UPADHAPUPA                                  say  Wnof
POIONNAR(WAM4RA,
ti<Pdftm    0         s CENTRAL 5         FlONRS  
\LFfTIAUM gNORTH                           Pbnr   
COLOMBO   C                          r                     eAOCALOALO 
I            KURUNI    I                                      -| RUNGALA            .
Arabian\ RNEAJ ,  /;
\   _    ~    ~    ~~    CENTRKALD                              npse  
tl    o  {      (3_            5J         \              tKANA1PARAF I 
Gomerpoha       KEGALLA   }                   3    ) UV9 ;r
T   }    X    NURAP4 )             {S    h~~~~~~~~onosse$0
\t       R t U         R           f~~~~~~~~ MONERA\GAU        J     .A
\KALUTAPA kl                                
\     k         ~~~~RATNAiPUPA                                     '
\VVESTER    SABARAGAMUWA                                                    ,,
l                1 - - - -~~               GA SAl   >^MATARA >              HAME1A.NfOTA        .
F~~~~~~ 10                  ns 20  1D 40                       SOTEN    b          bn04            '
F                                                                                     M0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WY 1991



