Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2072 CE
                   Development Credit Agreement
                    (General Education Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 14, l99O
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2072 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT,  dated February 14,  1990,  between DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
   Section 1.02.  Unless the  context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
    (a)  "Special Accounts" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated September 13, 1988 and September 30, 1988
between the Borrower and the Association; and
    (c)  "Rs" means Rupees in the Borrower's currency.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 38,500,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
    (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall Promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to
paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement.
    (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
Page  3
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1
commencing June 1, 2000 and ending December 1, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1,
2009 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
    (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
   (c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, educational and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Page  4
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
   (i)      have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
            (a) of this Section including those for the Special
            Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
            appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
            by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
  (ii)      furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
            any case not later than nine months after the end of
            each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
            audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
            as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
 (iii)      furnish to the Association such other information
            concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
            as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
            request.
   (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
   (i)      maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
            paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
            reflecting such expenditures;
  (ii)      retain, until at least one year after the Association
            has received the audit for the fiscal year in which the
            last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
            records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,  receipts
            and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 (iii)      enable the Association's representatives to examine such
            records; and
  (iv)      ensure that such records and accounts are included in
            the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
            Section and that the report of such audit contains a
            separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
            statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
            year, together with the procedures and internal controls
            involved in their preparation,  can be relied upon to
            support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
    Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  5
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01.  The Secretary,  Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
    Ministry of Finance
    Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
    Colombo, Sri Lanka
Cable address:                       Telex:
      SECMINFIN                         FINMIN 21409
      Colombo                           FORAID 21232
    For the Association:
    International Development Association
    1818 H Street, N.W.
    Washington, D.C. 20433
    United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
     INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
     Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
                                          64145 (WUI)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                                     DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
                                       REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                     By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                     By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
                                 Acting Regional Vice President
                                                           Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  6
(1) Civil Works               19,030,000       90%
(2) Equipment,                10,900,000       100% of foreign
    materials,                                 expenditures,
    and furniture                              100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost),
                                               and 85% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items pro-
                                               cured locally
(3) Classroom                    880,000       60% until January
    supplies                                   31, 1992, 40%
                                               until January 31,
                                               1994, and 20%
                                               thereafter
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Vehicles                   880,000        100% of foreign
                                               expenditures
(5)  Consultants' and         1,340,000        100%
     technical services
(6)  Training and               790,000        100%
    fellowships
(7)  Project coordina-          710,000        100%
    tion and operating
     costs
(8)  Refunding                  200,000        Amount due
    of Project                                 pursuant to
    Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
                                               of this Agree-
                                               ment
(9) Unallocated                3,770,000
                              __________
    TOTAL                     38,500,000
                              ==========
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
    (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)  the dates in paragraph 1 (Category (3)) of this Schedule
refer to dates of receipt by the Association o\1a applications for
withdrawals from the Credit Account.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  7
                    Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to upgrade the quality of
general education in Sri Lanka.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Upgrading of Schools
    The carrying out of a program to upgrade substandard schools by
construction of classrooms, multi-purpose rooms, water supplies,
sanitation and other facilities, and provision of classroom and
office equipment and teaching supplies.
Part B:   Strengthening of Management
    The carrying out of a program to  improve the school management
and teacher performance through (i) construction, equipping and
staffing of Divisional  Education Offices; (ii) establishment of a
Management Development Unit to strengthen school organization
systems, and school supervision procedures; (iii) the development
and implementation of new management systems including measures to
reduce teacher absenteeism; and (iv) the carrying out of a
management training program.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
    The carrying out of a study of the linkages between labor market
requirements and the output of the educational system, strengthening
of the planning and analysis capability within the Ministry of
Education of the Borrower and development of a management
information system.
                           *   *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                          SCHEDULE 3
             Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Sri Lanka may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for classroom consumables, furniture  and other small
items estimated to cost an equivalent of $100,000 each or less up to
an aggregate amount of $11,400,000 may be procured on the basis  of
Page  8
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account,  such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out of the Project,
the  Borrower  shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall:
    (a)  complete the study of employment-education linkages under
Part C of the Project by June 30, 1991;
    (b)  promptly thereafter, review the results of said study with
the Association; and
    (c)  prepare an action plan by December 31, 1991 to implement
the agreed recommendations arising from said study.
2.   The Borrower shall:
    (a)  by December 31, 1990 complete a study on the causes and
remedies of teacher absenteeism;
    (b)  promptly thereafter, review the results of said study with
the Association; and
Page  9
    (c)  prepare by June 30, 1991 an action plan satisfactory to the
Association to reduce teacher absenteeism.
3.   The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1990, prepare and review
with the Association a plan for increasing teacher training capacity
to adequate levels.
4.   The upgrading of schools and provision of supplies under Part
A of the Project will be implemented in accordance with standards
and criteria agreed with the Association.
5.   Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall increase the level of provisions
for:
    (a)  classroom supplies to at least Rs 40,000,000 per annum;
    (b)  rehabilitation of dilapidated schools and major periodic
maintenance to at least Rs 100,000,000 per annum during the
implementation of the Project.
6.   The Borrower shall ensure that the Divisional Education Offices
established or equipped under the Project are staffed at adequate
levels agreed with the Association.
7.   The Borrower shall establish additional positions of 32
provincial level management trainers.
8.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9.05 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association semi-
annually progress reports of the Project in accordance with an
agreed format, and shall, by June 30, 1992, hold a mid-project
review with the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or
requests,  the Association shall,  on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts  as  the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  10
    (b) (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
               for deposits into the Special Account at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
       (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
               payments  in respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
               Association shall,  on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
               the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been made
               out of the  Special Account for eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
    (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
    (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
Page  11
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation  in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
