Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2250 CE
           (Fourth Small and Medium Industries Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 15, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2250 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 1991, between DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, has issued a statement on
a Strategy for Industrialization in Sri Lanka dated
December 15, 1989 (the Strategy), describing objectives
and policies designed for the development and expansion
of the industrial sector, and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the implementation of said policies;
      (B)   the Borrower, has issued a Statement of
Financial Sector Policy dated May 3, 1991 (the
Statement), describing objectives and policies designed
for the development and expansion of the financial
sector, and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
implementa-tion of said policies;
Page  2
      (C)   the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of measures to be undertaken
pursuant to, or in furtherance of, the provisions of the
Statement through the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
      (D)   from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the
Borrower intends to contract a loan (the ADB Loan) in an
amount equivalent to SDR 22,374,000 to assist in
financing the Project on terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the ADB Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and ADB; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "First Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Small and Medium Industries Project) between
the Borrower and the Association dated July 24, 1979,
"Second Agreement" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Second Small and Medium Industries Project) between the
Borrower and the Association dated February 5, 1982, and
"Third Agreement" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Third Small and Medium Industries Project) between the
Borrower and the Association dated February 10, 1988;
      (b)   "NDB" means the National Development Bank of
the Borrower established under the National Development
Bank Act,   No. 2 of 1979;
      (c)   "SMI Fund" means the Small and Medium
Industries Fund established pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.02 (b) of the First Agreement and operating
under the First, Second and Third  Agreements;
      (d)   "Participating Credit Institution" means any
credit institution established or operating under the
laws of the Borrower, which has entered into a
participation agreement with NDB pursuant to the
provisions of Part 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (e)   "Small and Medium Industry" means an enterprise
privately or cooperatively owned, with plant and
equipment with a book value (excluding land and
buildings) of less than Rs 8,000,000, prior to the
granting of a Sub-loan;
      (f)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by a Participating Credit Institution out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions
Page  3
of this Agreement;
      (g)   "Sub-project" means a sub-project for which a
sub-loan is made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Credit Institution under the Project;
      (h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
entered into between the Borrower and NDB pursuant to
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, as the said agreement may
be amended from time to time with the consent of the Association;
      (i)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of
strategy and policy for SMI operations as adopted and
approved by NDB's Board of Directors;
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement;
      (k)   "AWDR" means the Average Weighted Deposit Rate
of the interest rates paid to depositors by branches in
the Greater Colombo area of domestic commercial banks
(other than the National Savings Bank) on interest-
bearing term deposits, as issued by the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka on January 1 and July 1;
      (l)   "State Commercial Banks" means the Bank of
Ceylon, and the People's Bank; and
      (m)   "Rs" means Rupees, the currency of the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-three
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 33,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made):
(i) in respect of Sub-loans under Part A of the Project;
and (ii) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Part B of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for
a Sub-project in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of
Rs 8,000,000 equivalent when added to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed
for such Sub-project out of the proceeds of the Credit,
provided, however, that no amount shall be withdrawn from
the Credit Account unless: (A) the Sub-loan shall have
been approved by the Association, or (B) the Sub-loan
shall be a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account. NDB shall in turn authorize financing to the
Participating Credit Institutions on the basis of NDB's
prior approval of Sub-loans of Rs 8,000,000 or more. For
Sub-loans of less than Rs 8,000,000, NDB shall authorize
financing to a Participating Credit Institution within
two weeks following application from such Participating
Credit Institution.
      (c)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-
Page  4
limit Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, the
Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association, an application in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with: (i) a description and
appraisal of the Sub-project, including the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the amortization schedule thereto;
and (iii) such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
      (d)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of
a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary
description of the Sub-project, including the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan.
      (e)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in a bank and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31,
1996 or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semi-annually on March 15 and September
15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
Page  5
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15  commencing September 15, 2001
and ending March 15, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on March 15, 2011 shall
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The General Manager of NDB, or such
person or persons as NDB shall appoint in writing, is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project or cause the Project to be carried
out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and industrial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Page  6
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. In order to carry out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall relend to NDB for the account
of SMI Fund, the equivalent in rupees of such amounts as
shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account under Category
(1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, under a subsidiary loan agreement on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
including those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained: (i) the accounts and financial
statements of NDB; and (ii) records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to
                  in paragraph (a) of this Section
                  including those for the Special Account
                  for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
          (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon
                  as available, but in any case not
                  later than four months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy
                  of the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records,
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;
          (ii)    retain, until at least one year
                  after the Association has received
                  the audit for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents)
Page  7
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to
                  in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
                  the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the objectives and policies included in
the Strategy, or in the Statement, or a significant part
thereof, will be implemented.
      (b)   The National Development Bank Act, No. 2 of
1979, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as, in the judgment of the
Association, to materially affect the carrying out of the
Project or the operations or financial condition of NDB.
      (c)   A change shall have been made in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement without the Association's consent.
      (d)   A change shall have been made in the Statement
of Policy without the Association's consent.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of NDB or SMI Fund, or
for the suspension of the operations of NDB or SMI Fund.
      (f)   The ADB Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by October 15, 1991, or such later date as the
Association may agree, provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
      (g)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to
                        withdraw the proceeds of the ADB
                        Loan shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or
                        in part, pursuant to the terms of
                        the ADB Agreement, or
                  (B)   the ADB Loan shall have become due
                        and payable prior to the agreed
                        maturity thereof.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
Page  8
                  not apply if the Borrower establishes to
                  the satisfaction of the Association that:
                  (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is not caused
                  by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                  any of its obligations under such
                  agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower
                  from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the
                  obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   any events specified in paragraphs (e) and (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
      (b)   any events specified in paragraphs (a), (b),
(c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
      (c)   any events specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to
the proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered
into by the Borrower and NDB; and
      (b)   agreements have been entered into by NDB with
at least three Participating Credit Institutions in
accordance with the provisions of Part 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and NDB in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Page  9
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
            Colombo, Sri Lanka
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  SECMINFIN                  FINMIN 21409
                  Colombo                    FORAID 21232
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                  By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Jochen Kraske
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated                % of
                           (Expressed in              Expenditures
      Category             SDR Equivalent)            to be Financed
(1)   Sub-loans under         29,600,000        70%
      Part A of the
      Project
Page  10
(2)   Expenditures             3,700,000
      under Part B
      of the Project:
      (a)   Goods                               100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost),
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
      (b)   Consultants'                        100%
            services
            and training
                              __________
            TOTAL             33,300,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made:
      (a)   in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan
has been made in accordance with the procedures and on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      (b)   in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 2,220,000, may be made in respect of
Category (1) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after December 31, 1990; or
      (c)   except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, on account of expenditures in
respect of a Sub-loan if such expenditures shall have
been made more than 120 days prior to the date on which
NDB shall have received in respect of such Sub-loan the
application and information required by Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan, more than 120 days prior to the date on which NDB
shall have received in respect of such free-limit Sub-
loan the request and information  required by Section
2.02 (d) of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the
Borrower's continuing program to develop small and medium
enterprises through the provision of credit and the
improvement of support systems.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Page  11
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objective:
Part A:     Sub-loans
      A program by NDB through the SMI Fund to provide
Sub-loans by Participating Credit Institutions, mainly to
small and medium enterprises.
Part B:     Support Systems
      Provision of technical assistance for:
1.    institutional development of:
      (a)   NDB;
      (b)   Participating Credit Institutions; and
      (c)   State Commercial Banks.
2.    policy development in:
      (a)   customs, excise and other procedures to
facilitate business operations;
      (b)   insurance industry reform;
      (c)   export development and investment promotion;
      (d)   small and medium enterprises operations; and
      (e)   environmental protection in the industrial
sector.
3.    project implementation support to small and medium
enterprises.
                  *              *              *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31,
1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
           Terms for Onlending, Relending and Sub-loans
A.    Terms for Onlending by Borrower to NDB
1.    Interest rate                 :     AWDR
2.    Amortization period           :     15 years, inclusive of
                                          5 years of grace
3.    Foreign exchange risk         :     to be borne by Borrower
4.    Administration fee to be      :     1% per annum of Credit
      paid by Borrower to NDB             proceeds outstanding
B.    Terms for Relending by NDB to Participating Credit
      Institutions
1.    Interest rate                 :     AWDR
2.    Initial amount                :     up to 70% of amount
                                          of each Sub-loan with
                                          annual review of
                                          utilization
3.    Amortization period
Page  12
      (a) DFCC                      :     15 years, inclusive
                                          of 5 years of grace
      (b) other Participating       :     maximum of 10 years,
          Credit Institutions             inclusive of up to
                                          2 years of grace
C.    Terms of Sub-loans
1.    Interest rate                 :     to be determined by the
                                          respective Participating
                                          Credit Institution
2.    Amortization period           :     up to 10 years including
                                          grace periods of up to
                                          2 years
3.    Maximum size of               :     Rs 8,000,000 in total
      borrowing enterprise                fixed assets at book
                                          value (excluding land
                                          and buildings) prior to
                                          granting of Sub-loan
4.    Maximum Sub-loan size          :     Rs 8,000,000 (except
                                          as the Association may
                                          otherwise determine)
D.    Adjustment of Terms
1.    The mechanisms for establishing interest rates and
adminis-trative fees referred to above, shall be reviewed
on each September 30 and March 31 and, if necessary,
adjusted, based on procedures agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.
2.    The actual rate charged to NDB by the Borrower, and
to the Participating Credit Institutions by NDB, shall be
amended each January 1 and July 1.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain the Project Coordinating Committee
established under the First Agreement and operating under
the First, Second, and Third Agreements, with such
membership and terms of reference as shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   cause NDB to maintain the SMI Fund with: (i) an
organizational structure satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) staff whose numbers, qualifications and experience
are satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) accounting
procedures and a statement of policies and operating
procedures satisfactory to the Association;
      (c)   cause NDB to consult with the Association prior
to the appointment of a new General Manager of NDB and
prior to making any significant amendments to the policy
statements; and
      (d)   ensure that the Participating Credit
Institutions retain responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association for lending to small and medium industries.
2.    The Borrower shall cause NDB to:
      (a)   apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to
Page  13
the Association in NDB's review of a Sub-project
appraisal by a Participating Credit Institution for a
Sub-loan to be financed by the SMI Fund under the
Project;
      (b)   approve and finance a Sub-loan on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   cause the Participating Credit Institutions to
incorporate simple indicators of economic impact in their
Sub-project appraisals including expected fixed costs per
job created and the percentage of raw materials of local
origin.
3.    The Borrower shall cause the Small and Medium
Industries Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Borrower's
Central Bank to be maintained in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Borrower shall cause NDB to enter into an
agreement with each Participating Credit Institution
providing for its participation in the Project, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
5.    The Borrower shall cause NDB to relend proceeds of
the Credit to Participating Credit Institutions if the
performance of each such Participating Credit Institution
complies with eligibility criteria satisfactory to the
Association.
6.    (a)   After commencing to participate in the Project,
each Participating Credit Institution shall continue to
satisfy the eligibility criteria which shall be monitored
semiannually and modified if appropriate by mutual
agreement of the Borrower and the Association. If any
Participating Credit Institution fails to satisfy the
above specified criteria, the Association reserves the
right to suspend Sub-loan authorizations under the
Project until the Participating Credit Institution has
taken specific steps to address its problems in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
      (b)   To ensure an even utilization of the Credit and
ADB Loan, the Borrower shall cause NDB to apply for
withdrawals from the Association and ADB on a basis
proportionate to the relative contribution of the
Association and ADB to the financing of Part A of the
Project.
7.    The Borrower shall cause all Participating Credit
Institutions to have their records and accounts audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
8.    The Borrower shall, in accordance with programs and
time-schedules satisfactory to the Association:
      (a)   reduce the Borrower's shareholding in NDB; and
      (b)   reduce the State Commercial Bank's respective
share- holdings in DFCC to not more than 15 percent by
March 31, 1992.
9.    The Borrower shall by October 1, 1991 furnish a
report to the Association, on the measures taken to
improve the recovery of debts referred to in Section
6.01 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement (Third
Industrial Development Project) between the Borrower
and the Association dated September 19, 1988, which
shall include:
      (a)   the initial impact of legislation to improve
Page  14
debt recovery;
      (b)   actions taken since the legislation was passed,
to improve debt recovery; and
      (c)   recommendations on actions required, if any, to
improve the operation of the debt recovery legislation.
10.   The Borrower shall by March 31, 1992 conduct a
review with the Association with regard to the actions
taken pursuant to the Statement and the implementation of
the Project, including the continued eligibility of the
State Commercial Banks as Participating Credit
Institutions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
A.    Under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause NDB to establish procedures in line with
established commercial practice, to ensure that the goods
and works procured shall be purchased at reasonable and
competitive prices in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association, due account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery,
quality and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor; and
B.    Under Part B of the Project:
1.    Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
Page  15
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request
or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the
                  Association requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as
                  the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                  the Association the documents and other
                  evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                  of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis
                  of each such request, the Association
                  shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and
                  deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required to
make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
Page  16
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion
of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
