rt
Document of                             _    _ _
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3424-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$125 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
November 23, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1           =  W 745
US$1.34        =  W 1,000
US$1 million  =  W 745 million
US$1,340       =  W 1 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =   3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             =   0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)   =   0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2  =   2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)              =   2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =   2,204.6226 pounds (lbs)
1.1023 short tons (sh tons or 2,000 lbs)
0.9842 long tons (lg ton or 2,240 lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BPR    -   Bureau of Public Roads
DBST   -   Double bituminous surface treatment
EPB    -   Economic Planning Board
ERR    -   Economic Rate of Return
FFYP   -   Fifth Five Year Plan
GNP    -   Gross National Product
KHC    -   Korea Highway Corporation
KMPA   -   Korean Maritime and Ports Authority
KNR    -   Korean National Railroad
MOC    -   Ministry of Construction
MOF    -   Ministry of Finance
MOHA   -   Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT    -   Ministry of Transport
VOC    -   Vehicle operating costs



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Government of the Republic of Korea
Amount:            US$125 million equivalent
Terms:             15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Project
Description:    The project will improve economic efficiency by reducing
transport costs in rural areas through the development of
the county or tertiary road system and by improving the
maintenance of the provincial and county roads. The project
would also promote improved integration of the road system
through a review of investment plans to assure that county
road development is coordinated with the development of the
national and provincial road networks. In addition, it
would promote the adoption of low cost paving techniques not
heretofore used in the country, help Government improve road
safety and improve transport services in remote areas.
Specifically, the project would:
(a) improve about 1,000 km of provincial and county roads
of which 820 km will be paved and the remainder
gravel surfaced;
(b) assist in setting up and providing equipment for
organizations at central, provincial and county
administrative levels to implement a maintenance
program;
(c)  provide consultant services for:
(i) supervision of county road improvement works;
(ii) technical assistance for the provincial and
county road maintenance program;
(iii) detailed engineering of an additional 1,000 km
of county roads;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iv) assistance in the implementation of an on-site
training program for Korean contractors and the
Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) and the Ministry
of Construction (MOC) staff in the use of double
bituminous surface treatment (DBST);
(v) a study for the integrated investment planning of
the road system;
(vi) a road safety study; and
(d) provide overseas fellowships for the training of MOHA
staff in road planning, economic analysis, equipment
management and financial management and accounting.
There are no unusual risks associated with the road improve-
ment component. The introduction of the DBST paving method
is a manageable risk that will be reduced considerably by
the training program for contractors and staff. Establish-
ing effective maintenance organizations at provincial and
county levels entails some risks which will be minimized by
the provision of technical assistance.
Estimated                                                   Local  Foreign  Total
Project Costs:                                           ---- ($ million) ----
County road improvement (1,006 km)   79.3         76.3  155.6
Equipment for provincial and
county road maintenance program        -        27.0   27.0
uonsuitant services                       5.2       2.8    8.0
Training fellowships                      0.03      0.12   0.15
Contingencies
Physical                               8.5      10.6   19.1
Price                                 15.3      17.3   32.6
Right of way                             17.3       -     17.3
Total Project Costs               125.6/a  134.1  259.7/a
Financing Plan:   Bank loan                                   -       125.0  125.0
Korean Government                       125.6       9.1  134.7
Total                             125.6    134.1  259.7
/a Includes taxes of about US$19.8 million.



Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY           1983  1984  1985  1986   1987   1988
Annual           3.0  22.0  25.0  40.0   25.0   10.0
Cumulative       3.0  25.0  50.0  90.0  115.0  125.0
Rate of Return:   The overall rate of return for all project roads, which
account for 80% of total project costs, is 30%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 4116-KO, dated November 22, 1982.
.



I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A PROVINCIAL AND
COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of US$125 million to help finance
a Provincial and County Roads Project. The loan is for a term of 15 years
including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Adjusting to a New
World Environment" was distributed under cover of Sec M82-514 dated June 1,
1982. The following summary is based on this Report together with updating
information obtained during a Bank mission in August 1982. The Country Data
Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance
3.         Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest developing
countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments
financed almost entirely through foreign grants. By the early 80s she had
become a semi-industrial, middle-income country with a fairly strong external
payments position. During 1960-81 GNP grew by over 8% p.a. and per capita
income more than tripled in real terms. The share of the manufacturing sector
in GNP rose from 14% to 29.5% while the share of agriculture fell from 36% to
18%. Merchandise exports, principally manufactured goods, accounted for
almost 41% of GNP as against a mere 4% two decades earlier.
4.         Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor
force had been employed in agriculture. By 1981, employment in this sector
had fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 20% of the econo-
mically active population. Heavy migration from the rural areas to the
cities combined with deliberate Government policies to improve the agricul-
tural terms of trade and a steady increase in agricultural value added
helped to ensure a growth in per capita rural incomes more or less in line
with the rest of the economy through the first half of the 70s. There are
indications of some deterioration in the income share of the rural population
in the last four years, but Korea still compares favourably with most
countries, the ratio of the population below the poverty line in the rural
sector having declined from 40% in the early sixties to 11% in the late 70s.



Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82
5.        A number of measures enabled Korea to not only surmount the first
oil crisis which raised the cost of imported fuel by US$700 million within a
matter of a year, but also to average a growth rate of 10% between 1973 and
1978. These included, increased borrowing from abroad, combined with a
devaluation of the currency, export diversification in products as well as
markets and an increase in public sector savings. However, the very success
of the Korean planners in stimulating the economy generated serious
inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an average annual rate of 18%
between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in productivity, and by 1978
the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was increasing at over 18% p.a., compared to a
rate of 10% in 1977. In addition, the large volume of subsidized credit
which was made available to the heavy and chemical industries by the
financial system under the Government's direction, brought about an
excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand while
the traditional light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level, had
a dampening effect on the expansion of exports.
6.        To tackle these problems, the Government announced, in April 1979, a
far reaching program of stabilizatiorr-cum-restructuring, but the program
was overwhelmed by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price hikes in
1979 and 1980 raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about US$2.3 billion
in 1978 to US$6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to
nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the
chief architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was
assassinated. This was followed by a period of the severest political
uncertainty and social unrest in twenty years (with the situation returning
to normal only after the ascendancy of a new Administration under President
Chun Doo Hwan in September 1980). On top of these developments, the
unfavorable weather resulted in a drop in agricultural output of about 22%
in 1980, or over 4% of GNP, and a 15% decline in investment led to a
worsening of deflationary pressures which could not be offset by the 10%
growth of export volume. As a result GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980, unemployment
increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel, raw
materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29% in spite of a 5%
cut in real wages.
7.        The reduction in wages resulted primarily from the Government-s
income policy which along with the 26.7% devaluation of the won, were the
two most important measures introduced in 1980 to stabilize the domestic
economy and promote external adjustment. With the won depreciating by a
further 12% in 1981 and real wages decreasing almost 4%, the effects of these
policies on the adjustment process have been very positive, although recovery
has been less rapid than after the first oil shock. Export volume increased



- 3 -
by another 19% in 1981 and together with only moderate real import growth
(5%) reduced the current account deficit from US$5.3 billion in 1980 (l1% o0
GNP) to US$4.4 billion (7% of GNP). At the same time, on a year-end basis,
inflation was a little over 12% compared to 29% in 1980 and GNP grew by 7.1%,
although some 3% of this reflected a recovery of agricultural production.
Inflationary pressures continued to subside through the first nine months of
1982 and the current account BOP deficit which was forecast at US$4.4 billion,
has been revised downwards to US$1.8 billion, about 2.7% of GNP. This is
partly because of a 3% improvement in the terms of trade, a reduction of oil
imports due to conservation measures, and slower than anticipated growth in
GNP.
8.        The Government's original GNP growth target of 7% for 1982 has been
reduced by 1%, and actual growth may not exceed 5%. Employment growth in this
period also slowed to 1.4% p.a., with all the job creation being outside
agriculture and manufacturing. With capacity utilization in the manufacturing
sector averaging 70% and the interest burden having risen, there has been a
persistent deterioration in the financial position of enterprises. The ratio
of net profits to sales decreased from 2.2% in 1978 to -0.7% in 1981, and the
ratio of financial expenses to net sales rose from 4.8% to 8%.
Recent Reflationary Measures
9.        In mid-1982, the Governruent encouraged by the improvement in the
balance of payments and the fall in inflation through the first half of the
year, introduced measures to spur economic activity and improve both the
liquidity as well as the profitability of enterprises. These measures are
aimed at stimulating aggregate demand and strengthening the liquidity of
firms. The liquidity and profitability of manufacturing is to be raised by
means of a 4% cut in interest rates introduced in July 1982 and a 15%
reduction in corporate taxes planned for 1983. These changes are also likely
to have a favourable influence on investment. However, given the heavy
reliance of the Korean economy on trade, a full recovery also requires a
resurgence of export demand, which, given the economic climate in the OECD
countries, is likely to be slow in materializing. Thus, both growth and trade
prospects over the next twelve months remain somewhat uncertain. With money
supply increasing at 30% p.a., Korean planners will have to be very vigilant
so as to ensure that the increase in consumer prices estimated at 7% in 1982,
does not surge back to double digit levels.
*            Medium Term Prospects
10.       It is in this environment of uncertainty that Korea's Fifth Five
Year Plan covering the years 1982-86 has been launched. The basic objectives
of the Plan are to restore growth momentum along with the achievement of price
stability and equity. For this purpose, the Plan puts emphasis on (a)
economic stabilization, (b) export promotion and import liberalization, (c)
establishment of an internationally competitive industrial structure, (d)
promotion of the market mechanism, (e) liberalization of the financial sector,



-4-
and (f) expansion of social development expenditure. The goal of price
stabilization is to be pursued mainly through fiscal discipline, a prudent
monetary policy and monitoring of wage contracts. Export promotion efforts
will be helped by price stability and a flexible exchange rate policy as well
as by quality improvement and product innovation. The Plan also proposes a
program of import liberalization as well as tariff reduction to improve price
competitiveness. An important change in industrial policy during the Plan
period will be the reduction of the Government's role in promoting the
so-called strategic industries. Investment choices will be left increasingly
to the initiative of the private sector with the Government providing only the
general framework. To promote the market mechanism, the Government has
started a program for liberalization of the financial sector, including
denationalization of the commercial banks. However, the pace of this program
is likely to be slowed by the continuing sluggishness of the economy which has
exacerbated the weaknesses of the corporate sector. The Plan also proposes
that relatively more Government resources will be allocated to meet the "basic
needs" of people such as education, housing, social security and improved
sanitation and water supply. The basic strategy of the Fifth Plan, which is
to expedite structural adjustment and make greater use of market forces, is
sound, but the transition is going to be difficult and the growth target of
7.6% p.a. might not be achieved. In any case, during the 80s Korea will have
to adjust to a substantially lower growth rate than in the past two decades
and find ways of increasing the employment intensity of its growth to keep
unemployment rates at acceptable levels. The projected export growth of 11%
does not appear unreasonable in terms of the country's past performance, but
the near-term prospects are less favourable than assumed in the Plan.
Consequently, the realization of export projections for the Plan period will
depend on the success of policies to improve export competitiveness.
11.       External Resource Balance.  As discussed above, provided appropriate
policies are followed and world trade expands as projected, an increase in
total exports to the extent projected under the Plan, does not appear
unrealistic. The projected reduction in import elasticities is also
consistent with the import liberalization program, provided the energy
efficiency and oil substitution programs are implemented as planned and
appropriate exchange rate policies are followed. In the area of invisibles,
an important factor is the Plan projection of a significant reduction in
international interest rates in nominal as well as real terms; this expect-
ation is broadly consistent with the forecasts made by the World Bank and the
IMF. The gross borrowing program envisaged in the Plan (about $9 billion
p.a.), though large in absolute amounts, is realistic in terms of availability
and prudent in terms of Korea's debt service capacity, provided export
projections are realized./l With the projected level of borrowings, Korea's
/1 The significant recent improvement of the balance of payment, discussed in
paragraph 8 above, which is in part structural, is likely to reduce the
borrowing requirements and improve the results of the subsequent
analysis.



external debt as a ratio of GNP would decline from about 50% at present to
about 45% in 1986. If the Plan expectation of a decline in interest rates
materializes and the export projections are realized, the total debt-service
ratio (including interest payments on short-term debt) would decline from
about 20% of exports in 1981 to 14% in 1986, which is considerably lower than
the debt service ratio projected for other non-oil developing as well as newly
industrializing countries. However, in relation to GNP, Korea's debt-service
burden is high and there are risks with regard to the availability and cost of
external capital over the next few years. Thus it is desirable to assure that
the current account deficit does not exceed the 3% of GDP p.a. projected in
the Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of September 30, 1982, Korea had received 62 Bank Loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling US$3,765
million in loans and US$106.8 million in credits (taking into account
cancellations and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank
Loan). As of that date, US$1,045.61 million remained undisbursed on effective
Loans, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of
September 30, 1982 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As
indicated in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally
satisfactory, and implementation delays which have occurred in a number of
projects - mainly irrigation, highways and population - due primarily to
shortfalls in Government budgetary contributions resulting from cost overruns
during a period of high domestic inflation are being addressed. The problem
was reviewed with the Government during 1981 and the Government subsequently
took measures to increase local funding of Bank financed projects. As the
Government's budgetary situation continues to be tight, the status and plans
for counterpart contributions would remain an integral part of country
implementation reviews held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless,
despite the recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among
major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
13.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining
a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.



- 6 -
14.        A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received US$410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank, US$352.5 million, and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank, US$205 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry, and the
Citizens National Bank US$60 million to meet the financial needs of the small
enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these loans have been the
numerous industrial enterprises which have received funds through the
financial intermediaries. This has contributed to the overall development
of the industrial sector, and also to the achievement of institutional
improvements as well as the Government's objective of decentralizing
industry.
15.        In recent years, the Bank has also been assisting the Government's
effort to develop the country's technological capability. The Electronic
Technology Project (Loan 1676-KO), approved in March 1979, provided the Korea
Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) with sophisticated facilities to
enable it to undertake productiorr-oriented development work, and financed an
R&D program that is directly linked to the needs of the electronics industry.
In March 1982, the Bank approved a US$50 million loan to the Korea Technology
Development Corporation (KTDC) whose main objectives are to accelerate
advanced foreign technology imports and support in-house research development
and engineering.
16.        As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of industri-
alization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport
facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's
efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating back to 1962,
has played an important role in these developments. Financing of US$432
million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to increase the
railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling US$334.5
million have been made for highway construction and paving of high priority
sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance organiza-
tion; and two loans amounting to US$147.0 million have been provided for the
expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
17.        Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together,
these projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.
18.        Korea's record of achievement in modernizing iits agricultural sec-
tor, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial sphere,



is nevertheless commendable.  The past 15 years have seen agricultural output
grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country becoming
nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible a steady
and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 34% of Korea's
population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on agrarian pursuits
for their livelihood. The Bank has lent US$375.5 million for the improvement
of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the provision of
agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural products.  In
addition, US$155.0 million has been provided for two rural infrastructure
projects in support of the Government's rural development program, initiated
in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living in the
rural areas. In 1979, a US$125.0 million loan was provided by the Bank to
help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation water
in the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood damage;
and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for Korea's
power system.
19.        The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975, has proved successful.
The project was designed to support Government policy by financing high
priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural, southwest region.
A loan of US$65.0 million for a second project for the development of the
region was approved by the Executive Directors in September 1979. A loan for
US$90.0 million was approved in April 1981 for a National Urban land
Development and Housing Project.
20.        In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures described in Part I above. Some of the most important of these
measures are incorporated into a structural adjustment program for which a
US$250 million structural adjustment loan was approved by the Executive
Directors in December 1981.
21.        The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external MLT debt
disbursed and outstanding at the end of 1981 was about 10%, and its share of
MLT debt service was of the order of 8% at that time. These ratios are
expected to be around 9% and 7% respectively by the mid-eighties.
PART III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
22.        Throughout much of the past 20 years, the Korean transport system
has been strained by the demands of rapid growth and it has required massive
public sector investments in infrastructure. The Government has been
allocating regularly, since the beginning of the Second Plan in 1967,



about one quarter of its total capital expenditure to expand and modernize
transport infrastructure. Investments have been concentrated on the
Seoul-Busan axis where most industrial development is taking place and other
corridors serving the northeastern and southeastern parts of Korea.
B. The Transport System
23.       Substantial changes in the modal distribution of traffic occurred
during the 1961 to 1981 period.  Freight traffic moving by rail, although
showing growth in absolute terms, fell from 88% of total ton-km to 46%,
while the road and coastal shipping shares increased from 8% to 21% and from
3% to 32%, respectively. For passenger traffic, the rail share of total
passenger-km fell from 53% to 25% over the same period, while the road share
increased from 45% to 73%. These changes reflect both the economic
advantages of the various modes and the different growth rates experienced
between industries served, as rail and coastal shipping increasingly were
concentrated on long distances and bulk commodities, while road transport
handled the short distance and more general cargo. In addition, rapidly
expanding personal consumption generated large increases in personal travel,
further fueled by changes in consumption patterns. Road transport has been
the main beneficiary of these increases.
24.       The Government's basic objective has been to increase the capacity
of the system in line with projected traffic growth and to avoid major
bottlenecks. This objective has been largely achieved. The present system is
reasonably balanced and there is no substantial uneconomic allocation of
traffic among the various modes. Investments in transportation have been
linked to broader concerns in Korea's spatial and economic planning. For
example, considerable efforts have been made to develop new industrial
complexes in coastal areas, to exploit low-cost coastal shipping while
avoiding excessive congestion on road and rail. Similarly, in its efforts to
ensure that appropriate development priorities were reflected in the
allocation of scarce transportation means among the competing claims, the
Government has maintained fairly tight regulations in the sector, involving
strict licensing of operators in road transport and shipping, and administered
pricing for all transport activities. Korea's vehicle fleet has been kept
small due mainly to a policy of high taxation of cars and high prices for
gasoline.
25.       Large investments in transportation infrastructure have been
complemented by a considerable effort to improve the efficiency of the
transportation system, through the establishment and strengthening of
institutions to plan, construct, maintain and operate the facilities and
services. In the public sector, institutions such as the Korean National
Railroad (KNR), the Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) in the Ministry of
Construction (MOC), the Korean Highway Corporation (KHC), and the Korean
Maritime and Port Authority (KMPA) have been strengthened or established, in



- 9 -
many instances with increasing financial and managerial responsibility, as
semi-autonomous public corporations. In the private sector, a highly
efficient contractor system has evolved for civil works which reflects both
the insistence on competitive bidding in the award of contracts as a matter of
policy, and the large volume of construction work that has been carried out in
Korea during the past 20 years.
26.       The Bank has played an active role in advising and assisting the
Korean authorities in pursuing their transport objectives.  Since 1962, the
Bank Group has assisted the KNR through seven railway projects amounting to
US$434 million. The first five projects have been satisfactorily completed
and a sixth is almost fully disbursed. Cost comparisons indicate that rail
transport is still the most economic means of moving bulk cargo over medium
and long distances, and for passenger traffic over long distances. Bank-
supported investments have concentrated on improved capacity and service
relating to these functions. KNR's efficiency is among the highest of any
rail system in the world, with staff productivity in 1981 measured per
employee at 800,000 in terms of traffic units (passenger-km plus net ton-km).
The Bank has also maintained an active dialogue on the railway's financial
situation, investment plans, and level and structure of tariffs. A coal and
cement distribution project which was recently appraised would strengthen the
capacity of the railways, ports and inland terminals to cope with the expected
increase in transport of these commodities, resulting partly from large coal
imports substituting for oil.
27.       Substantial assistance has also been extended for port development.
In part related to Korea's export drive, freight traffic through the ports has
increased from about 13 million tons in 1966 to over 120 million tons in 1981.
This large increase resulted in serious port capacity problems, particularly
at Busan, the biggest port, which handles 30% of the country's external trade
and is chronically congested. Containerization was introduced in Busan with
the assistance of the Bank under two port projects totalling US$147 million;
the Saudi Fund for Development participated with the Bank in the financing of
the first Busan Port Project. A third ports project, to further improve
container handling capacity, has been studied. This would be in addition to
port works under the coal and cement distribution project mentioned above.
28.       The four previous Bank-financed highway projects have had a major
impact in assisting Government with the improvement and expansion of the
national and provincial road networks and with institution building in the
MOC. Significant policy changes relating to the highway subsector, which
were effected through the highway projects, include the adoption of more
appropriate road standards, a few revisions of regulations governing vehicle
weights and dimensions, and modification of Government policy on toll roads.
MOC's organization to maintain the national road network was established and
strengthened through the provision of technical assistance and road



- 10 -
maintenance equipment. Korean consulting firms have benefitted through their
association with foreign consultants on the design of road projects.
C. Transport Objectives and Issues in the 1980s
29.        As described in Part I above, the medium-term prospects for a
resumption of Korea's former rapid progress remains uncertain.  The impact of
these developments on the transportation sector is two-fold. On one side, the
timing of investments needed to sustain further improvements in transport
capacity and quality of service will be influenced by growth-induced traffic
expansion. On the other side, the capacity of the public sector to finance
the necessary upgrading and extension of infrastructure and facilities in
transportation may be sharply constrained by budgetary limitations. For the
medium term, the Fifth Five Year Plan (FFYP) projects a CNP growth rate of
7.6% p.a. over the period 1982-86, with a corresponding increase in transport
demand estimated at about 47 billion passenger-km and 10 billion ton-km,
respectively 50% and 30% above fourth plan period outcomes. Investment in
transportation (both public and private) is expected to increase by 45% and
remain at close to 14% of the total planned outlay as in the Fourth Plan.
This amounts to some US$16.3 billion, calculated at 1980 prices and exchange
rates. However, investments in subways and aviation will absorb a larger
fraction of the total as will road vehicles and ships.  Hence, real investment
in the railway system, road and port infrastructure would increase by less
than 25% above Fourth Plan outlays.
30.         Whether or not economy-wide growth, transport demand and invest-
ments conform to plan expectations, it seems clear that the period of most
rapid development in Korea's basic transport infrastructure is now over. On
the other hand, the increasingly complex traffic patterns and higher traffic
densities, the growing requirements for maintenance of the expanded system,
and the need to conserve energy will call for even greater efforts to
maximize efficiency of service and the use of scarce investment capital
in this capital-intensive sector. Policies relating to pricing and
regulation of transport plus improved planning in respect of system
development are crucial in the now more demanding economic environment. A
Bank sector survey report, currently under preparation, has identified several
areas for improvement.
31.         Despite considerable efforts, spatial planning of the transporta-
tion system is still hindered by generally inadequate inter-agency coordina-
tion, a comparatively limited expertise in planning and economic appraisal
techniques, and in the capacity to undertake appropriate longer-term
pre-investment studies. World Bank efforts to provide support and
encouragement for these activities has met with mixed success.  In 1970, the
Government set up a Transport Planning Office in the Ministry of Transport
(MOT) on the recommendation of a study financed under a Transport Technical
Assistance Credit. The Government tried further, in 1975, to improve
transport coordination via a Transport Coordination Committee (TCC) with



- 11 -
representation from the various ministries most directly concerned. The TCC
has carried out coordination activities with limited success. The Budget
Bureau and the Project Evaluation Bureau of the Economic Planning Board (EPB)
review proposals by executing agencies for initiating individual projects but
effective mechanisms for coordinating the various transport investments have
yet to be worked out. The Bank has also, through various projects, provided
support and finance for technical assistance for a range of feasibility and
planning studies relating to national transport development, urban
transportation needs, inter-modal alternatives along major traffic axes (such
as the Seoul-Busan corridor) in addition to more conventional engineering
design work for proposed projects. Here too, experience shows a pattern of
relatively slow progress, reflecting in part the difficulties of sectoral
planning and transport coordination in the Korean context.
32.        Pricing policy and the regulatory framework have been a feature of
Bank-Government dialogue for many years. Emphasis was given to suporting
Government's efforts to establish agencies such as KNR and KMPA on a sound
financial basis, with investment planning linked to appropriate tariffs and
charges in regard to rail transport and ports. The role of the Bank has been
quite effective in this regard, although the priority given to reducing
inflation in the past two years has led to some reluctance to raise tariffs -
for example in rail transportation - in line with changes in costs.
33.        It is expected that the Bank's policy dialogue would be strength-
ened in future years through the increasing emphasis being given to a sector
and subsector approach in transport lending in Korea. The roads project now
proposed will deepen and broaden our involvement in the road subsector by
extending assistance, for the first time, to MOHA. This new involvement will
also provide the Bank with an opportunity to improve coordination of road
planning between MOC and MOHA and will strengthen the basis for a possible
highway subsector loan. Similarly, the recently completed ports study
examined broadly which ports should be developed to handle the nation's
traffic through the next decade and may lead to a port subsector loan. For
railways, the Bank has traditionally made sector type loans, financing time
slices of KNR's investment plans with the sixth and seventh railway projects
covering respectively 1978/79 and 1980/81 investments.
34.        Besides these subsector operations, we are assisting the Govern-
ment in developing multimodal projects. The first is the proposed coal and
cement distribution project, involving railways and ports. It would be
followed by projects directed toward increasing the capacity of the transport
system in certain high priority areas and corridors rather than dealing
separately with each modal system. To achieve this, the Bank will assist in
developing an integrated modal approach to meet the very high transport demand
near main urban areas where a dense network of facilities is needed. Through



- 12 -
such studies, Bank transport projects will continue to contribute to promotion
of the local transport consulting industry.
Highways
35.       The Network.  The public road network totals about 87,000 km com-
prising 13,400 km of national roads, 9,700 km of provincial roads, 11,500 km
of county roads and 52,400 km of village access roads. The national highways
include 1,245 km of toll expressways.  Road density at 0.9 km/sq km is
generally sufficient to serve transport needs, particularly as about 70% of
the total land areas is mountainous, but most of the network still needs
improvement. Despite heavy investments in road improvements since 1967 only
56% of the national roads, 8% of the provincial roads, and 5% of the county
roads are paved and a high level of investment will continue to be required to
ensure an adequate level of service for growing traffic volumes.
36.       Traffic and Road Safety.  Road transport has grown rapidly over the
last 15 years, not only in absolute terms but also in relation to other modes,
particularly railways. Road freight traffic grew twice as fast as total
freight traffic, averaging 45% p.a. in 1967-71, 13% p.a. in 1972-76 and a
decline of 4.2% p.a. in 1977-81. Nevertheless, the share of freight traffic
by road is expected to continue increasing in the long-term, although probably
more gradually.  Passenger traffic on highways also grew rapidly, at 14.9%
p.a. in passenger-km in 1967-71, 13.6% p.a. in 1972-76 and 9.5% in 1977-81,
and in 1981 it amounted to over two-thirds of the total with the remainder
going by rail, a complete reversal of the situation in 1961.
37.       While the growth of road traffic has been rapid, government policy
has been to regulate and to restrain growth. The policies of heavy taxation
motor vehicles and high user charges (gasoline taxes) were mentioned above
(para. 24). As a result, the motor vehicle fleet in Korea is still very small
when compared to other countries at similar levels of per capita income.
Restrictive commercial vehicle licensing policies have also contributed to
moderating traffic growth. These were somewhat relaxed following discussion
for the Second Highway Project (Loan 956-KO). A further modification is
included under the project now proposed to facilitate the introduction of
unscheduled transport services in remote rural areas, where such services are
now largely lacking due partly to the restrictive licensing system.
38.       A serious road accident problem exists in Korea.  For reasons not
fully understood, road fatalities were some 129 persons per 10,000 vehicles in
use in 1978 - more than twice the rate that would be expected on the basis of
experience in other developing countrie. Research on road safety and its
promotion are the responsibility of a Road Traffic Safety Association, linked
to MOHA. A road safety expert will be made available under the project to
assist the Association in the collection and analysis of traffic accident
data and in the preparation of a program for the reduction of traffic
accidents.



- 13 -
39.       Institutions.  The organizational and functional responsibilities of
national and local authorities for the various classes of the road network are
divided among several institutions. MOC exercises its responsibility for
expressways through a public corporation, KHC, and for the national roads
through its own BPR. MOHA is responsible for the provincial roads and,
through the counties, for the county roads.
40.       MOHA was not directly involved in highway management until recently.
A Road Development Section was set up in September 1979 to be responsible for
preparing and monitoring provincial and county road maintenance and the
development of the county road network. To handle the implementation of the
proposed project and the increased programs at county and provincial levels,
certain organizational changes are needed at the center as well as staff
increases at central, provincial and county levels.
41.       Planning.  Planning of the national road system, including
expressways, is done by the Planning Division of the BPR. MOHA has little
capacity at present for planning and under the project it will be built up
using the screening and selection methodologies prepared by consultants
financed under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1640-KO) and by training
selected MOHA staff in road development planning and transport economics.
Also under the proposed project a study of the road investment plans of MOC,
KHC and MOHA would be undertaken to ensure in the future that the various
levels of the road system will be planned in a coordinated manner.
42.       Finances.  The total capital and recurrent expenditures planned for
the FFYP 1982-86, for the national, provincial, county and city roads and
expressed in 1980 prices amount to W 1,770 billion or about US$3.0 billion and
are 25% higher than the W 1,420 billion spent in 1977-81. The FFYP road
investment program appears very reasonable in view of forecast traffic
increases of 40% and 27% in freight ton-km and passenger-km respectively.
Such increases in investment imply significant productivity gains in road
transport.
43.       The proposed road expenditures in the FFYP reflect a policy aiming
at more balanced investments between the national roads for which 50% of total
road expenditures has been earmarked, and the development of the provincial,
county and city road networks. The share for maintenance of national roads
has been increased to 15% of the expenditure on those roads. However, 57% of
all maintenance expenditures by MOC was spent by KHC on its network of 1,300
km, and the balance spent on the 12,000 km national road network.  This
imbalance reflects partly the higher traffic and standard of KHC expressways,
and also reflects the freedom of KHC to dispose of the funds collected through
tolls.  Past MOHA allocations for maintenance have been inadequate.
44.       In the past, MOF budget allocations to MOHA averaged about 11.5% of
total domestic revenues. Under new legislation, from 1983 MOHA will receive a
block grant amounting to 13.27% of estimated domestic revenues with adjust-
ments made in the following year based on the actual revenues received. The
amount of the block grant to MOHA for 1983 is estimated at W 791.4 billion



- 14 -
compared to W 719.0 billion received in 1982. In addition, the provinces
raise revenues through local taxes and receive subsidies from MOC mainly for
the maintenance of national gravel roads.
45.        Construction and Maintenance. As a result of the past concentration
on national roads and expressways, the Korean contractors have become very
experienced and efficient in the construction of high quality asphaltic
concrete pavements. However, they have little experience on the lower cost
double bituminous surface treatment (DBST) pavement which is often more appro-
priate for the development of the tertiary network with generally lower
traffic volumes. In keeping with Government policy of adopting least cost
solutions to transport problems, a shift to EBST pavements instead of
asphaltic concrete pavements would be supported under the project. The use of
DBST surfacing has considerable advantages in Korea. Potential cost savings
are substantial and would be of the order of W 100.0 billion over the next
25 years assuming that the 10,000 km gravel networlc of county roads would be
paved. Substantial saving in foreign exchange would also result. Maintenance
is also relatively simpler and the use of less sophisticated equipment allows
the participation of small local contractors.
46.        MOHA maintenance organizations at central, provincial and county
levels are particularly weak; no proper planning of work is done and the
maintenance is unsatisfactory due to lack of funds, trained staff, equipment
and materials. As a consequence, the condition of the provincial and county
roads is generally poor. Little regravelling work has been done and what
little has been done is unsatisfactory. Likewise, the paved sections of these
roads require heavy patching and resurfacing. To address these problems, the
Government, with Bank assistance, has had consultants, (BCEOM, France),
prepare a 5-year 1983-87 maintenance program for the provincial and county
road networks. This program is included under the proposed project.
47.        Past Highway Projects.  Results of the three highway projects that
have been completed are generally very satisfactory. A Project Performance
Audit Report (PPAR) on the First Highway Project (Loan 769-KO), including the
Transport Technical Assistance Credit (S4-KO) and on the Second Highway
Project (Loan 956-KO) was issued on June 25, 1980.  The PPAR found that the
physical components were completed ahead of schedule, with only slight cost
increases, but with quality defects on some roads resulting from rapid
execution needing correction after completion. The re-estimated economic
rates of return (ERR) for the construction components exceeded appraisal
estimates; 34% against 28% for the First Highway Project; and 30% against 26%
for the Second Highway Project. The maintenance component included in the
second project showed an audit return of 38% versus the appraisal estimate of
53%; this reduction was mainly due to delays in implementation and the
consequent partial effectiveness of the program.  The PPAR stressed the
substantial contributions of the Bank supervision missions to the establish-
ment of the BPR. A Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Third Highway
Project (Loan 1203-KO) vus issued on April 30, 1982.  The PCR found that the



- 15 -
civil works were completed on schedule with a cost increase of slightly more
than 1%. The re-estimated ERRs for the project roads ranging from 15% to 53%
exceeded the appraisal estimates of 12% to 35% due mainly to the rapid
increases in actual traffic volumes. The project provided assistance in the
future development of the national and provincial road network through a study
which screened and ranked, in order of economic priority, the roads in the
national and provincial road system. A major policy achievement was the
formulation of Government policy on tolls through a Toll Road Study carried
out under the project.
48.        Following increased budget allocations, progress is highly
satisfactory at present under the Fourth (ongoing) Highway Project, which is
expected to be completed in mid-1983.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.        The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MORA) during 1981 and 1982 with the assistance of expatriate and local
consultants whose services were financed under the Fourth Highway Project
(Loan 1640-KO). The project was preappraised in October 1981 and February
1982 and appraised in June 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington and
were completed on November 19, 1982. The Korean delegation was led by
Mr. Lee Hwan-Kyun.  A report titled "Staff Appraisal Report Provincial and
County Roads Project" dated November 22, 1982, is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
50.        The major objective of the project will be to support the Govern-
ment's policy of promoting economic development in rural areas by the
reduction of transport costs through the improvement of the county or tertiary
road network. Also included is the setting up of effective organizations at
central and local levels to maintain provincial and county roads. Previous
highway projects have helped improve the primary and secondary road networks
and substantially reduced transport costs. Under the rural development pro-
grams of the early 1970s, village and farm access roads connecting the
agricultural production centers to the road network were improved. However,
the county road network linking county centers and villages to the secondary
and primary network, has been neglected and remains unimproved. Furthermore,
the condition of the provincial and county roads has deteriorated due to the
increased traffic and lack of effective maintenance. This has resulted in a
major constraint to the development of the rural areas where agriculture, the
primary activity, still employs 34% of the country's work force. Accordingly,
the Government has given high priority in the FFYP to the improvement of the
county roads and to the maintenance of the provincial and county networks.



- 16 -
51.       The project would also contribute to greater efficiency of road
investments through a study to review the road investment plans of the KHC,
MOC and MORA. By analyzing the existing and projected traffic flows to
determine the interrelationships among the systems, the study would assist in
the balanced development of the road system.  Another important objective is
to promote the use of low-cost paving techniques, DBST, and train local
contractors and engineers in its use. The project would also help train MOHA
staff in road planning, economic analysis, equipment management, financial
management and accounting; help the Government improve road safety and help
improve transport services in remote areas. In helping to achieve these
objectives the project is a logical extension of the previous four highway
projects.
Project Description
52.       The project would comprise:
(a) the improvement of about 1,000 km of provincial and county roads of
which about 820 km will be paved and the remainder gravel surfaced;
(b) assist in setting up and providing equipment for organizations at
central, provincial and county administrative levels to implement a
maintenance program;
(c) consultant services for:
(i) supervision of construction;
(ii) technical assistance for the provincial and county road
maintenance program;
(iii) detailed engineering of an additional 1,000 km of county
roads;
(iv) assistance in the implementation of an on-site training
program for Korean contractors, MOHA and MOC staff in the
use of double bituminous surface treatment (DBST);
(v) a study on the integrated investment planning of the road
system; and
(vi) a road safety study.
(d) provision of overseas fellowships for the training of MOHA staff
in road planning, economic analysis, equipment management and
financial management and accounting.
The county roads were selected for improvement under a study by consultants
BCEOM (France) and Saman (Korea), which identified the roads through a
screening process based on economic profitability, road functions and regional



- 17 -
balance. These consultants also carried out a study on the maintenance of the
provincial and county roads and prepared a 5-year maintenance program and
identified the resources, manpower and equipment needed for the program. Both
studies were financed under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1640-KO).
Implementation Arrangements
53.       Items (a), (b), c (i)-(iv) and (d) above will be implemented by
MOHA. MOC will implement item c(v). The Road Traffic Safety Association
which is linked to MOHA, will carry out the Road Safety Study, item c(vi).
Road construction and supervision is expected to start in May 1983 and be
completed by December 31, 1986. Agreement on the road standards (Section 3.06
and schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement) and paving type for the roads
(Section 3.06 and Annex I of Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement) was
reached during negotiations as well as agreement on the acquisition of
rights-of-way (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). Road maintenance
equipment is expected to be procured in two tranches in May 1983 and May 1984.
The technical assistance and the preparation and implementation of the
maintenance systems, procedures and organizational techniques in three pilot
provinces is expected to start in July 1983. The procedures and systems
introduced under the maintenance program would be fully implemented in three
pilot provinces and would be reviewed continuously during implementation
before applying them in the remaining provinces.
54.       The study on the integrated investment planning of the road system
and the road safety study are expected to start in early and mid 1983
respectively and be completed within one year. Overseas training of MOHA
staff is expected to start in early 1983 and continue over a three-year
period. A total of some 1,070 manmonths of consultant services is estimated
to be needed for the project; about 800 man-months will be provided by local
consultants and the balance of 270 man-months will be provided by expatriate
consultants. Local consultants will be heavily involved in the preparation of
detailed engineering with about 28 man-months of expatriate consultants for
overall supervision and guidance. Expatriate consultants will provide about
150 man-months for the supervision of construction with local staff providing
about 300 man-months. An expatriate specialist in DBST paving will be made
available for a period of about 12 months starting in early 1983 to organize
and implement a training program for local contractors and engineers.
Expatriate consultants' services will be used for the study on the integrated
investment planning of the road system (12 manmonths) and for the road safety
study (4 man-months). For the technical assistance for maintenance of
provincial and county roads in the pilot provinces some 65 man-months of
expatriate consultants services will be needed with counterpart staff provided
by MOHA at central, provincial and county levels. Draft terms of references
for all consultant services were agreed during negotiations and consultants
will be employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Implementing Agencies
55.       This project will be the BanCks first involvement with MORA on a
road project; MOHA has only recently been involved in the improvement of the
provincial and county roads with the establishment of a Road Development
Section in September 1979. At present only four engineers in this section at
central MOHA are concerned with the preparation of the county road development
and the provincial and county road maintenance programs. A Road Management
Section was established in October 1982. The Government proposes to set up
a new section for Road maintenance by April 30, 1983. It will also establish
a Road Management Division by June 30, 1985 which will absorb the above
sections. It also proposes to double the engineering staff and strengthen the
administrative staff. Agreement was reached during negotiations on a time
schedule for the establishment of the Road Management Division and the Road
Maintenance Section (Section 3.08(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.        The road maintenance organizations at provincial and county levels
are weak, reflecting the problems described in para. 46 above. In part this
is also due to lack of guidance from central level in MORA. The project will
directly address these institutional problems through the provision of
technical assistance to strengthen the central MOliA planning and road
management functions and to introduce and test, in three pilot provinces, new
organizational functions, and new procedures covering cost control and
accounting, equipment management including an equipment renewal fund, and
improved operational techniques. The objective is to have effective
maintenance organizations in place in all provinces by 1987.
57.       MOC's involvement in the project is limited to the study on the
integrated investment planning of the road system. MOC will carry out this
component through its BPR Planning Division which is experienced in carrying
out studies and has been developed and strengthened with Bank assistance
through four previous highway projects. A committee of the representatives of
MOHA, KHC and EPB under the overall management of MOC, meeting regularly would
supervise the study and would contribute to institutionalizing balanced road
development. Establishment of this committee was agreed during negotiations
(Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Road Traffic Safety
Association is a civilian nor-profit corporation, reporting to MOHA, and is an
active, well staffed, and competent body for the implementation of the Road
Safety Study. In addition, improvement of transport services in remote areas
was addressed at negotiations and it was agreed that the Bank would be
provided with a plan and schedule for the introduction of unscheduled
transport services in a certain pilot area and that the operation of the
services would be monitored (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Project Costs and Financing
58.        Total project cost is estimated at US$259.7 million (W 193.5 bil-
lion) including contingencies and right-of-way costs. The foreign exchange
component of the project cost is estimated at about 52% or US$134.09 million.
The estimated total costs for consultant services are US$8.0 million, inclu-
ding US$2.8 million in foreign exchange. The estimates are based on previous
contracts with consultants for similar work. Average man-month cost of
expatriate consultant staff for all services is estimated at US$12,000
including salary and overhead, international travel and local allowances.
Local consultant staff man-month cost is estimated at US$2,600 including
travel and allowance. Taxes are estimated at W 14.73 billion or about 10% of
the cost of civil works. Physical contingencies of 10% were applied to all
components. Annual price escalation rates, in accordance with Bank guidelines
for Korea were applied to the civil works and equipment components as follows:
for local and foreign costs - 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985 and
6.0% thereafter; physical and price contingencies represent about 10% and 17%
respectively of base costs.
59.        The proposed Bank loan of US$125 million would finance about 93% of
the foreign exchange costs. The loan will be for a period of 15 years,
including three years grace at the standard variable interest rate. In
addition to the counterpart funds to meet the capital costs of the project,
MORA would provide about W 18.4 billion for 1983, W 26.7 billion for 1984 and
W 35.8 billion for 1985 to meet the recurrent costs of the provincial and
county road maintenance program over the three-year project period. During
negotiations, it was agreed that Government will provide all the funds needed
to implement the project (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement) and in
particular, those required for the maintenance of the roads (Section 4.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
60.        Contracts for the county road improvement works will be unit priced
and will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
among prequalified firms, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Road
maintenance equipment will be procured through contracts awarded on the basis
of ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines; a margin of preference of 15%, or
the import duties and taxes, whichever is lower will be allowed to domestic
manufacturers. The periodic maintenance, repaving and about 30% of the
re-gravelling of the provincial and county roads to be funded by local funds,
will be awarded on the basis of local competition. Disbursement from the Loan
will be made over a 3-1/2 year period on the basis of:
(a) 50% of the total cost of the county road improvement works;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported road
maintenance equipment or 100% of the local expenditures (ex-factory
price) excluding identifiable taxes and duties, of locally
manufactured equipment;



- 20 -
(c) 100% of the costs of foreign and local consulting services; and
(d) 100% of the costs of the overseas training of staff.
A disbursement schedule is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Benefits and Economic Return
61.       The main benefits from the improvement of the 1,000 km of provincial
and county roads are substantial savings in vehicle operating costs (VOCs)
accruing to road users. These savings are estimated at a minimum of 25% and a
maximum of 45% of existing VOCs. Other benefits include reduction in travel
time equivalent to about 15% of the total VOC savings. Other non-quantified
benefits relate to the Government's intention to promote unregulated mini-bus
services for passengers and goods in rural areas which would provide faster,
more frequent and more comfortable service to the rural population. The ERR
for the county roads, calculated over an assumed 20-year service life, range
from 15% to 50%. Overall, the ERR for this component which accounts for about
80% of the total cost, is 30%.
62.       The economic analysis of the maintenance component has been made on
the basis of the implementation of the entire 1983-1987 provincial and
county road maintenance program as prepared by the consultants BCEOM,
(France) and Saman (Korea). The benefits, comprising substantial savings in
VOCs ranging from 17% for gravel road and 10% for paved roads, will accrue
gradually as the maintenance program is implemented and have been accounted
over a period of eight years, from 1985 to 1992, the assumed average life of
the equipment. Traffic growth rates have been assumed at 7% for provincial
roads and 5% for county roads. The main cost component are the recurrent
expenditures and the capital outlay for equipment and facilities and the
costs of technical assistance and training. The maintenance program over
the ten-year period considered is expected to yield an ERR of 92%.
63.       The county road improvement component of the project is not subject
to unusual risks with respect to execution and essentially consists of similar
works already executed by MOHA. The introduction of the new paving method,
DBST, is a manageable risk that the training program for contractors and staff
will reduce considerably. Cost estimates have been based on detailed
engineering and on the experience of MOC and the consultants with recent
similar works. Assuming no time savings, a 25% increase in construction costs
and a 25% decrease in benefits, the overall ERR for the county roads improve-
ment would decrease but remain a high 19%. Because of the institutional,
procedural and training problems related to the setting up of a new effective
organization for the maintenance of the provincial and county roads some cost
increase and decrease in benefits may be anticipated although these should be
minimized with the help of the technical assistance team. Assuming a 20% cost
increase in maintenance expenditures combined with a reduction of 25% in
expected benefits, which is a rather conservative assumption, the ERR would
decrease to about 51% and the economic justification of the maintenance
program would not be impaired.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                              by: Ernest Stern
November 23, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-22 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
KORIA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
AOREA REPUBLIC OF                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGITED AVE4U ES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. YM.)                                                                   )IST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             98.5                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      22.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US2)                  190.0        430.0    1520.0                  890.1                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      208.0       657.3    1472.5                   701.7                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25012.0      32241.0   38197.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7         40.7       54.8                   32.4                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        52.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          70.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       254.0       327.4      381.8                  255.9                    35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.8       1389.1    1669.4                  1748.0                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.9        42.1       35.1                   39.9                    39.7
15-64 YRS.                          53.7        54.6       61.1                   56.8                    56.1
65 YRS. AND A6DVE                    3.3         3.3        3.8                    3.3                     4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.1         2.5        1.9                    2.3                     2.4
URBAN                               4.7         6.4        4.9                    3.9                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      42.7         30.3      25.3                   31.8                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.4          9.1       7.9                    9.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.7          2.1       1.6                    2.0                     2.1
FARILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TNOUSANDS)        ..       671.0      686.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         32.0       49.1                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           89.0        99.0      113.0                  115.6                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    97.4       107.0      117.2/d                106.4                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           57.1        62.8       72.175                 54.4                    66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         7.0         8.2       14.3Td                 13.9                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       8.6          3.9       2.1                    6.7                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.4         60.3       65.4                   59.8                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            78.3         50.1      34.1                   63.7                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              12.1         58.0      71.0                   32.0                    65.6
URBAN                              18.6        84.0       85.0                   51.9                    78.9
RURAL                               9.5        38.0       54.9                   20.5                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         25.0      64.0/e                 37.7                    59.3
URBAN                                ..        59.0       68.0Te                 65.7                    75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.0/e                -24.0                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3540.8      2238.3    1978.8/d                8540.4                  1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3245.1/f_g  1786.5/f   487.47T                4829.4                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2513.5      1949.5      642.4/e               1047.5                   477.4
URBAN                            1286.9      1095.3      754.8/e                651.6                   679.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 2597.6                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         14.9        .-                   27.0                    27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.6         5.0        4.5
URBAN                               5.4           ..
RURAL                               5.6           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.5         2.3        2.O/c
URBAN                               2.8         2.7        2.17T*
RURAL                               2.4         2.2        2. 0T.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              28.4        49.9
URBAN                              67.3         92.4
RURAL                              12.4         29.9      64.9/d



- 2 3-                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
KUKLA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                REFERENCE GQOUPS (WEICNTED AVEACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBLAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTJED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  94.0        105.0     111.0                    96.2                     104.3
MALE                  99.0        106.0      112.0                   99.8                     106.4
FEMALE                89.0        105.0     111.0                    92.1                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0         42.0      76.0                    37.6                      41.3
MALE                  38.0         51.0       82.0                   41.1                      40.4
FEMALE                14.0         33.0       70.0                   34.1                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)  14.2           14.3       19.7                   20.8                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.2         56.9      48.1                    35.5                      29.9
SECONDARY                           34.3         36.5      39.0                    25.0                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6         87.6       93.0                   73.1                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.5          1.9       6.2                     9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          31.2        124.4     402.2                   116.5                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3         13.1     150.6                    37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0        136.3     172.8                    53.7                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            5.2       2.0                     2.8                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8307.2      11285.2   14637.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    26.1         32.7      32.5                    33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.0         30.0      34.0                    52.2                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.0         18.0      29.0                    17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.2         35.0      38.3                    38.5                      33.6
MALE                                  49.5         46.8      51.3                    50.5                      50.4
FEMALE                                17.2         23.0      25.1                    26.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.3        1.0                    1.1                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/h         17.1      16.11/
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.37w;        44.5      45.37;.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5. 77h         7.1       5. 77;
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.07h         17.7      16.97;
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                     320.0                   194.7
RURAL                                 .                   270.0                   155.1                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                     370.0                   178.2                    518.0
RURAL                                               .     310.0                   164.9                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                      18.0                    24.4
RURAL                                                      11.0                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are populatio-weighted aritha-tic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and {a not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976. /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; L  1962; /h 1965.
Nay, 1982



-24-
ANiNEX T
ULw   AEheeg  the ate  -r  dre  fro        rt  geeseLly J.&Igd the  o  aebriate                rlibe  tt ahold ala  be OES that they may et he later-
mcctoeelly        " taeblehea  of the lack of ataatad doltltt-  -A tmaout  tee  by dtffe-e  cereet  tloto   o  d-ta   ma. daar.  etmc
th -e.aeaLe  Oo doeclibe opie o  agetad.   di-ast  to          . ha cherttert. oc0   ajar dtff.or.. becam   -o -ota
TO. re=ate  poo..ar  (1) the ast-try grow  of th. -ebj-c  cearr  h   (2) a coor  groo  otto  -sb.t higher avrgs it,te  thee oh  rnygru
of c           - 7beto.t  er  for '1oel"  Saryle  oil teero' grop hare TOut). teas Oorh Africa ada Ml.ti  teat" i. tha-  Oe-aa  of eo e
shanIty of the co i-toe  to a gro    ea data f.o.httt.otr    tt  th --    feerg   at  o-la   .-a  the  ai"ttaar  dap-aa 0o.    J.otbLebity of data
eat o a   aofoo. tattt at be  r- ee  to releea  aveage  of  -n ietdoato  to  the.  Tlb.a o-ea- or  aly 'eflt    atat.vao
Toal - Ttlmafc  era.  osiolg lead to.eitloat atra                                          ch. oat rural)ditdd byt obtar  -epette  t-br of haaitte1 bade
fo Wrpe   atort. arbt ea  bit.h.  gardec  ortoLe fallo; 1971 data                        b,bltataraer.          Io t la too         ' eeahtost  re -oetl  ataf fd
by a? 1mat ... phyetc.a .. taabtaet   etovding Prnl-illyoo...
M9  PEI CAPITA QV99) - GO  We t-rite eatf-c   attot-   moe   roa a-da  ca.aeta_oltt.=Sara  hoaota.a. bow-a-  1a-let  heolob
rlctby eaa  roaeta  atd 00 torlt =ckArIas (1977-79 baet); 19C0C                           ,ad  =ao.   cter, ea  rooaanly ...off a  by a rtyatcte  (bat by a
.970  . ed 1979 daa-ha..tl aettnt                                                                                   -an  e)otf a. at...) wic  offer tn-racitc
tatto  mad pooide a itttd cage of aStral factlttoe.  Wor atat-
UhEOO  C9MMT794 yfl CA7ITA - eae    oto    f tased    og   (taai                                  ctro  myv-c  arOs  ocptla  nlate WED.toialmar.  oott
ea     "-Ie-rtolm.  -etoe  gee ant tfl-.  -acea  eat gathe l.lao-                        eat rural hboPrtco1o loca  00 cut)hadi-ahaatte  ada  -a )y
tr.iot) to tiloge  of re-I eqteae   o  crt; ic. 1970. ad 1 97,caor.    ratLtae   hcartal  ar.I,oatol  otta  tetol.
fro  m  eitc le irdt  by the  hbor of bate.
Total  orelacan. ctt-fo )coee.)-a f Jaly 1; 1940. 1970, ea  1979                      EUtOc
data.                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-eroa  Ote  of  aoeoed (ojEoao   Flr hochl)    Aot. orbs. ed rual
latortl.otia  foeoar o f =toa) - "att  of urba  to   . toa   opePI.l-to;                        A hoU.aol coteof a grou  of ttoteawosaalro                              tr
dtffere  daftltot  ofarm  em   my affec- aaolc                     f face                     hd chb"      amae   A hoarde  or loge  -y or   y atbe ccldod to
Proalator. Ia  ear 200  - Correc  coretlat   rrjecoe  ea    doe  on190)                  boo of rer-n  rot roo   to 1 al-ret   a  r              pior dtt  onat
total pralatli  by cg    a Man  etch"t'  -art ty eat fa"'Llicy tes.haltg,roeaiay    elltgs ea1ot  -c-eaotatatrse
?rjette  aecomfa  n-ltty o-ce   taro            f tbra I.lawl    a-ocr)tpra
to0 lia arrecarry  t hatc   -ataato  otho -oarya." .er ,capitaflaco   to El eotit  rra  o  olra   tact)l ,orb    eat rura  -
lae. ed f-ete  lIfe  -gcar    tbtllatg at 77Cc y-era   ma. rae                           oratnloe             eRUbcetritlty to  Uine q--rer  ae ractata
ccre forfr  -Iy   a.ae  her   o.  oe. almangIdeclL-in   tof toa,  rs,ad  ua  doelltso e.                                            c ey
Oe_h   _to-r   O  th_e _neaga   _e  of these  a   al-    ctao f ear ftal                WtiATtM
eat feo1t7lc   crha. for trobetle- yaroa.                                                 Minte  tocl tt. iato
St,to   poou.tm      oaett.es  rrocltta- there to a  g,oah eis                                =riEr :too  - cot)  a.  oa              a-ba    at)  etLa ada fs.-
oh.htrh ote  e aua) to  h  d--obyrt-, ad aIr Obe aoe acotu  r- -aal.aent of all toe. 0  tha Prtary love  aerrma.   f  etep-tlr
iterato.Tbla to  r-tra  co17 after farili"toyrae  decL-e to                          procry achol-eg  tora1ocoI;   -coll  teLotte rhildra agdfb-I
to   et   -1a lvlo  alt oa  roor-teco     ae  oh-  ach gs-ktI-                           aboo adjotad f.o  d offrac  lgthe of proary edecti:o  fo
of   rttt  itself ecotly.  Th  oe.toer  rcoet                 . ee.                     cotoesoth   aterl adcooo                Uoola   myeeaa  100 te-a
t  had on the ba. of rho ptrolroa  rooretcr f to. pcralett                                  =     =t onrttle are boworchr  to. official act)ge
to to  yea  2)00, ha the race of fatten  of faill"toyrttoorpla.-                           ec_=a    orbs   _ total . ale eatb fade  - _Cemta  ca tve  ecodary
e.a bee be   o-hat.                                                                            ...ally of 12 to 17 yare of Ege;  -araymPb      caoorae-r  gsearLIy
Par ec  5   Kit-ea  ro.ittmrtaaaAleta  (100  atora) of                                        Ooaioa   aole    r traof.ctcy)-Vateltatcrie
toa  te;90  197  ada 197   aa                                                        oltetcecl   otsra,o   thrpor    bc  oret  todopha-
Porlatreteeborecoro9 ac't) - Chlldam  (0-it yer..   a"g-oge (15-                          7ra-y ea   -bdotry lo.-Ia divided by           ar   f  -eahec- nh
ccyae.a-rtrd  (65 ya. oa  ove) tetraa.   fat-erpo.P.-                                     ocraoeio   te.
latico; 1900, 1970, eed 197 9 da. -401 dlIterary rac   (parat) - itaro.e etolbta  (abl, to  -At ea- mOo
roralottor, Got-h dat . rrr.       - ota  -  ..t.L groth rco f toct oa-                           eaaccecceo   oa -           lal  rorala.tow  age  15 yar  ea  oto
yea  ro ltto"' foo15-)  thh-60           ad  197079
?oolctco`trah ar.a (re-s) - orbs - a- I "-oeh rea   f ats- tort-                            UeStfITfON
ict-n  for 1950-60, 1960-70. oa  :970-70                                                     eaear9aa(c  rho,,a,  ouoat- )-i                   sercaerortoso
r_te Scot Oats (ra- tou-ad) -   -om .l.(o  bio.-  -a  tbm-aed of .0ya                          -cra eaig  se Mb  tght  eta ; ooloootl -no     hee--  a
Po-a-ecIT:  9)  197)  et1979 dat..eitr    eile
_da.    o  et  orthtat   4octh  lath   rer  bbsent  of et-erdaic c.ora(a  thooeet orltc -   loysof r-carer  fo  rai
roteootoot  106)  197. ha 1979  ot,ra  ot  to gter) rbll  par tho.ead of rocltco    sro.a-
GZOca   artotitelt       vrg   ero   agrr       m    01btt                                      llrao.d rcbgst  osro   a   oyamargtetno   a
tar atm  rertoroe   aro   if s.  soteapes  ag-pct                          cI.a-.at as1 Mtoaftfat; data    rrco  yara  -y ttbeopolstr
rUtt  ra..  -mall  ftr-y-.a  oooroge  hao   to 1960.  9).   1979.                           eccr-rtahooehfliomteg.
of btrr-n_o  doo.  tdr cyr   f  --t1ta  fealty PIasaro oroore.                               ganeo) toblicp re   hcaa  tolcoc   toe   ati-aee   TV=ea)
yaeoy ?aacne-0or.(stat  f arote    m )- Peromcag  ofariodi  r-tcrta  cod to year. osrgertnof TOVet  iato offa-
me   f cildbaotngag  (1-hoyaea)  he eebItto-oanoru  d-Lecto                     mooe  itoaton  ioar t"ouon  pd,,a1coio     - theme th -aerg   ti-
dettaoaotoca  pri-rily to  -recottg  e-.ra  oat   It tor-etda
Pa Mf OfTOTIhO                                                                                 cbc h'diy if totaeroo  liner -4f or  o   aoo
late  of FootKrdactoot oar Ispt  (1969-71-1001 - team  of ta   ateaa)                         Iaa   ae    teaec   a   ctoorYa    at                    a   h   a       f
rtato of al  otctc.s              rdactibb  -lode   med  af.at eaWOOt   cddrn t                               o.year. lacIatingaeioat  oIet                   i
to - sLaada  ye  ba-).  Casti-is  toerpr y good  (a.e. erara                              eat  abila   lt
tootat of euger) oboot o. edIb. h4 rott   ctiato e. o... _tffcan
aetca.)I oveag   troera  tro    igts;14"         6    90  eat199   7t.                       ot.)Laryre (.thoete     geeac.lyec -eoes , oe-.otta
Pa   ort arl-oPclns(ara ofarcseca)-Coeftfo                                                    ta   trast...glyd   u  cc... temte,  Odot.-                            r.
-eS   qarla   fa    od  aotorlol   nrary  rtcrc                                             oetgrrltid, of .11 age             D. -o olf    i   aiat- otra   r
oatda.    r blal   opalta- remte. deatto  prodatidt.   ptarot   ee                    eat roroo;196). 197) ant 1979da.
lbooa.h  -eae  to atot.  Oat ecoyl. eaLada  nI    f-ea. aed,                        .e(00bc)-Fb   ao  foor  aapetogaB of toa .. aIhorb  f-r..
qan)t   eeIn Oha pro-eots  ha 1c.e  in d"totrbo-t. gaer-ceiotroCarct      eo  fort ...                                     f coing, fo-st. hbctin ea
eta  ecro asoteatedby FAGD heaton     lbyat)oAr-  teet  for ealoti-                   flba   .pomtg   f tota  1.c ot;1960. 197) act 1979 date
acehedloe;  91-0  1970, hA 1977 data.                                                        107)  a 1979 dora
no   arly of foo  o  dy       a aptl  offtat     tdf tad ta obore.  Os-                  atvtrtaorgtde   o..el,h    asalbrfr.
qato ofor all  -osri   -atallatsd by USDA prorde forea-rratg.  fttl   l   a  Os).  pp.atoo   l  oo   a ctoy
alo ao   0gre  of tota  prote.. I y day ha ZO goa of ecOl ha                       19600  1970, ha 1979' dta   mTe. ar  beaed o   (aortitnrto.t
ocatrtto   f oLLbih1  foeeaal  be anima  Procet.  mb.- eoat-                            taflatong ag-as aturr f oh   ou.to . o   lom  tn  trha.  A
..r -ar  Iar its- them ofg 75 gre   f totl rnai  h   23   m- of                             fc e-i--ca  000 fro.     atot -. .oc.ca
at lPr"ot  ae       ve 1gefo   oh.1mod. prooh  by PAC          ~ to oh  Thlrd         toaei lceDoac  Satlo-  gat   f Pageloolo  -dar 1.5 ha 955h 
dotd  oodbre; 191-6, 17). ha 1977 da._.                                                 toth  tt   lbo  forca.
rtvd fom   laca h   paaeato   re   ar  ay  1961-65t. 970 ada 1977data.      UPC   DIjyyErgyOa
Chid (neI-I  oooclio Ste (car th-cat  -ta   deah  my thoaet o .r_.o  o P                             inec    or   oOtoc          dth    cltd) - tR-lmat by  Irh-it
oga troo  1-I yar. to  illdre  to tb-a ogo -oo; f.r ct  doecte   om                       rroo  rratOfprat.poae   0rrrc.h   roa   0  at
rroaa  ate artoeffroe  ifeebs;16. 19 70     1979 lae                                    f hataahola."
POVw,r TAorT troom
L.fai!  racya  tOrn79 '17   ifera;Aar        nha   f  er         f ll  tloog.t folcro   atoa    rtvr1rooat1atooo   oer   aee
co llob;  901.1970.da-979detO               af -hal) e-lotryracac oItt condstdoe     cuIn
bleatoorc1loy  ate   oo tiuaen) - anel  eathaof tfata   act  oo yer  tateeta obaloor  overr loca leel (I) oa  rorcal -crheoadb rrald
occaor  Sfe  ote   crrot  f                                                               _ooltoo   oa  h,h   ool-tt'ctitbonelly  dtqa    ist ple  temce   c-foo   raarec    .ea
catar cprlf  trbotaotints   urfasotaro o  ootretol bt otcoeaaoooct   Tectoted SleotrePovert  torc-Lere-  1)5 o-  cor-t) - orec- actrural1
(otorlo oratetooet lraca  oat  ra th   110  ater  fromo heaa flyto        (ael 000 adcao-n   for  laca  coatof Irine c  orb
roeseebla  coenatool  flA   thoro.hcsloo   er           f th-ema.                     d rurl   Psromat ofpoleoc(uor ha  ura) obo ar  'bo
ho ac   o,t   tmtaderya            Iooarr  of the day to facchiag tO                          por
octocat b-g)(rato   uolte-totl                          _rs  eat. tat),
tale   of rall (ttl..h. i      hap i   rurl) ae   by aret  dl- -oe  aai-1
c.tectgaeof  oot  tatettv  roalaiot.  PcrtyI. decalmyatlO
toocolottt h   oaroc. otIorotoco  teaeb,  ob-f tc    aot                                                               cuermdbra   noIvao



- 25   -                                           ANNEX  I
Population:  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)                                                                                Page  4  of  5
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,516 (1980)
KOREA - ECONOMIIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                           Annual growth rates (%) at constant prices
current prices)                                 Actual                                        Projected
Indicator                               1980/a              1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981/a    1985        1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product               59,177              13.9        10.1       11.3        7.1       -3.5        8.0        7.6        8.0
Agriculture                         9,754              10.7        2.1       -4.0        6.7      -22.0        23.0        2.5        2.5
Industry                           24,396              20.1       15.8       20.8        8.4       -0.5         4.7       10.0       10.0
Services                           25,027              10.8        9.7       11.0        6.0       -4.2         2.9        7.0        7.0
Consumption                          45,215               8.8        7.1        11.0        7.4       -1.0        4.2        4.8        6.4
Gross investment                     17,889               8.0       24.0       35.9        17.5      -24.4        5.6        8.5        7.6
Exports of GNFS                      21,145              43.0       25.7        17.5      -3.6         9.9       17.5       11.0       10.6
Imports of GNFS                      25,846              26.9       23.8       29.1         8.6       -7.7        7.9        7.4        8.8
Gross national savings               12,268              42.3       17.3        14.1        3.7     -17.7        18.0        -          -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 = 100)                               116.3      135.8      164.6       197.4      246.7      289.0        -          -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                                  484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      607.6         -          -          -
Export price index (1975 = 100)                         112.8      120.2      137.2      161.2       168.7      179.9      240.9      321.1
Import price index (1975 = 100)                         103.0      103.9      108.4      137.3       175.2      170.2      233.5      316.6
Terms of trade index (1975 = 100)                       109.5      115.7      126.6      117.4       96.3       105.7      103.2      101.4
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                        Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              8.6        9.8        8.2        7.3        7.7
Agriculture                       36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4              4.3        4.9       -1.2        5.3        2.5
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2             17.4       15.3       13.5        9.1       10.0
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3             8.1         7.7        7.6        6.2        7.0
Consumption                       85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1             6.7        7.8         7.1        4.8        6.1
Gross investment                  11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8             23.6       11.2       14.6        9.2        8.8
Exports of GNFS                    3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6             29.3       25.4       16.1       10.9       10.5
Imports of GNFS                   12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9            20.2        15.8       17.0        7.2        8.4
Gross national savings /b          8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7        -        -           17.2       14.6        -          -          -
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1980           Millions    (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                   4.7       32.2
Current revenues                           18.5       17.8       17.9       19.9            Industry                     3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                       14.3       13.1       15.4       15.6            Services                     5.1       35.5
Current surplus                             4.2        4.7        2.5        4.3            Unemployed                   0.7         5.2
Capital expenditure                         3.4        6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                           ...        1.0        1.3        1.0                Total Labor Force       14.5      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GCP growth rate (%)                                   8.7              9.0               7.9               7.5              8.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                       5.9               6.9               5.2               5.9              6.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                   14.2              9.6              12.3/c             7.7               ...
ICOR                                                         1.9              2.7               5.4               4.7              4.4
Hlarginal savings rate                                       0.3              0.3               0.3               0.5              0.4
Import elasticity                                            2.2              1.6               2.0               1.0              1.1
/a Preliminary.
/b Including net transfers.
_c 1975-79.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
April 1982



A6rNEX I
- 26-                                                  'age 5of 5
Population      :  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)
GDP per capita:  US$1,516 (1980)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                       Actual                                            Projected
1970     1975    1976    1977    1978    1979        198Q    1981/a    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services          1,379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,523  22,577  27,400    55,074 121,077
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.           882   5,028   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,214  20,850    43,368  97,476
Imports of goods and services          2,180   7,992  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,115  28,347  32,655    59,810 119,694
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.         1,804   6,671   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  21,598  24,105    45,557  95,014
Net transfers                            178      225      345      222      467      439      449      512        668      893
Current account balance                 -623  -1,858    -307          8  -1,060  -4 153  -5,321  -4,743    -3,968  +2,276
(% of GNP)                             (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-1.1) (+0.02)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.3)  (-7.2)    (-3.3)  (+3.1)
Direct investment                         66       53       75       72       61       17       96      122        800   1,749
MLT loans (net)                          242   1,252   1,238   1,458   2,746   2,944   2,096   3,419             3,821   6,019
Official                               147      486      663      594      663      853      689   1,108        893       908
Private                                 95      765      575      864   2,083   2,090   1,408   2,311         2,927   5,111
Other capital                            372      929      308    -167  -1,039   2,090   4,362    1,792          1,682  -7,436
Change in reserves                       -57    -376  -1,314  -1,372    -707    -898    -863    -326    -1,348  -2,611
International reserves                   610      797   1,985   2,992   2,828   3,112   3,975   4,301            9,352  19,370
Reserves as months imports               3.4      1.2      2.4      2.7      1.8      1.5      1.7      1.6        1.8      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                          -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -          -        -
Concessional loans                     123      123      238      163      184      193      138      159        205      200
DAC                                  122      108      226      132      167     173      121      158        205      200
OPEC                                   -        -        -       21       13       20      17         1          -        -
IDA                                    1       14       10        9        3       -        -        -          -        -
Other                                  -        1        2        1        -        -       -        -
Non-concessional loans                 317   1,511    1,518   2,040   3,729   4,448   3,655   4,779           7,457  13,855
Official export credits               18      151      132     262      219      341      606      844        711   1,054
IBRD                                   7      189     286      190      321      426      254      306        611   1,075
Other multilateral                     5       87       83      85       89       91       90      104        168      255
Private                              287   1,083   1,017    1,503   3,101    3,591   2,705   3,525          5,968  11,471
Medium- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                          1,797   5,540   6,817   8,593  11,937  14,553  16,585  19,766    36,538  59,291
Official                             613   2,657   3,359   4,121   5,016   5,667   6,531   7,806    12,102  16,440
Private                           1,185   2,883   3,458   4,472   6,921   8,886  10,054  11,960    24,436  42,851
Undisbursed                            902   1,629   3,459   4,793   6,294   5,337  11,293   5,047            5,828   9,208
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                 268      667      910   1,201   1,827   2,634   3,192   3,505          7,083  13,444
Interest                            70      283      392      475      659      936   1,442   1,791        3,242   5,408
Payments as % exports                 19.4    11.3       9.6      9.2    10.7    13.5    14.2    12.9           12.8    11.1
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                            ...   2,409   3,04S   3,239   3,575   6,279  10,047  13,658           18,649  15,864
Interest payments                      ...      ...      ...      152      236      377     907   1,810       2,237   2,261
Interest as x exports                  ...      ...      ...      1.2      1.4      1.9      4.0     6.7         4.1      1.9
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (%)
Official                               4.5      7.9      7.1      7.9      7.4      7.6        -        -          -        -
Private                                7.1      9.3      8.3      8.4      9.7    11.5         -        -          -        -
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                              28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    16.8             -        -          -        -
Private                               10.9      5.7      8.7      8.8      9.3      9.3        -        -          -        -
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                            35.6
Maturities due within 10 years                            61.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                             6.3
/a Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
April 28, 1982



ANNEX II
- 27 -                            -F&-8- of  13 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                                                             Amount ($ million)
Credit      Calendar                                                               (less cancellations)
Number        Year         Borrower             Purpose                        Bank      TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-one  loans and eight credits fully disbursed                          1,299.01  40.0  106.81
1203          1976    Republic of Korea       Highways III                      90.0                        0.55
1319         1976    ADC                      Irrigation                        29.0                        7.97
1364         1977    ADC                      Irrigation                        95.0                       29.03
1401         1977    Republic of Korea        Ports II                          67.0                       14.29
1474         1977    Republic of Korea        Vocational Training               23.0                        0.80
1503         1978    ADC                     Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                       23.05
1530         1978    Republic of Korea       Rural Infrastructure II            95.0                       17.47
1542         1978    Republic of Korea       Railway VI                        120.0                        1.22
1574         1978    KDB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                  110.0                        0.21
1635         1978    KLTCB                   Dev. Finance Co.                  100.0                        0.37
1640         1978    Republic of Korea       Highways IV                       143.0                       37.04
1666         1979    Republic of Korea       Chungju Multipurpose              125.0                       58.05
1676         1979    Republic of Korea       Electronics Technology             29.0                       12.97
1749         1979    SMIB III                Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                        0.71
1758         1979    Republic of Korea       Second Gwangju Regional            65.0                       50.74
1774         1979    Republic of Korea       Population I                       30.0                       29.25
1788         1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                               115.0                       94.32
1800         1980    Republic of Korea       Education V                       100.0                       79.83
1829         1980    CNB I                   Dev. Finance Co.                   30.0                       10.78
1836         1980    Republic of Korea       Railway VII                        94.0                       16.50
1851         1980    AFDC                    Agriculture II                     50.0                       27.83
1932         1981    KLTCB VIII              Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                       38.65
1933         1981    KDB IV                  Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                       22.72
1974         1981    Republic of Korea        Third Agriculture Credit          50.0                       34.32
1980         1981    Republic of Korea        Nat. Urban Land & Housing         90.0                       84.32
2004          1981    SMIB IV                Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                       54.58
2071          1982    Republic of Korea       Structural Adjustment            250.0                       80.30
2072          1982    Republic of Korea      Water Supply                       90.0                       90.00
2111          1982    Republic of Korea       Agricultural Marketing            50.0                       49.27
2112          1982    KTDC                    Technology Development            50.0                       48.47
2144          1982    CNB                     DFC                               30.0                       30.00
Total                                                          3,765.01  40.0  106.81   1,045.61
of which has been repaid                                       362.52   -       -
Total now outstanding                                          3,402.49  40.0  103.12
Amount sold                       8.83
of which has been repaid        8.83                             -      -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                               3,402.49  40.0  103.12
Total undisbursed                                              1,045.61   -       -       1,045.61



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                          Amount ($ million)
Year      Obligor                 Types of Business            Loan  Equity Total
1968    KDFC                       Development Financing          -      0.7    0.7
1969    Honam Silk Co.             Textiles                      1.4    0.3    1.7
1970    Atlas Paper                Pulp and paper                4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                       Development Financing          -      0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products            16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.           Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975    Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.      Tourism                       2.8    0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976    Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                           5.0    0.5    5.5
1976    Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                           15.0    4.0   19.0
1976    KDFC                       Development Financing        17.8     -    17.8
1976    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -     0.2    0.2
1977    KDFC                       Development Financing          -     0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.           Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.           Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                       Development Financing          -     1.1    1.1
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -     1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                       Capital Market                 -     0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                          -      0.2    0.2
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -     1.5    1.5
1980    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -     1.8    1.8
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1980/82 Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                          -      1.1    1.1
1980    KDFC                       Development Financing          -     2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal        Grain Port Terminal           7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
1982   KIFC                        Capital Market                 -     0.6    0.6
1982   K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)       Research & Development         -      0.7    0.7
Total gross commitment                                106.4   28.9  135.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                  75.2    4.0   79.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                      31.2   24.9   56.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                        -      1.2    1.2
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1 AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project comprises irrigation and land development on 10,350 ha
together with river channel improvements and village roads. The project area
has been reduced from 12,665 ha at appraisal as a result of deleting about
2,300 ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation in
construction costs, have become uneconomic. The project has been divided
into eight subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract.
One of these subprojects has been completed, and four more will be completed
by mid-1984; loan disbursements will be limited to these five subprojects.
An extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam on the Yong San river, sea dike, pumping plants, irrigation
canals, reclamation of 5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of
uplands for irrigation of paddy, land consolidation on 3,200 ha, and irriga-
tion of 1,050 ha of uplands. The main contract for the estuary dam construc-
tion, awarded in December 1977, is complete. Other parts of the project have
fallen behind due to a shortage of local budget. The Bank and the Government
recently agreed that loan disbursements would be limited to the ten subproj-
ects under implementation and scheduled for completion in 1984.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and drainage improvements for
10,800 ha, including 5,800 ha of land consolidation and 1,800 ha of land use
/L These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13 pages
conversion from upland to paddy. The project has been divided into seven
subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract. Insufficient
budgetary allocations have delayed the project from its start in 1978, but
the Government has now approved a funding program which will allow completion
of five subprojects by 1984 and Bank disbursements will be limited to these
subprojects. An extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 36 minor irrigation subprojects, con-
struction or improvement of 2,500 km of river levees or bank protection,
contruction or improvement of water systems for 7,400 villages, and telephone
line installation to provide new service for 2,700 villages and 76,000 addi-
tional lines to other villages. The river levee bank construction, rural
telephones and the water supply components are complete. The minor irriga-
tion component is scheduled for completion by the end of 1983, about one
year behind schedule.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project provides funds to the Agriculture and Fishery Develop-
ment Corporation (AFDC) for medium- and long-term loans to the private
sector for the construction and equipping of agroprocessing facilities, and
for technical assistance to AFDC. The project has been progressing satis-
factorily with lending being directed increasingly towards ensuring that the
project would finance a wide range of processing facilities and that medium
and small size processors would be the main recipients of the total project
funds.
Loan No. 1974    Third Agricultural Credit Project;  $50 Million Loan of
May 13, 1981; Effective Date: August 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project would help increase of (a) production of high-value
fruits and vegetables; (b) farm productivity; and (c) off-season employment.
Over the four-year period, the project would provide credit nationwide for
financing a wide range of activities, notably: greenhouses, sprinkler
irrigation, on-farm storage, chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-scale
agro-processing and backyard livestock. Project implementation is proceeding
rapidly with disbursements ahead of schedule.



- 31 -
ANNEX Il
Page 5 of 13 pages
Loan No. 2111    Agricultural Wholesale Marketing Project; $50.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: August 6, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project provides for construction and equipping of an agricul-
tural wholesale market at Garagdong in Seoul, the establishment of an author-
ity to run the market, training for wholesale and market officials and
carrying out a study of Korea's agricultural marketing system and related
public policies. The main civil works contract for construction of the
market has been awarded and construction is underway.
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, and generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually for
Korea's power system. The principal features of the project are a 90 m high
concrete dam and a 450 MW power plant on the South Han River, a reregulating
dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam, relocation of roads and a rail-
way, and implementation of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families
affected by the project. The contract for the main dam and power plant was
awarded in December 1979 and construction is proceeding on schedule. The
major accomplishments to date are completion of the excavation of the slide
zone on the right bank and diversion of the river through the left bank
tunnels. Detailed planning is underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB's subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily and loan disbursement is nearly complete.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC. In order to support relatively
labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million was earmarked for
financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding
$750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost
per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to finance small- and
medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to $10.0 million of the
proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea Development Leasing
Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to KDFC, by way of
subloans. Progress is good and disbursement is nearly complete.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project comprises two components: (a) the development of Korea
Institute of Electronic Technology (KIET) which, through its service, devel-
opment and production activities, would stimulate and support the Korean
electronics industry's drive into new areas; and (b) the establishment of a
program to promote and finance RD&E carried out by KIET for the electronics
industry. Project implementation was about 18 months behind schedule due to
delays in procurement and shortage of local funds. However, the semiconduc-
tor facility, which is the main physical component of the project, is opera-
tional. KIET's work program has been prepared with input from industry.
The training and expert invitation program has been implemented satisfac-
torily. Some shortage of counterpart funds which had affected the project
and proposed institutional changes which had given rise to concern have been
addressed by the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. About 98% of
the loan has been committed and disbursement is nearly complete.



- 33 -                  ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two-year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government's policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure. Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB's project appraisal
capabilities. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1932    Eighth Korea Long-Term Credit Bank Project; $90.0 Million
Loan of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KLTCB over the next two years. In
order to encourage increased mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial
borrowings by KLTCB, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature,
which would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The
project incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which
would be implemented by the Government as a part of a comprehensive reform
of the financial system of Korea. The project is progressing well. Both
commitments and disbursements are on schedule.
Loan No. 1933    Fourth Korea Development Bank Project; $100 Million Loan
of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB over the next two years. In
order to encourage a reduction in KDB's reliance on long-term official
borrowings, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature, which
would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The project
incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which would be
implemented by the Government, as a part of a comprehensive reform of the
financial system of Korea. The project is progressing well. Disbursements
are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 2004    Fourth Korea Small and Medium Industry Bank Loan;
$60.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1981; Effective Date:
September 1, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by SMIB over the next two years.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by
SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically produced



- 34-                 ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13 pages
capital goods (estimated at 60%). The loan assists SMIB in its efforts to
support the Government's policy of increasing the productivity of Korea's
small- and medium-scale industrial sector which plays a vital role in
providing employment opportunities and in assisting the country's export
effort. It also initiates an attempt to improve and expand extension
services for the SMI sector. Commitments and disbursement are slightly
behind appraisal estimates; however, SMIB expects full commitment and
disbursement of the loan ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 2112    Technology Development Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
April 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 10, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project would help foster the technological development of
Korean industry by supporting the development of the Korea Technology Devel-
opment Corporation (KTDC). Specifically, the loan will finance $1.0 million
worth of technical assistance and training of KTDC staff and provide a $49.0
million line of credit to finance industry RD&E. Subprojects are expected
to be approved by KTDC up to end-1984. The project is making excellent
operational progress. As of June 15, 1982, the Bank had approved subloans
of $5.6 million equivalent for 18 subprojects.
Loan No. 2144    Citizens National Bank II; $30.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1982; Effective Date: August 24, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project would assist CNB to move toward term transformation,
upgrade CNB's term lending capability at the branch level and encourage CNB
to diversify its sources of foreign currency. In line with the Bank's con-
tinued support of small-scale industries (SSI), at least $15.0 million of
the loan is earmarked for financing smaller SSIs employing no more than 50
workers. In addition, at least $15.0 million of the Bank loan proceeds is
earmarked for projects outside the city limits of Seoul. The loan became
effective on August 24, 1982.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project would provide for the construction, furnishing and
equipping of 91 Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning Centers in rural
areas; 11 Family Planning Clinics in low-income urban areas, expanded infor-
mation, education and communication production and training facilities, and
upgraded health centers; providing and equipping 13 mobile family planning
units; provision of about 75 vehicles, and training and information, educa-
tion and communication equipment; production and distribution of information,
education and communication materials; fellowships; research and evaluation;
and information, education and administrative staff. Training of multipur-
pose midwives is progressing satisfactorily and 400 staff have been trained



- 35 -                 ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13 pages
to date and training of a further 1,120 multipurpose workers is being under-
taken. Construction of 14 maternal and child health family planning centers
are in the final stages of completion. Euqipment procurement for these
centers has progressed satisfactorily.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date:  October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany. After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule. All
civil works contracts have been awarded. All eight VTIs and the central
VTI are in full operation and performance is satisfactory. All equipment
has been awarded. All experts are in post and the fellowship program has
been completed.  Management performance has also improved.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Banks first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is behind schedule but the anticipated 1980-84 target will be
reached as planned.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is a multicomponent regional development project con-
sisting of: housing - 3,950 residential plots in Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu;
industrial estates - 200 ha of serviced industrial land in Gwangju and Mogpo;
water supply - improvements to water supply systems in Mogpo, Yeosu and
Narodo; transportation - two bridges to link Dolsan and Jindo islands with
the mainland, improvements to a 1.9 km commercial road in Yeosu and ferry



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13 pages
service between Narodo and the mainland; fisheries - an aquaculture develop-
ment program and a shrimp storage facility at Imjado; and technical assist-
ance. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects. Contracts
have been awarded on 13 subprojects while 2 subprojects have been cancelled.
Four subprojects have been completed on schedule and are being transferred
to the cities and county concerned. Land acquisition has been essentially
completed and construction is well underway. Only limited construction was
possible on both Jindo and Dolsan Bridges during 1981 because of insufficient
Government budget allocations; however, construction is now proceeding as
originally programmed. A continuous budget has been established for Central
Government funded subprojects whereby annual allocations have been determined
for the life of the project.
Loan No. 1980    National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$90.0 Million Loan of May 13, 1981; Effective Date:
August 11, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The objective of the project is to provide affordable housing for
low-income families and serviced land for middle-income families in 10
medium-sized cities. The four Phase I sites would provide 4,100 dwellings
(low income) and 1,200 serviced lots for middle-income houses. The six
Phase II sites would provide more than 6,000 housing lots including about
4,400 low-income dwellings.  Overall project progress is satisfactory.
Contract work on nine of the original ten sites have been completed. The
tenth site has been ommitted due to the uncertainty of marketability of the
site. Further savings due to lower than estimated bids for land preparation
and timely implementation have been achieved. KLDC proposed to utilize
these savings to finance development of three supplementary sites (Seoul
Goduck, Busan Manduck and Gwangju Yeomgju). This has been agreed after
review of feasibility studies, and contracts awarded. A fourth supplemen-
tary site is under consideration for financing out of cost savings, subject
to mutual agreement by KLDC and KNHS and agreement on use and pricing of
low-income land.
Loan No. 2072    First Water Supply Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
December 22, 1981; Effective Date: April 1, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The principal objective of the project is to improve access to safe
water supplies to the populations of the municipalities of Daegu and Gwangju
and for the Masan Region serving jointly the cities of Masan, Changwon and
Jinhae. The project would also support the Government's efforts to improve
the organization and coordination of the sector as well as to increase
capability of institutions: at the national level where the Water Resources
Bureau of MOC would receive assistance and training in project planning and
implementation; at the regional level where three cities under this project
would jointly build and manage source works for more efficient water



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13 pages
utilization; and at the local level where individual city water bureaus would
receive technical assistance to improve their financial and management
capabilities. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project provides mainly for continuation of the extenion of
the Port of Busan started under the First Ports Project with special emphasis
in container handling facilities.  The project comprises:  (a) a 700 m exten-
sion of the container terminal including stacking areas, dredging, access
road, container freight station and equipment and ancillary works and equip-
ment; (b) rehabilitation of 4 existing general cargo handling berths; and (c)
acquisition of two tugboats. The institutional component of the projects
provides for technical assistance and training to improve KMPA's capability
in port planning and operations and managerial and accounting procedures.
The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the proposed third ports
project have recently been added to the project and Schedule I of the Loan
Agreement amended accordingly. Project completion is expected for June 1983.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the railroad Investment Plan 1977-81, and
includes (a) electrification and double tracking of Seoul City suburban lines;
(b) capacity increases in lines and stations; (c) way and structure renewals
and improvements; (d) procurement and repowering/remodeling of diesel loco-
motives and rolling stock; (e) modernization and construction of repair
facilities; (f) improving telecommunications and power supply facilities; and
(g) provision of staff housing, training equipment and advisory services.
The project is near completion.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13 pages
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction.  An estimated 80% of
the civil works were completed by end September 1982. Maintenance equipment
procurement is underway. The study reports of the Gun Road Development
Program and of the Provincial and Gun Road Maintenance Program have been
finalized and detailed engineering for Gun Roads have been completed. An
extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project is the 1980-81 part of the railroad investment plan,
1977-81, and includes (a) capacity increases in lines and stations; (b) way
and structure renewals and improvements; (c) procurement and repowering/
repair of locomotives and rolling stock; (d) modernization and construction
of repair facilities; (e) improvement of telecommunications and power
supply facilities; (f) implementation of management improvements; and (g)
overseas training. The loan also finances training in transport planning
and coordination and technical assistance for transport feasibility and
urban transport studies. After a slow start, the project is now progressing
well. The Management Technical Assistance contract is under way. One of
the Transport Studies is about to start and terms of reference for another is
being finalized.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1788    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides for (a) a thermal power station with two
500 MW coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; (b) coal
handling and storage facilities, fuel-oil tanks, ash system and storage
area; (c) a fuel unloading dock; (d) a pumping station to transport fresh
water to the station; (e) a 160 km of double circuit, 345 KV transmission
line and related terminal substations and (f) consulting services for
management and organization study of KECO. Execution of works is slightly
behind schedule. Completion date of the first unit is estimated to be
December 1983/January 1984. Management and organization study was completed
and reviewed by the Bank in January 1982. There were substational delays in
the preparation of bidding documents, but all contracts have now been placed.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13 pages
Structural Adjustment
Loan No. 2071    Structural Adjustment Loan; $250.0 Million Loan of
December 22, 1981; Effective Date:  March 4, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan will support the Government's comprehensive structural
adjustment program, the principal aim being to keep the balance of payments
manageable while restoring the growth momentum of the economy. To achieve
these medium-term objectives, specific actions will be taken (i) to save
imports (particularly energy-related imports); (ii) to promote exports and
improve industrial efficiency through consolidation of investment, further
opening of the economy and reducing government intervention; and (iii) to
strengthen domestic resource mobilization efforts. The foreign exchange
provided by the loan is being used to finance essential imports. Overall
progress has been satisfactory and the second and final tranche of $100.0
million was released on August 27, 1982.



- 40 -                             ANNEX III
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project              16 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project    Ministry of Home Affairs
with assistance of expat-
riate and local consultants
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project                    :  October 1981
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission             May 1982
(e)  Negotiations completed                  : November 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness              March/April 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) undertake to apply suitable road standards and paving type to the
roads improved under the project (para. 53);
(b) undertake a study on the integrated planning of the various road
systems (para. 53);
(c) undertake a study of road safety (para. 53);
(d)  establish a Road Maintenance Section by April 30, 1983 and a Road
Management Division by June 30, 1985 (para. 55); and
(e) permit the introduction of unscheduled transport services in
certain pilot rural areas (para. 57).



CHINA                                             DEMOCRATIC PEOPLEES REPUBLIC OF KOREA                                           /
DEM. PEOPLE'S                                                              t          _  _
REP. 07 KOREA                                                           6     '    :     I           AV~~ 
- REPLUlBLIC           !'|U0
OF KOREA
WoAd Boo a a_f B6d *or,,   tof
tfarapoo_ to roUtEon rtrooltacOaORADIPAED
The~ ~ ~                                                                                                                          PROJEC  ROADS                                         Fiot trortot 6:oa  KOS
bdtrtea~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .har                                                                                                                    COUNt rODoMRVEETPORaorhooi     60K
,h.  h,-  .-h.
Oar-d-rorro, tOor- fr
jW - l  lh- 1-   - 1-  ITRANLSUDRE
arty torortoororarrpandoosame
OtoOatOo   obrrrdort
( \ ~       ~               ~               ~                              O    10   20   30   40   50                                     c jl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lj
S?0  Roo mIrt  076 ' -60.      Erg                                         Ohrrrgro    I    orrgare
OttO-roe    '4Kw         Z'8                                                                                                                                                         t6r4-
haorooaogo   SrRat  o                                                                                                                   O
NAINLRASPA VEDq,    I     I       at  rtd
------NATIONAL ROADSIUNPAVEOI
PROVINCIAL ROADSIPAVEDI
    ------ PROVINCIAL ROADSIUNPAVEDI
PROJECT ROADS                                         First Prolo- 769 KO
-      OUNSTRUCTION AND IMPROUEMENTS  ThUP~0~   23E
PThtOd Pojec 19403 KU
3-7                                              SoronO Projec 95400K
000                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COUNTY ROADS iMPROVEMENT PROURAR
MAINTENANCE ORUANIZATION IPILOTPROUINCESI
----t-    AI LWAYS
')  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
4   PO RTS
PROVINCIAL ROUNDARIES
Jscj4,                                                      -   -       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
O         2         40        60         D          0
-  I  95)                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                  01-
(At                                                                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LS  10  20  35  40  NO                   M



