Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4116-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
November 23, 1982
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Won (W)
US$1            =   W 745 (as of November 1982)
US$1.34         =   W 1,000
US$1 million   =   W 745 million
US$1,340        =   W 1 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =   3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)         0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2  =   2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)              =   2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)             2,204.6226 pounds (lbs)
1.1023 short tons (sh tons or 2,000 lbs)
0.9842 long tons (lg ton or 2,240 lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADT      -   Average Daily Traffic
BPR      -   Bureau of Public Roads
DBST     -   Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
EPB      -   Economic Planning Board
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
FFYP     -   Fifth Five Year Plan
GNP      -   Gross National Product
KHC      -   Korea Highway Corporation
KMPA     -   Korean Maritime and Ports Authority
KNR      -   Korean National Railroad
MOC      -   Ministry of Construction
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
MOHA     -   Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT      -   Ministry of Transport
VOC      -   Vehicle Operating Costs



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION .1.......................... .  I
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR .... . . . . . . . .  .. .                                   1
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting .              . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  The Transport System  ...   . . . . . . . .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .   a    2
C.  Transport Objectives and Issues in the 1980s .            . . . . . .    4
II.  HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . . . .    .    7
A.  The Network ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
B.  Traffic and Road Transport Industry . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
C. Road Safety.                                                            10
D   Highway Administration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
E.  Highway Planning and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
F. Design and Construction .14
G   Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
H.  Previous Bank Financed Highway Projects  . . . . . . . . . .   16
III.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
A.  Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
B.  Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
C.  Cost Estimates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
D.  Financing . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
E.  Implementation and Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
F. Auditing   ..25
G.  Progress Reporting and Monitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
H.  Environment and Urban Aspects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
I. Disbursements    ..26
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....  .          .  .  .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
A.  Improvement of County Roads ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
B.  Provincial and County Roads Maintenance Program .  . . . . .   28
C.  Risks and Sensitivity Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
This Report is based on findings of a Bank mission which visited Korea in
June 1982, comprising Messrs. B. P. Kennedy (Engineer) and A. F. Ballereau
(Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
TABLES
1.1   Growth Trend of Domestic Passenger Traffic (1961-81)
1.2   Growth Trend of Domestic Freight Traffic (1961-81)
1.3   Forecast for Domestic Passenger Transport (1980-86)
1.4   Forecast for Domestic Freight Transport (1980-86)
1.5   Comparison of Investment Plans (1977-81 and 1982-86)
2.1   Public Roads Network (1962-81)
2.2   Registered Motor Vehicles (1962-80)
2.3   Korean Motor Vehicles Production (1962-80)
2.4   Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption (1962-80)
2.5   Commercial Licensing of Road Transport Companies (1974-80)
2.6   Road Authorities and Agencies
2.7   Fifth Five Year Plan:  Expenditures for Roads (1982-86)
2.8   Fourth Five Year Plan:  Expenditures for Roads (1977-81)
2.9   Expenditures on Roads (1962-81)
2.10  Expenditures on Roads (1981)
2.11  Road User Charges (1972-81)
2.12  Pump Price of Major Petroleum Products in Korea (1980-82)
3.1   County (Gun) Road Improvement Program
3.2   County (Gun) Road Design Standards
3.3   Comprehensive Maintenance Program-Physical Output (1983-87)
3.4   Schedule of Maintenance Expenditures - All Provinces (1983-87)
3.5   Maintenance Program: Physical Output for Pilot Provinces (1983-87)
3.6   Maintenance Program: Expenditures for Pilot Provinces (1983-87)
3.7   Equipment for Maintenance Program and Costs
3.8   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
4.1   Distribution of County Roads Improvement Works by Traffic Range
and by Province (1981 and 1985)
4.2   County Roads Improvement Works Traffic Composition and Growth Rates
(1985-2005)
4.3   Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings for Typical Terrains
and Improvement Standards
4.4   County Roads Improvement Program: Economic Evaluation
4.5   Provincial and County Roads Maintenance Program:  Potential Savings in
VO Cs
4.6   Provincial and County Roads Maintenance Program:  Economic Evaluation
(1983-92)



-3-
CHARTS
1. Ministry of Construction Organization (World Bank - 19013)
2.  Korea Highway Corporation:  Organization (World Bank - 19016)
3. Bureau of Public Roads: Organization (World Bank - 19015)
4. Ministry of Home Affairs: Organization (World Bank - 24249)
5. Ministry of Home Affairs: Organization for Road Management
(World Bank - 24250)
6. Road Organization at Provincial Level (World Bank - 24251)
7.  A Typical County (Gun):  Organization (World Bank - 24252)
ANNEXES
1. Project Implementation Schedule
2. Project Monitoring Indices
3. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP Provincial and Country Road Project (IBRD - 16730)






-3-
CHARTS
1. Ministry of Construction Organization (World Bank - 19013)
2.  Korea Highway Corporation:  Organization (World Bank - 19016)
3.  Bureau of Public Roads:  Organization (World Bank - 19015)
4. Ministry of Home Affairs: Organization (World Bank - 24249)
5. Ministry of Home Affairs: Organization for Road Management
(World Bank - 24250)
6. Road Organization at Provincial Level (World Bank - 24251)
7. A Typical County (Gun): Organization (World Bank - 24252)
ANNEXES
1. Project Implementation Schedule
2. Project Monitoring Indices
3. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP Provincial and Country Road Project (IBRD - 16730)






INTRODUCTION
The Government of Korea has requested Bank Group assistance in the
financing of a program to improve some 1,000 km of county (gun) or tertiary
network roads throughout the country and to establish and equip appropriate
maintenance organizations for the provincial and county road networks. Bank
Group support for the development of Korea's roads has been extended through
four previous projects, starting with a First Highway Project (Loan 769-KO)
in 1971. The proposed project would, however, be the first to address the
problems of the tertiary road network, which is of special relevance to
Korea's agricultural and rural development efforts.  The development, con-
struction and maintenance of these roads is a responsibility of the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MOHA). An important institutional objective of the proposed
project would be to strengthen MOHA's capability to manage the tertiary road
development and to maintain provincial and county roads.
The project was prepared by MOHA with assistance from consultants
(BCEOM of France and local consultants) whose work was financed under the
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1640-KO). Preappraisal missions visited Korea
in October 1981 and February 1982 and this report is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. B.P. Kennedy (Engineer) and
A.F. Ballereau (Economist) which visited Korea in June 1982; the Report also
incorporates some of the findings of a transport sector survey which com-
pleted its field work at the same time.
T. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01      The Republic of Korea has a land area of 98,500 sq km.  About 70%
of the land area is mountainous and agriculture is confined to about 22,600
sq km, or 23% of the total area, mainly in the river valleys, lower hillsides
and coastal plains. The climate is seasonal with very cold dry winters and
hot humid summers.  Annual rainfall averages 800 mm to 1,400 mm with about
60% falling between June and September. The land mass is drained by a well-
developed river system with seasonal variations in flow which give rise to
frequent flooding. The rugged terrain, river system and severe winter
climate make the construction of transport facilities, particularly roads,
difficult and costly.
1.02      The population is presently estimated at 38.2 million and growing
at an annual rate of 1.9%. Population density is estimated at 382 per sq km
of total area or 1,670 per sq km of agricultural land. Urban population is
estimated to be growing at an annual rate of 4.9% and has increased from
40.7% of the total in 1970 to 54.8% in 1982.  The increasing urban population
has created significant transport demand in the areas around the cities and
industrial centers and particularly in the Seoul greater metropolitan area.



1.03      Korea-s export-led industrialization has been among the most
successful examples of economic development in recent history. During
1962-78, real GNP grew by 10% p.a. and per capita income more than tripled
in real terms. Coupled with industrialization and urbanization, major
developments and changes in the transportation sector complemented and
supported the transformation of Korea's economy. Passenger traffic tripled
between 1964 and 1971 and tripled again by 1981; freight increased nine
times and five times respectively during the same periods.
B. The Transport System
1.04      Throughout much of the past 20 years, the transport system has been
strained by the demands of rapid growth and it has required massive public
sector investments in transport infrastructure. The Government has been
allocating regularly, since the beginning of the Second Plan in 1967, about
one quarter of its total capital expenditure to expand and modernize trans-
port infrastructure. Investments have been concentrated on the Seoul-Busan
axis where most industrial development is taking place and other corridors
serving the northeastern and southeastern parts of Korea.
1.05      Substantial changes in the modal distribution of traffic are
illustrated by traffic statistics for the 1961 to 1981 period (Tables 1.1 and
1.2). Freight traffic moving by rail, although showing growth in absolute
terms, fell from 88% of total ton-km to 46%, while the road and coastal
shipping shares increased from 8% to 21% and from 3% to 32%, respectively.
For passenger traffic, the rail share of total passenger-km fell from 53% to
25% over the same period, while the road share increased from 45% to 73%.
These changes reflect both the economic advantages of the various modes and
the different growth rates experienced between industries served, as rail and
coastal shipping increasingly were concentrated on long distances and bulk
commodities, while road transport handled the short distance and more general
cargo. In addition, rapidly expanding personal consumption generated large
increases in personal travel, further fueled by changes in consumption
patterns. Road transport has been the main beneficiary of these increases.
1.06      The Government of Korea's (GOK) basic objective over the past has
been to increase the capacity of the system in line with projected traffic
growth and to avoid major bottlenecks. This objective has been largely
achieved. The present system is reasonably balanced and there is no
substantial uneconomic allocation of traffic among the various modes.
Investment in transportation have been linked to broader concerns in Korea's
spatial and economic planning. For example, considerable efforts have been
made to develop new industrial complexes in coastal areas, to take advantage
of KoreaTs natural potentials in harbors and to exploit low-cost coastal
shipping while avoiding excessive congestion on road and rail. Similarly,
in its efforts to ensure that appropriate development priorities were
reflected in the allocation of scarce transportation means among the
competing claims, the Government has maintained fairly tight regulations in
the sector, involving strict licensing of operators in road transport and
shipping, and administered pricing for all transport activities. Korea's



vehicle fleet has been kept small due to a policy of high taxation of cars
and high prices for gasoline.
1.07      Large investments in transportation infrastructure have been com-
plemented by a considerable effort to improve the efficiency of the transpor-
tation system, through the establishment and strengthening of institutions to
plan, construct, maintain and operate the facilities and services. In the
public sector, institutions such as the Korean National Railroad (KNR), the
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) in the Ministry of Construction (MOC), the Korean
Highway Corporation (KHC), the Korean Maritime and Port Authority (KMPA) have
been strengthened or established in many instances with increasing financial
and managerial responsibility as semi-autonomous public corporations. In the
private sector, a highly efficient contractor system has evolved for civil
works which reflects both the insistence on competitive bidding in the award
of contracts as a matter of policy, and the large volume of construction work
that has been carried out in Korea during the past 20 years. There are now
some 500 firms capable of handling a broad range of public works.
Furthermore, with Government encouragement, the major construction firms
have successfully expanded their construction activities overseas; in 1981,
Korean contractors won overseas contracts valued at US$13.6 billion.
1.08      The Bank has played an active role in advising and assisting the
Korean authorities in pursuing their transport objectives. Since 1962, the
Bank Group has assisted the KNR through seven railway projets amounting to
US$434 million. The first five projects have been satisfactorily completed
and a sixth is almost fully disbursed. Cost comparisons indicate that rail
transport is still the most economic means of moving bulk cargo over medium
and long distances, and for passenger traffic over long distances. Bank-
supported investments have concentrated on improved capacity and service
relating to these functions. KNR's efficiency is among the highest of any
rail system in the world in 1981, with staff productivity per employee of
800,000 measured in terms of traffic units (passenger-km plus net ton-km).
The Bank has also maintained an active dialogue on the railway's financial
situation, investment plans, level and structure of tariffs. After some
deterioration in the 1970s, Government agreed to implement a financial recov-
ery plan for KNR as part of the seventh (ongoing) railway project. Discus-
sions of a revised plan, following the severe downturn of the economy in the
early 1980s, are continuing. Meanwhile, a coal and cement distribution
project which was recently appraised would strengthen the capacity of the
railways, ports and inland terminals to cope with the expected increase in
transport of these commodities, resulting partly from large coal imports
substituting for oil.
1.09      Substantial assistance has also been extended for port development.
In part related to Korea's export drive, freight traffic through the ports
has increased from about 13 million tons in 1966 to over 120 million tons
in 1981. This large increase resulted in serious port capacity problems,
particularly at Busan, the biggest port, which handles 30% of the country s



- 4 -
external trade and is chronically congested. Containerization was intro-
duced in Busan with the assistance of the Bank under two port projects
totalling US$147 million; the Saudi Fund for Development participated with
the Bank in the financing of the first Busan Pbrt Project. A third ports
project, to further improve container handling capacity, is now under
consideration, and would be in addition to port works under the coal and
cement distribution project mentioned above.
1.10      The four previous Bank-financed highway projects have had a major
impact in assisting Government with the improvement and expansion of the
national and provincial road networks and with institution building in the
MOC. Significant policy changes, relating to the highway subsector, which
were effected through the highway projects include the adoption of more appro-
priate road standards, revisions of regulations governing vehicle weights
and dimensions, and a modified Government policy on toll roads.  The MOC's
organization to maintain the national road network was established and streng-
thened through the provision of technical assistance and road maintenance
equipment. Korean consulting firms have benefitted through their association
with foreign consultants on the design of road projects. Results of the
three projects that have been completed are highly satisfactory. These are
discussed more fully in paras. 2.31 and 2.32.
C. Transport Objectives and Issues in the 1980s
1.11       The period of rapid and sustained growth in the Korean economy came
to an abrupt close in 1979, following the second major oil price increase, the
subsequent worsening of the international environment, and the political
transition. Near stagnation, accompanied by severe inflation and balance of
payments problems were experienced between 1979 and 1981.  A modest recovery
is now in progress, with benefits from Government's determined efforts to
master inflation (which is expected to decline from 29% in 1980 and 12% in
1981 to about 7% this year), plus a remarkable improvement in the balance of
trade. Nevertheless, the medium-term prospects for a resumption of Korea's
former rapid progress remain uncertain. The impact of these developments
on the transportation sector is two-fold. On one side, the timing of
investments needed to sustain further improvements in transport capacity and
quality of service will be influenced by growth-induced traffic expansion.
On the other side, the capacity of the public sector to finance the
necessary upgrading and expansion of infrastructure and facilities in
transportation may be sharply constrained by budgetary limitations.  For the
medium term, the Fifth Five Year Plan (FFYP) projects a GNP growth rate of
7.5% p.a. over the period 1982-86, with a corresponding increase in
transport demand estimated at about 47 billion passenger-km and 10 billion
ton-km, respectively 50% and 30% above fourth plan period outcomes (Tables
103 and 1.4).  Investment in transportation (public and private) is expected
to increase by about 45% and remain at close to 14% of the total planned
outlay as in the Fourth Plan. mnis amounts to some US$16.3 billion,
calculated at 1980 prices and exchange rates.



- 5 -
However, investments in subways and aviation will absorb a larger fraction of
the total as will road vehicles and ships. Hence, real investment in the
railway system, road and port infrastructure would increase by less than 20%
above fourth plan outlays (Table 1.5).
1.12       Whether or not economy-wide growth, transport demand and invest-
ments conform to plan expectations, it seems clear that the period of most
rapid development in Korea's basic transport infrastructure is now over.  On
the other hand, the increasingly complex traffic patterns and higher traffic
densities, the growing requirements for maintenance of the expanded system,
and the need to conserve energy, will call for even greater efforts to
maximize efficiency of service and the use of scarce investment capital in
this capital-intensive sector. Policies relating to pricing and regulation of
transport plus improved planning in respect of system development, are crucial
in the now more demanding economic environment. The preliminary finding of
the Bank's recent sector survey suggests that there is scope for improvement
in several areas.
1.13       Despite considerable efforts, spatial planning of the transporta-
tion system is still hindered by generally inadequate interagency coordina-
tion, a comparatively limited expertise in planning and economic appraisal
techniques, and in the capacity to undertake appropriate longer-term pre-
investment studies. World Bank efforts to provide support and encouragement
for these activities has met with mixed success.  In 1970, the covernment set
up a Transport Planning Office in the Ministry of Transport (MOT) on the
recommendation of a study financed under a Transport Technical Assistance
Credit.  The Government tried further, in 1975, to improve transport
coordination via a Transport Coordination Committee (TCC) with representation
from the various ministries most directly concerned. The TCC, however, has
not, in practice, been able to carry out its responsibilities for the
coordination of transport sector investment very satisfactorily.  More
effective mechanisms are yet to be worked out. Meanwhile, the Budget Bureau,
located in the Economic Planning Board (EPB), exercises considerable influence
on year-to-year transport investment decisions through its budgetary control
powers.  Currently, a Bureau of Project Evaluation, established in 1976 in
EPB, is showing interest in transport planning, spurred by the necessity to
cut back the public sector investments program.  However, its responsibilities
are at present limited to reviewing individual major investment proposals
submitted by executing agencies on a piecemeal basis. The Bureau's capability
in project analysis is being strengthened under the Bank's 1981 Structural
Adjustment Loan.
1.14       The Bank has also, through various projects, provided active
support and finance for technical assistance for a range of feasibility and
planning studies relating to national transport development, urban
transportation needs, inter-modal alternatives along major traffic axes (such
as the Seoul-Busan corridor) in addition to more conventional engineering
design work for proposed projects. Here, too, the record of accomplishment is
patchy, with experience tending to show a pattern of relatively slow progress,
reflecting in part the difficulties of sectoral planning and transport
coordination in the Korean context.



1.15        Pricing policy and the regulatory framework have been a feature
of Bank-Government dialogue for many years.  In the 1970s, emphasis was
given to supporting Government's efforts to establish agencies such as KNR,
and KMPA on a sound financial basis, with investment planning linked to
appropriate tariffs and charges in regard to rail transport and ports.  The
role of the Bank has been quite effective in this regard, although the
priority given to reducing inflation in the past two years has led to some
reluctance to raise tariffs - for example in rail transportation - in line
with changes in costs. The Bank has also assisted Covernment in the review
of transport and traffic regulation, notably in regard to licensing of
common carriers, road vehicle taxation, axleloading and similar issues
relating to road transportation (see discussion in paras. 2.07 through 2.09
below).
1.16        It is expected that the Bank's policy dialogue would be streng-
thened in future years through the increasing emphasis being given to a
sector and subsector approach in transport lending in Korea. The roads
project now proposed will deepen and broaden our involvement in the road
subsector by extending assistance, for the first time, to the Ministry of
Home Affairs (MOHA) which deals with the maintenance of provincial roads and
the maintenance and improvement of county roads. This new involvement
will also provide the Bank with an opportunity to improve coordination of
road planning between MOC and MOHA, and will strengthen the basis for a
possible highway subsector loan.  Similarly, the recently completed ports
study examined broadly which ports should be developed to handle the
nation's traffic through the next decade and may lead to a port subsector
loan. For railways, the Bank has traditionally made sector type loans,
financing time slices of KNR's investment plans with the sixth and seventh
railway projects covering respectively 1978/79 and 1980/81 investments.
1.17        Besides these subsector operations, we are assisting the Govern-
ment in developing multimodal projects. The first is the proposed coal and
cement distribution project, involving railways and ports. It will be
followed by projects directed toward increasing the capacity of the system
in certain high priority areas and corridors rather than expanding the
system as a whole. The Bank will assist in developing an integrated modal
approach to meet the very high transport demand near main urban areas where
a dense network of facilities is needed. The complementarity of the
various modes will be promoted by developing interconnecting terminals so as
to facilitate the use of the most economical and efficient transport system.
To this effect, three separate multimodal transport studies have been
discussed with Government: one concerning the Seoul-Busan transport
corridor and the feasibility of rail capacity increase between Seoul and
Daejon is about to start, the second concerning the Seoul Metropolitan
region covering the Gyeonggi province is to follow in CY84 and the third
covering the southeast coastal region from Suncheon to Fbhang where most
heavy industries are concentrated will follow later.



- 7 -
1.18       Bank transport projects also contain specific components to promote
the local transport consulting industry. A Korean consultant was responsible
for both a coal and cement distribution study and a national comprehensive
transport study. Korean consultants are also closely associated and assuming
an increasing share of the work and responsibilities with studies under the
Bank's railroad and port projects. The development of a competent consulting
industry in the transport sector is likely to lead to significant import
substitution and export of such services.
II. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01       The public road network totals about 87,000 km comprising 13,400 km
of national roads, 9,700 km of provincial roads, 11,500 km of county roads and
52,400 km of village access roads (see Table 2.1). In addition, there are
15,500 km of city roads, mostly streets. The national highways include 1,245
km of toll expressways of which 492 km are four-lane divided and 753 km are
two lane. The system of classification of roads is flexible enough to
facilitate transfers from county to provincial and from provincial to national
roads whenever traffic volumes warrant such transfer. Road density at 0.9
km/sq km is generally sufficient to serve transport needs, particularly as
about 70% of the total land areas is raountainous, but most of the road network
still needs improvement. Despite heavy investments in road improvements since
1967 only 56% of the national roads, 8% of the provincial roads, and 5% of the
county roads are paved and a high level of investment will continue to be
required to ensure an adequate level of service for growing traffic volume.
The poor state of the county road network has hampered the development of
agriculture and restricted personal mobility. The proposed project includes a
first phase improvement program for these roads (paras. 3.05 and 3.06). It
also includes assistance to Government to set up an effective organization for
the maintenance of provincial and county roads (para. 3.07).
B. Traffic and Road Transport Industry
Motor Vehicles
2.02       The motor vehicle fleet in Korea is still small when compared
with other countries of similar and even lower income levels. In 1980, the
528,000 four wheel road vehicles registered in Korea amount to only 13.9 per
1,000 persons (Table 2.2). The ratios are 20.0 in Thailand, 20.9 in the
Philippines, 48.2 in Malaysia, although Korea has a higher per capita
income. There are many reasons why Korea's vehicle fleet is small: the
high taxation of private cars, the high vehicle operating costs, the
restrictive licensing of commercial vehicles (para. 2.07), the high cost of
locally manufactured vehicles, and the relatively under-developed road
network. Only 20 years ago, Korea had less than 1,000 km of paved roads.



2 .03       The vehicle fleet has, however, been growing rapidly. Excluding
motorcycles, growth averaged 15% p.a. during the First Plan (1962-66), and
20% p.a. during the Second Plan (1967-71). Growth slowd down during the
early years of the Third Plan due to the economic stabilization policy in
1971/72 and the oil crisis in 1973/74. Since 1975, however, the growth has
accelerated again and averaged 22% p.a. from 1977 to 1980.  Of all four
wheel vehicles, private cars increased the fastest, doubling since 1977.
The actual number is still small but likely to increase rapidly. The
situation may be compared to that of Japan which had only 200,000 cars or
2.8 per 1,000 persons in 1958 and saw its car population explode within 20
years to about 25 million in 1980 or almost 217 per 1,000 inhabitants. The
future situation in Korea will depend upon the willingnes or ability of the
Government to keep the current high level of taxation in line with
increasing incomes. However, the combined pressure of the public and of the
car manufacturers may force Government to let the taxation of private cars
erode in relation to incomes.
2.04        Local production of motor vehicles has increased rapidly over the
last decade from about 7,000 four wheel vehicles in 1967 to a maximum of
200,000 in 1979. However it dropped to 120,000 in 1980 (Table 2.3). This
growth was fostered by restrictive import licensing and high customs duties.
Nearly all motor vehicles are now locally manufactured or assembled under
license from the US, Japanese and Italian manufacturers and contain nearly
all locally manufactured parts. Exports are presently not very significant.
Forecasts by EPB indicate that production would overtake present capacity of
225,00 vehicles per year in 1983 and reach 625,000 vehicles by 1986, with
exports accounting for 20% of production.  Accordingly, large investments
are now being considered to expand and retool existing automobile plants.
Traffic
2.05        Road transport has grown rapidly over the last 15 years, not only
in absolute terms but also in relation to other modes, particularly
railways. About 22% of freight traffic in tons-kms is now carried on
highways compared to only 8% in 1961.  Road freight traffic grew twice as
fast as all freight traffic, averaging 45% p.a. in 1967-71 and 13% p.a. in
1972-76. However, it registered a 4.2% actual decrease in 1977-81.
Nevertheless, the share of freight traffic by road is expected to continue
increasing in the long-term although probably more gradually. Passenger
traffic on highways also grew rapidly, at 14.0% p.a. in passenger-km in
1967-71, 13.6% in 1972-76 and 9.5% in 1977-81, and in 1981 it amounted to
over two thirds of the total with one third going by rail , a complete
reversal of the situation in 1961. This trend is expected to continue as
the railways concentrate more on their long distance express services.
2.06        Traffic counts on the national highways have been made since 1965
by MOC, assisted by the provincial authorities and are now carried out twice
a year. Their reliability has improved, and they are now used in planning
highway improvements. In accordance with the Loan Agreement for the Second



- 9 -
Highway Project (Loan 956-KO), MOC began to count, record and analyze
traffic data on the provincial road network in 1973 and by 1981, there were
regular counts on the provincial roads, covering most of the network.
Traffic counts on the county roads have only recently been started by MORA
with assistance from consultants. However, under the proposed project, the
planning of county road development will be improved and a regular traffic
counting system will be introduced. The traffic data available show that
annual growth rates of traffic volumes were high during the First and Second
Plans (1962-71), but fell off in the Third Plan (1972-76). Rapid growth of
traffic resumed in 1976 and peaked in 1979 but decreased again in 1980.
Gasoline consumption in 1975 was one-third lower than in 1973 following the
oil crisis. Rapid growth of fuel consumption resumed in 1976 and peaked in
1979 (Table 2.4).
Road Transport Industry Regulation
2.07        Commercial vehicle licensing has been rather restrictive in
Korea. Restrictions included: (a) issuing licenses only to enterprises
having a minimum of 20 vehicles in cities or 10 in rural counties; (b)
imposing quotas on total numbers of vehicles in each province as well as
service areas or routes; /1 and (c) regulating rates and fares for freight
and passenger traffic. In line with the Loan Agreement for the Second
Highway Project, (Loan 956-KO) the Government has partially relaxed the
restrictions above. The minimum number of vehicles necessary to obtain a
license was lowered at the county level from 10 to 5 vehicles. Also the
minimum vehicle requirements can be waived where deemed necessary, in the
light of transport demand and for particular areas. The minimum vehicle
requirements were removed for pick-up truck services, and the operation by
owner-operators of taxis and "area trucks was allowed. A total of 978
trucking companies now operate in Korea; 943 under "area" licenses and 32
under "route" licenses. There are 650 bus companies operating almost 30,000
buses, about 50% in urban areas (Table 2.5). Regulations concerning fares
and minimum fleet requirements on buses remain virtually unchanged, the
reason given by Government is that present regulations are necessary to
ensure regular service and safety.
2.08        The relaxation of regulation, however, has not gone far enough.
This is evidenced by the low growth of the common carrier fleet, which
accounted in 1980 for only 53,000 trucks versus 165,000 in the private
trucking fleet while in 1967 with 15,000 trucks, it was three times larger.
A similar evolution is noticeable also for buses which are operated more and
more by private enterprises, schools, and farmers cooperatives. Since
transport users needs are not fully served by commercial operators (in spite
of subsidies offered by MOT in remote rural areas) private entities have more
and more started to operate their own trucks and buses. MOT is currently
/1 An "area" license authorizes service within a limited area generally
the Province, and a "route" license authorizes service along a given
route between points A and B.



- 10 -
reviewing the licensing system.  Unfortunately, indications are that the
Government may not opt for further relaxation of existing regulation. The
Bank will continue to review this issue in its sector dialogue with the
Government.  However, the Government is at present implementing a subsidized
plan to improve public bus services in the remote rural areas for villages of
over 100 households where their availability, frequency and quality are
deficient because of poor road conditions and remoteness which make operations
of standard buses unprofitable.  Furthermore, the Government will, under the
present project, promote the introduction of unscheduled transport services
for the rural population having no access to public road transportation. Such
unscheduled and shared transport services will be allowed first on an experi-
mental basis in a selected area, and will operate on demand as large taxis.
The all-weather vehicles such as modified pickups or mini-buses will be
designed to pick up and unload, easily and on demand, up to 15 passengers and
some freight.  The ownership of those unscheduled vehicles will not be
restricted by minimum fleet requirement and their modalities of operation,
including the routes and fares, will be determined by market rules. Such a
system has proven efficient and inexpensive in the rural areas of other Asian
countries. MOHA in consultation with MOT will handle the experiment and moni-
tor it. During negotiations, an implementation schedule outlining the major
critical steps needed to promote such services was agreed with the Government.
2.09      Regulations on vehicle weights and dimensions were dealt with under
previous Bank loans and are satisfactory.
C. Road Safety
2.10      Statistics available in the Ministry of Transport show that a
serious road accident problems exist in Korea. In 1975, when vehicle owner-
ship was at a rate of 57 per 10,000 of population there were some 190 fatal-
ities per 10,000 vehicles. In 1978, with a vehicle ownership rate of 107 per
10,000 population there were 129 fatalities per 10,000 vehicles. Although the
figures show some improvement since 1975, a comparison with other countries
reveals the seriousness of the problem. For instance, the normal accident
rate in a developing country, with a vehicle ownership rate of 280 per 10,000
population, is about 48 fatalities per 10,000 vehicles.
2.11      Road Traffic Safety in Korea is the joint responsibility of the
Traffic Police, the Transportation Safety Promotion Authority and the Road
Traffic Safety Association. The Traffic Police, under MOHA, enforce
some safety-related regulations such as speed limits, etc. and collect and
publish traffic accident statistics. The Transportation Safety Promotion
Authority was set up in December 1979 under the general control of the MOT
Responsibilities of the Authority cover all modes but are limited to the
inspection of motor vehicles, railroad cars, ships, aircraft, rails and
cables, from which activity some 90% of its revenues accrue. The Road Traffic
Safety Association was attached to the Traffic Police prior to 1980, when it
was reconstituted under the Road Traffic Law, as a civilian non-profit
corporation, reporting to MOHA. Its functions are to analyze traffic accident
data, do research and studies on road safety, train and educate drivers, and
prepare and organize propaganda related to road safety. The Association has
eleven provincial branch offices and one branch in Seoul and Busan. Its main



- 11 -
source of revenue comes from the drivers' licensing fees.  While the
Association is virtually autonomous, the President is appointed by MOHA and
its use of funds must be approved by MOHA. In agreement with MOHA, a road
safety expert will be made available under the project to assist the
Association in the review and analysis of traffic accident data and in the
preparation of a program for the reduction of traffic accidents in Korea
(para. 3.11).
D. Highway Administration
2.12        Table 2.6 shows the organizational and functional responsibilities
of national and local authorities for the various classes of the road
network. MOC (see Chart 1) excercises its responsibility for expressways
through a public corporation, the Korea Highway Corporation (KHC) and for
the national roads through its own Bureau of Public Roads (BPR). MOHA
is responsible for provincial and for county roads.
2.13        KHC established in February 1969 as a semi-autonomous self-account-
ing corporation under the general direction of the Minister of Construction,
is responsible for the construction and maintenance of 1,245 km of toll
expressways, and ancillary facilities. Planning is done by the BPR
(para. 2.19). The organization, shown on Chart 2, levies tolls, subject to
review by EPB and agreement by Government. KHC is technically fully
competent and the expressways are well maintained as it has ample resources
of staff, equipment and funds from the tolls collected.
2.14        The BPR in MOC (Chart 3) is satisfactory in carrying out its
functions in regard to national roads.  It has four divisions at headquarters
dealing with planning, construction, maintenance and administration, nine
Territorial Construction and Management Offices (TCMOS) and 19 National
Highway Maintenance Offices (NHMOS). The BPR organization has evolved with
the aid of technical assistance and training provided by the Bank under four
previous highways projects.
2.15        MOHA was not directly involved in highway management until
recently. A Road Development Section was set up in September 1979 to be
responsible for preparing and monitoring provincial and county road mainte-
nance and the development of the county road network. Presently, with only
four professional engineers, it is understaffed and does not have the man-
power resources to carry out its functions effectively, particularly in view
of the expanding county road development program and the major maintenance
programs to be implemented from 1983 onwards. The present organization of
MOHA is shown in Chart 4.  Chart 5 shows the proposed MOHA organization for
road management. A typical provincial road organization is shown in
Chart 6 and a typical organization for the 139 counties is shown in
Chart 7.
2.16        To handle the implementation of the proposed project and the
increased programs at county and provincial level, certain organizational
changes are needed at the center as well as staff increases at central,



- 12 -
provincial and county levels.  By June 1985, a Road Management Division will
be set up at central MOHA level, under the Bureaui of Local Finance. This
Division will absorb the existing Road Development Section and the Road
Management Section established in October 1982 and get one new section for
Road Maintenance, to be set tip by April 1983, to carry out the functions
detailed on Chart 5.  The present engineering staff will be increased to
eight and the administrative staff strengthened. No difficulties are
foreseen in recruiting staff but overseas training will be provided in the
project for the specialized skills of road development planning, financial
management and accounting, equipment management and transport economics.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on a time
schedule for the establishment of the Road Management Division and the new
Section.
2.17       At the provincial level, about 310 officials are presently
employed in the Road Divisions, Construction Offices and Heavy Equipment
Offices in the nine provinces. of this total, about 70% are engineers,
comprising 92 civil engineers in the Road Divisions, 96 civil engineers in
the Construction Offices and 29 mechanical engineers in the Heavy Equipment
Office. An increase of only 20% will suffice to meet the organizational
needs up to 1987 and thereafter. The additional staff will be trained by a
technical assistance team included under the proposed project through
seminars and on-the-job training.
2.18       At the county level, existing officials employed in the Civil
Engineering Section total about 413 for the 139 counties, varying from two
to seven officials per county. Practically all officials at county centers
are high school graduates and deal with all public works and not exclusively
roads. Assuming that about 50% of the existing officials will be available
exclusively for road works, an increase of about 100% to a total of 417
officials will be needed by 1987; no difficulties are foreseen for the
recruitment of the new staff.  On-the-job training of county staff will also
be done by the technical assistance team.
E. Highway Planning and Financing
2.19      Planning of the national road system, including expressways, is
done by the Planning Division of the BPR. The Division carries out annual
traffic surveys and maintains an inventory of national highways. BPR's
planning capacity was strengthened under the Third Highway Project (Loan No.
1203-KO), which financed a feasibility study and detailed engineering of
715 km of high priority national and provincial roads. MOHA has little
capacity at present for planning the development of the provincial and county
road networks. Under the project this capacity will be built up using the
screening and selection methodologies prepared by consultants financed under
the Fourth Highway Project (Loan No. 1640-KO) and by training selected MOHA
staff in road development planning and transport economics. Also under the
proposed project a mechanism will be set up to ensure in the future that the
various levels of the road system will be planned in a coordinated manner
(para. 3.11).



- 13 -
2 .20      In the past, MOF budget allocations to MORiA averaged about 11 .5% of
total domestic revenues. Under new legislation from 1983, MOHA will receive a
block grant amounting to 13.27% of estimated domestic revenues with
adjustments made in the following year based on the actual revenues received.
Apart from the 10% of this block grant reserved for special projects, MOHA
will distribute funds to the provinces, cities and counties.  Thus, EPB or
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) will not in the future be concerned directly
with investments for county roads. This will further increase the need for
improved coordination in the planning of national, provincial and county
roads. The amount of the block grant to MOHA for 1983 is estimated at W 791.4
billion compared to W 719.0 billion received in 1982. In addition, the
provinces raise revenues through local taxes and receive subsidies from MOC
mainly for the maintenance of national gravel roads.
2.21       The total capital and recurrent expenditures planned for the FFYP,
1982-86, for the national, provincial, county and city roads and expressed in
1980 prices amount to W 1,770 billion or about US$3.0 billion and are 25%
higher than the W 1,420 billion spent in 1977-81 (Tables 2.7 and 2.8). The
actual expenditures during the first four plans in current prices are given
in Table 2.9. After adjustments based on a reasonable assumption of yearly
expenditure and variations in wholesale price index, these road expenditures
expressed in constant 1975 prices totalled about W 300 billion 1967-71,
W 350 billion 1972-76 and W 415 billion in 1977-81. The FFYP road investment
program appears very reasonable in view of forecast traffic increases of 40%
and 27% in freight ton-km and passenger-km respectively.  Such increases
in investment imply significant productivity gains in road transport. A
comparable increase in capacity was achieved during the Fourth Plan with
expenditures that were about 20% higher than the Third Plan.
2.22       The proposed road expenditures in the FFYP reflect a policy aiming
at more balanced investments between the national roads, for which about 50%
of total road expenditures has been earmarked, and the development of the
provincial, county, city and special city road networks. This is a marked
shift from previous plans where more than 70% was spent on national roads
including expressways. The share for maintenance of national roads has been
increased to 15% of the expenditure on those roads, an increase from the 11%,
6% and 2% spent respectively during the Fourth, Third and Second plans.
However, 57% of all maintenance expenditures in 1981 by MOC was spent by KHC
on its network of 1,245 km, and the balance spent on the 12,000 km national
road network (Table 2.10).  This imbalance can be explained partly by the
higher traffic and standard of KHC expressways, but mainly reflects the
freedom of KIC to dispose of the funds collected through tolls. Past MOHA
allocations for maintenance have been inadequate. This problem of
coordinating the level of expenditures with the actual needs on the various
road networks is being addressed under the project (para. 3.11).



- 14 -
2.23       Road user charges are closely in line with road expenditures.
Between 1977 and 1980, revenues reached W 1,306 billion versus expenditures
of W 1,369 billion (Table 2.11). However, there is a strong imbalance of
contribution among users; commercial vehicles making most damage to the
network are those contributing least.  Taxation is particularly high on
private cars, the main taxes being on acquisition - over 50% of the ex-factory
price -, and usage - about 35-40% of "on the road" value - which amount for
a small car to about W 1,200,000 (US$1,775) in 1981.  Taxes on heavy
vehicles are more moderate, amounting to about 10% of total operating costs
for trucks and buses used by common carriers, but are more substantial for
those used by private owners.  There is no axle-load tax.  In addition,
taxes on gasoline, add up to around 150% of the ex-refinery price, while
diesel fuel is taxed at only 20% (Table 2.12).
F. Design and Construction
2.24      MOC, through the BPR, has the responsibility for planning and
design of national roads including expressways and those provincial roads
whose construction is to be funded by MOF or external sources.  Consultants
are employed for the design of major road works and work in a study group
system comprising seconded BPR staff and the consultants. The design of
smaller road works is usually done through the Regional Construction Offices.
Supervision of construction is also done by consultants in collaboration with
the Regional Construction Offices. MOHA has only recently become involved
in major road design work in connection with the county road program, and
employs consultants for these major works under the same system of study
groups as done by MOC. The study group system has the considerable
advantage of transferring road design technology to local staff.  It has been
most successful with MOC staff but, because of the present shortage of
engineers, it has had only limited success so far in MOHA.
2.25        Korea has a strong well developed engineering consulting industry,
now totalling some 30 firms.  The industry is fully competent in all aspects
of engineering design but has so far only a limited capacity in areas of
transport economics, preparation and implementation of road maintenance
programs and supervision of construction, although this capacity is growing.
The usual arrangement at present is that foreign firms provide a nucleus
of key staff to assist MOC and MOHA in the overall organization and
coordination of feasibility studies with particular reference to identifying
alternatives and doing economic analyses. When the studies have been
completed and alignments and standards selected, the detailed engineering is
done almost entirely by local firms. The participation of foreign firms at
that stage, and for the supervision of construction is limited to overall
management and assistance with special problems. The domestic engineering
consulting industry will continue to have a substantial involvement in
consultant services to be provided under the proposed project (para. 3.08).



- 15 -
2.26      Competitive bidding is tne established method for awarding
contracts and international competitive bidding (ICB) is used for contracts
financed by external sources and for specialized construction work. Only
minor improvement works and small-scale local works are done by force
account. This policy, combined with the large volume of construction works
in Korea during the past ten years, has resulted in the development of a
large, efficient and experienced contracting industry (para. 1.07). Because
of the strong domestic contracting industry, foreign contractors have not
been successful in obtaining work in Korea, although some have been
prequalified during the international bidding procedures.
2.27      As a result of the past concentration on national roads and
expressways, the Korean contractors have become very experienced and effi-
cient in the construction of high quality and high cost asphaltic concrete
pavements. However, they have little experience on the lower cost double
bituminous surface treatment (DBST) pavements which is often more
appropriate for the development of the tertiary network with generally lower
traffic volumes. In keeping with government policy of adopting least cost
solutions to transport problems, a shift to DBST pavements instead of
asphaltic concrete pavements would be supported under the project. The use
of DBST surfacing has considerable advantages in Korea. Potential cost
savings are substantial. Assuming that the 10,000 km gravel network of
county roads would be paved eventually, a saving of the order of W 100.0
billion could result from a move to DBST paving. Substantial saving in
foreign exchange would also result. Furthermore, the use of DBST paving is
more suited to the adoption of a stage development approach. Maintenance is
also relatively simpler and the use of less sophisticated equipment allows
the participation of small local contractors. To promote such a shift, the
proposed project will include an onr-site training program for Korean
contractors, as well as engineers from MOC and MOHA, in the use of DBST
pavements (para. 3.10).
G. Maintenance
2.28      KHC is maintaining the expressway network to a high standard.  It
has an effective maintenance organization with four Regional Offices and 19
Field Maintenance Offices, each of the latter responsible for 50 to 70 km of
expressway. The organization has well-trained and experienced staff, a
large number of maintenance equipment units and adequate funding from tolls.
2.29      MOC's organization to maintain the national road network was
established and strengthened during previous highway projects through the
provision of technical assistance and road maintenance equipment and is now
satisfactory. However, the actual budget allocations for maintenance work
during the late 1970s were below the targets agreed with Government under
previous highway projects. Following discussions between Government and the
Bank, the Government increased its provision to 72% of the estimated
requirement for 1979-81; this was accepted by the Bank due to severe
budgetary constraints in Korea.  Maintenance allocations for 1982 are
satisfactory an- ;r.ply with agreements under the Fourth Highway Project.



- 16 -
2.30      MOHA maintenance organizations at central, provincial and county
levels are particularly weak; no proper planning of work is done and the
maintenance techniques used are inadequate due to lack of trained staff,
equipment and materials, As a consequence, the condition of the provincial
and county gravel roads is generally poor with some roads barely passable by
car. Little regravelling work has been done and what little has been done is
unsatisfactory. Grading of gravel surface is difficult because of the poor
material used and when done makes very little improvement to the riding
quality. A survey of the paved provincial and county road networks done
during 1980 showed that about 50%Y of both networks required heavy patching or
resurfacing compared with a normal 15% to 20% for a properly built and well
maintained paved road network. To address the problem, the Government, with
Bank assistance under Loan 1640-KO Fourth Highway Project, has had consult-
ants, (BCEOM, France), prepare a five-year 1983-87 maintenance program for
the provincial and county road networks. The program will enable MOHA to
establish, by 1987, effective organizations at central, provincial and county
levels to carry out the routine and periodic maintenance of both networks.
The project will assist by providing technical assistance and training and
road maintenance equipment (para. 3.07).
I. Previous Bank-Financed Highway Projects
2.31      Results of the three highway projects that have been completed are
generally very satisfactory. A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on
the First Highway Project (Loan 769-KO)  including the Transport Technical
Assistance Credit (S4-KO) for preinvestment studies and on the Second Highway
Project (Loan 956-KO) was issued on June 25, 1980. The PPAR found that the
physical components were completed ahead of schedule, with only slight cost
increases, but with quality defects on some roads resulting from rapid
execution needing correction after completion. Delays occurred in the
implementation of legislative and administrative requirements for setting up
the road maintenance organization and also occurred in the selection of
candidates for training overseas. Improvements expected in transport
planning and coordination were less successful than anticipated. The
re-estimated economic rates of return (ERR) for the construction components
exceeded appraisal estimates; 34% against 28% for the First Highway Project;
and 30% against 26% for the Second Highway Project. The maintenance
component included in the second project showed an audit return of 38% versus
the appraisal estimate of 53%; this reduction was mainly due to delays in
implementation and the consequent partial effectiveness of the program. The
PPAR stressed the substantial contributions of the Bank supervision missions
to the establishment of the BPR.
2.32      A Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Third Highway Project
(Loan 1203-KO) was issued on April 30, 1982. The PCR found that the civil
works were completed on schedule with a cost increase of slightly more than
1%. The re-estimated ERRs for the project roads ranging from 15% to 53%
exceeded the appraisal estimates of 12% to 35% due mainly to the rapid
increases in actual traffic volumes. The project provided assistance in the



- 17 -
future development of the national and provincial road network through a
study which screened and ranked in order of economic priority the roads in
the national and provincial road system. A major policy achievement was the
formulation of Government policy on tolls through a Toll Road Study carried
out under the project.
2.33      Following increased budget allocations, progress is highly
satisfactory at prsent under the fourth ongoing project, which is expected to
be completed in mid-1983.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The major objective of the project will be to support Government-s
policy of promoting economic development in rural areas by the reduction of
transport costs through the improvement of the county or tertiary road
network.  Also included is the setting up of organizations at central and
local levels for the maintenance of provincial and county roads. With
agriculture steadily becoming more commercialized and diversified, transport
costs and quality of service are becoming increasingly important in order to
serve the heavier two-way flow of commodities and goods between urban and
rural areas. Moreover, given the high cost of domestic agricultural produce
relative to import costs, the rural sector needs to be made as efficient as
possible to reduce the burden on the Government and on urban consumers.
Finally, the promotion of off-farm income opportunities for the rural
population requires inexpensive access to secondary urban centers.
3.02      The recent improvement of the primary and secondary road networks,
assisted by the Bank through four.highway projects (para. 1.10), has substan-
tially reduced transport costs and has contributed to the overall increase in
production and productivity. In addition, the improvement of the village and
farm access roads under the rural development programs of the early 1970s,
connected the agricultural production centers to the road network. This too
has been supported by the Bank through two Rural Infrastructure projects.
However, the tertiary or county road network linking county centers and main
villages to the secondary and primary network was neglected. Those roads
have remained unimproved and their condition has deteriorated due to the
increased traffic and lack of proper maintenance. They, therefore,
constitute a major constraint to the development needs of the rural areas
where agriculture, the primary activity, still employs 34% of the country's
work force. Accordingly, the Government has given high priority in the FFYP
to improvement of the county road system.
3.03      Over the next five years, the Government has planned to invest over
W 330 billion or US$460 million for improving some 2,300 km of county roads
and over W 180 billion or US$250 million for the setting up and operation of
a maintenance organization for the county and provincial roads totalling



- 18 -
22,000 km. The proposed project will assist Government in carrying out the
first phase of MOHMAs overall program. The project would also promote
improved integration of the planning of the road system by carrying out a
review of road investment plans to ensure that county road development is
coordinated with the development of the national and provincial road net-
works. It would promote the adoption of low-cost paving techniques, DBST,
and train local contractors and engineers in its use. Other important
objectives are to train MOHA staff in road planning and coordination,
transport economics, equipment management, financial management, and
accounting, and to help Government improve road safety and improve transport
services in remote areas. In helping to achieve these objectives the project
is a logical extension of the previous four highway projects.
B. Description
3.04      The project would consist of:
(a) improvement of about 1,000 km of provincial county roads of which
about 820 km will be paved and the remainder gravel surfaced;
(b) assist in setting up and providing equipment for organizations of
central provincial and country adiministrative levels to implement
a maintenance programm;
(c) consultant services for:
(i)  supervision of county road improvement works;
(ii) technical assistance for the provincial and county road
maintenance program;
(iii) detailed engineering of an additional 1,000 km of county
roads;
(iv) assistance in the implementation of an on-site training
program for Korean contractors, MOHA and MOC staff in
the use of double bituminous surface treatment (DBST);
(v)  a study for the integrated investment planning of the road
system; and
(vi) a road safety study.
(d) provision of overseas fellowships for the training of MOHA staff
in road planning and coordination, economic analyses, equipment
management and financial management and accounting.



- 19 -
Improvement of County Roads
3.05      The selection of the county roads to be financed under the project
results from a screening analysis carried out by Consultants (BCEOM, France)
and local consultants, as part of the County Road Development Study financed
under the Fourth Highway Project, Loan 1640-KO.  The study was conducted in
two stages from September 1979 to February 1981.  The first stage mainly
screened the 12,500 km of the county road network to outline a long-range
improvement program and to identify a set of priority roads for further
investigation. The second stage refined the screening criteria and
procedures and analyzed in more detail a total of 2,900 km; the criteria
used were first-year benefit cost ratios, based on traffic and estimated
construction costs, the road functions and regional balance. The final
study report recommended that about 2,000 km be included in the FFYP.
Detailed engineering studies for the package of 1,000 km included in this
project were carried out from September 1981 to September 1982 and financed
under the Fourth Highway Project; an economic evaluation, also done at this
time, established the roads' economic feasibility at the standards proposed.
Detailed engineering for an additional 1,000 km of county roads is included
in the proposed project.
3.06      The proposed roads are located in 80 of the 139 counties and are
distributed throughout all nine provinces. The roads proposed for improve-
ment, road length, design standard, paving type, traffic and provincial
distribution are shown in Table 3.1. Present traffic on the roads is
relatively heavy for a tertiary network and ranges from 50 ADT to 1,200 ADT;
since appraisal about 300 km of the roads proposed for improvement have been
reclassified as provincical roads.  The design standards for county roads
are shown in Table 3.2. Existing alignments will be used to the extent
compatible with sound engineering and road safety. Existing bridges will
also be used but strengthened where necessary. The improvement works cover
road widening, improved drainage and new pavement construction. Where
warranted, the pavement will be paved with asphaltic concrete or a double
bituminous surface treatment (DBST); at present it is estimated that about
820 km will be paved and the remainder gravel surfaced. Agreements on the
road standards and paving type for the various segments were reached with
Government at negotiations.
Provincial and County Road Maintenance
3.07      To address the problem of the rapidly deteriorating condition of
provincial and county roads MOHA, in late 1979, employed consultants (BCEOM,
France and Saman, Korea) financed under the Fourth Highway Project, to
prepare a five-year maintenance program (1983-87) for the roads (para.
2.29). Details of the comprehensive 5-year program are given in Table 3.3
for projected physical output and in Table 3.4 for related expenditures.
MOHA has generally accepted the recommendations of the study and fully
agrees with the basic objective which is to have effective maintenance
organizations in place at central and local levels by 1987.  In order to



- 20 -
test the new organizational functions, systems and operational techniques,
the program will be introduced initially on a pilot basis for the full
program in three of the nine provinces, Gangweon, Jeonnam and Gyeongbug and
for the paved network in the remaining provinces. The physical work targets
for the maintenance program in the pilot provinces are shown in Table 3.5 and
corresponding expenditures are shown in Table 3.6. Some 50% of the mainte-
nance work will be done in 1983 and 1984, some 75% in 1985 and from 1986 the
full program will be implemented. Evaluation of the pilot program will be
done continuously and the organizational functions, systems and operational
techniques will be reviewed before adopting them in the remaining provinces.
The Bank will finance (a) provision of technical assistance and on-the-job
training with emphasis initially on Central MOHA and the pilot provinces; (b)
procurement of road maintenance equipment for the program (Table 3.7) and (c)
overseas training fellowships for MOHA staff.
Consultant Services
3.08      A total of some 1,070 man-months of consultant services is estimated
to be needed under the proposed project; about 800 man-months will be provided
by local consultants and the balance of 270 man-months by expatriate consul-
tants. Local consulting expertise and experience will be used to the extent
possible (para. 2.25). The supervision of the county road improvement works
will be done mainly by local staff supported by a number of key staff provided
by foreign consultants; it is estimated that some 300 man-months of local
staff and about 150 man-months of expatriate staff will be required. Local
consultants will provide about 500 man-months for the design of the additional
1,000 km of county roads in preparation for the next phase of the county road
development program, again assisted by a small number of key staff provided by
foreizn consultants for which some 28 man-months would be needed to coordinate
the work and ensure that least cost design solutions are adopted.
3.09      About 65 man-months of expatriate consultant staff will be needed
to help support in the implementation of MOHA's maintenance program, centrally
and in the provinces. This work would comprise the preparation and introduc-
tion of the road management functions concerning planning, feasibility
studies, improved maintenance operational techniques, contract management,
financial management and accounting, cost control, and equipment management,
including the setting up of an equipment fund for repair and replacement of
equipment. The consultants will be provided with counterpart staff to ensure
the transfer of technology. The technical assistance team would consist of
four staff: an Economist Planner, a Management and Accounting expert, a
Highway/Maintenance Engineer, and a Mechanical Engineer/Equipment Management
Specialist.
3.10      Because of the lack of experience in Korea with DBST and the
consequent reluctance of engineers and contractors to adopt such technology
(para. 2.27), a comprehensive on-site training program in the use of DBST will
be included in the project. A number of the county roads prposed for paving,



- 21 -
representing different terrain type and climatic conditions, will be
selected and used as demonstration sites for the applicaton of DBST paving
in accordance with detailed specifications. Contractors equipment will be
used and contractors' staff and engineers from MOHA and MOC will be trained
in the execution of the work and in the supervision and quality control of
the work. Under the proposed project an expatriate expert in DBST paving
will be made available for a period of about 12 man-months to prepare the
demonstration training program and related specifications and to supervise
the actual demonstration and control the work on site.
3.11      In order to ensure that future development of the national, provin-
cial and county roads proceeds on a coordinated basis, the road investment
plans of MOC, KHC and MOHA will be reviewed by a study to be performed under
the overall management of the BPR Planning Division. An expatriate transport
economist will assist in carrying out the study. Existing and projected
traffic flows would be analyzed to determine the interrelationships among the
systems. The study should reduce the possibility of redundancy and contribute
to greater efficiency of road investment and would be completed in about one
year. A committee of representatives of MOHA, KHC and EPB, under the overall
management of MOC, meeting as a group, would supervise the study and would
contribute to institutionalizing balanced road development. Establishment of
the committee was agreed with Government during negotiations. About 4
man-months of services by a road safety expert will be provided to the Road
Traffic Safety Association to review traffic accident data, advise on improved
data collection, assist in the analysis of data and help formulate policies
that would help the Association reduce the present high rate of road
accidents.
3.12      Draft Terms of Reference for the consulting services were agreed
during negotations. All consultants will be employed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Overseas Training Fellowships
3.13      With its increased responsibility for the county road development
and provincial and county road maintenance, MOHA will require considerable
strengthening in the fields of planning and economic analysis, financial
management and accounting and equipment management. About ten selected MOHA
staff will receive specialiged training in institutions or highway organiza-
tions overseas for periods of up to one year. The technical assistance team
(para. 3.09) will assist in the selection of suitable candidates for training
and will ensure that the training program is coordinated with the manpower
needs for the implementation of the above programs.



- 22 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.14      The cost of the project, including physical, price contingencies
and right-of-way costs, is estimated at US$259.70 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$134.09 million or about 52%. A summary of project
costs is given in the following table; all base costs are estimated at end
1982. Taxes and duties are estimated at about 10% on item A or Won 14.7 bil-
lion (US$19.8 million equivalent). Physical contingencies of 10% were
applied to all components. Annual price escalation rates, in accordance
with Bank guidelines, were applied to items A and B as follows: for local
and foreign costs - 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984 and 7% for 1985 and 6.0%
thereafter. A rate of exchange of Won 745 to the US dollar was used for the
calculation of the US dollar equivalent costs.
3.15      The cost estimates for the improvement of the 1,000 km of pro-
vincial and county roads are based on detailed engineering prepared by
consultants, BCEOM (France) in collaboration with six domestic consultants.
Unit prices are based on those for similar work items for road works under
the Fourth Highway Project adjusted to reflect increases estimated to end
1982.
3.16      The base cost per kilometer of the county road improvements averages
US$154,600. While the design standards used are reasonable for the projected
traffic volumes, costs are high for this class of road, reflecting in part the
substantial cost escalation in civil works in Korea in recent years and in
part the generally difficult terrain and need for frost-resistant pavement.
The foreign exchange component of the civil works, estimated at 49%, is based
on construction by domestic contractors; the foreign exchange component would
increase to about 52% if foreign contractors are involved. However, this is
unlikely since foreign contractors have, in the past, shown little interest in
bidding in Korea despite international competitive bidding (ICB) and
worldwide advertising of bids.
3.17      The costs of the equipment needed for the provincial and county road
maintenance program are based on prices quoted by suppliers of equipment
manufactured outside Korea and adjusted to end-1982 (Table 3.7).
3.18      The costs of consultants' services for the project are based on
previous contracts with consultants for similar work, taking into account
the mix of expatriate and local staff in the case of the supervision and
detailed engineering services. Average man-month cost of expatriate
consultant staff for all services is estimated at US$12,000 including salary
and overhead, international travel and local allowances. Local consultant
staff man-month cost is estimated at US$2,600 including travel and
allowances. Other costs include costs of vehicles including fuel and
maintenance, local office facilities and utilities and local support staff.



Project Cost Summary
W million                                     US$'000
% of
Project Element                                                                                               % of    total
foreign   base
Local      Foreign    Total         Local       Foreign    Total   exchange  costs
A.  County road improvement (1,006 km)         59,090.6  56,773.4  115,864.0   79,316.3  76,205.9  155,522.1            49.0    81.6
B. Equipment for provincial and county
road maintenance program                      -    20,111.0   20,111.0            -    26,994.6   26,994.6   100.0        14.2
C. Consultant Services
Supervision of county road improve-
ment                                      909.0   1,111.0    2,020.0    1,220.1    1,491.3         2,711.4    55.0        1.4
Technical assistance                        780.0      520.0    1,300.0    1,047.0         698.0    1,745.0    40.0        0.9
Engineering of 1,000 km county roads  2,034.0          226.0    2,260.0    2,730.2         303.4    3,033.6       10.0      1.6
Studies - road network analysis and
road safety                                37.2      148.8       186.0         49.9      199.7       249,7    80.0       0.1
Contractor training                         100.0      100.0       200.0        134.2      134.2       268.5    50.0        0.1 
Subtotal consultant services        3,860.2   2,105.8    5,960.0    5,181.5   2,826.6    8,008.1            35.3      4.2
D.  Training fellowships                            22.0       88.0       110.0         29.5      118.1       147.7    80.0       0.1
Total Baseline Costs               62,972.8  79,078.2  142,051.0   84,527.3 106,145.2  190,672.5    55.7   100.0
E.  Physical contingencies                       6,297.3   7,907.8   14,205.1    8,452.7  10,614.5    19,067.2          55.7     10.0
Price contingencies                        11,399.7  12,908.4   24,308.4   15,301.6  17,327.1    32,628.7    53.1            17.1
Total                              80,669.8  99,894.7  180,564.5  108,281.6 134,086.8  242,368.4    55.3   127.1
F.  Right of way                                12,909.0        -      12,909.0   17,327.5          -      17,327.5
Total Project Costs                93,578.8  99,894.7  193,473.5  125,609.1 134,086.8  259,695.9    51.6



- 24 -
D. Financing
3.19      The total cost of the project, including contingencies, and
right-of-way is estimated at about US$259.70 million and the foreign exchange
cost at about US$134.09 million. The Bank loan of US$125 million will cover
about 93% of the foreign exchange costs. In addition to the counterpart funds
to meet the capital costs of the project, MOA would provide about W 18.4
billion for 1983, W 26.7 billion for 1984 and W 35.8 billion for 1985 (Table
3.4) to meet the recurrent costs of the provincial and county road maintenance
program over the three-year project period. During negotiations, it was
agreed with Government that they will provide all the counterpart and
recurrent funds needed to implement the project.
E. Implementation and Procurement
3.20      MOHA will be responsible for carrying out the county road
development project, the provincial and county road maintenance program, and
the detailed engineering for another 1,000 km of county roads to be included
in the next phase of the county road improvement program. MONA will be
assisted by consultants in the bidding procedures and supervision of the
county road improvement works, and in the preparation of the detailed
engineering. Consultants will also provide MOHA with technical assistance to
establish the organizations and procedures, including contracting of periodic
maintenaai e, to tully implement the maintenance program initially on a pilot
basis in three provinces. MOHA will carry out the training program for
contractors and engineers in the use of DBST paving. MOHA will also be
responsible, through the Road Traffic Safety Association for the study on road
traffic accidents. MOC will be responsible for the study for the integrated
investment planning of the road system, assisted by the transport economist.
An implementation schedule for the project (Annex 1) was confirmed with
Government during negotiations.
3.21      The road construction and improvement works, for which bid documents
have been prepared and estimated to cost US$200.18 million, including
contingencies, will be carried out through contracts awarded on the basis of
ICB by prequalified firms in accordance with the Bank guidelines and with
assistance from the consultants. Bidders will be allowed to bid for separate
or groups of contracts depending on the value of works for which they are
prequalified. Equipment for the maintenance program estimated to cost
US$33.22 million, including contingencies, will be procured through contracts
awarded after international competitive bidding, also in accordance with the
Bank guidelines; foreign bids will be evaluated on the c.i.f. (point of
entry) cost, and local bids on the ex-factory cost, with a margin of
preference of 15%, or the import duties and taxes, whichever is lower, allowed
to domestic manufacturers. Because the MOHA's lack of experience on Bank
financed procurement, all bidding packages for civil works and equipment would
be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation.



25 -
3.22      In line with Government policy to involve domestic contractors in
maintenance work, unit price contracts for the periodic maintenance of paved
provincial and county roads and for 30% of the regravelling work, all financed
by local funds, will be awarded after local competitive bidding.
F. Auditing
3.23      Loan disbursements will be made against priced contracts for civil
works and equipment. Interim certification of civil works completed and
costed at unit rates in the contracts will be done by MOHA at central and
provincial levels and the supervisory consultants. Extra worvQ or varintion
orders to the contracts which would have the effect of increasing the contract
amounts by more than 20% would be approved by the Bank before being issued;
this was agreed with Government during negotiations. Loan disbursements for
training overseas will be made against the actual costs of travel, subsistence
and tuition or training fees. Disbursements against statements of expenditure
will not be needed for any of the project components financed under the Loan.
These procedures will facilitate the accurate auditing and accounting of the
loan funds. The technical assistance team will introduce cost control systems
and auditing and accounting procedures at MOHA central and local levels for
all expenditures made for force account work on routine and periodic
maintenance to be done by MOHA forces.
3.24      MOHA accounts are audited each year internally and also externally
by the Government Board of Inspection and Audit which can be considered an
independent auditing body. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
Government that the audited accounts prepared by the Board of Inspection and
Audit will be sent to the Bank for review within six months of the close of
the fiscal year.
G. Progress Reporting and Monitoring
3.25      Agreement was confirmed with Government during negotiations on the
progress report and monitoring requirements for the project. Table 3.3
through 3.6 give the targets in physical and financial terms for the mainte-
nance program and progress will be reported against these targets. Annex 2
gives details of Project Monitoring Indices.  Agreement was also reached
with Government during negotiations on the preparation and submission by
Government of a Project Completion Report not later than six months after Loan
closing date.
H. Environment and Urban Aspects
3.26      The road improvement works will not cause any significant environ-
mental problem. By following the existing road alignments to the extent
technically and economically possible, the acquisition of land, particularly



- 26 -
agricultural land, will be minimized. Road safety would be enhanced by the
implementation of the recommendations of the road safety study and by
improved alignment and the reduction of existing hazardous dust and mud by
the bituminous paving. Since the roads are mainly in the rural areas, the
urban aspect of the project is not significant. During negotiations the
arrangement for the acquisition of land for the rights-of-way was finalized
with Government.
I. Disbursements
3.27      Disbursements from the loan would be made against the following
categories of expenditures:
(a)  50% of the total cost of county roads improvement;
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported road
maintenance equipment or 100% of the local expenditures
(ex-factory price) excluding identifiable taxes and duties,
of locally manufactured equipment;
(c) 100% of the costs of foreign and local consulting services; and
(d) 100% of the costs of the overseas training of staff.
A Schedule of Estimated Disbursement is given in Table 3.8, and gives a
comparison with the disbursement profile for Korea. The estimated dis-
bursements generally follow the country profile except that disbursements
are expected to be completed earlier since the smaller road contracts and
the large contractor capacity available in Korea should ensure early
completion of civil works.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Improvement of County Roads
4.01      The traffic volumes on the project road sections were estimated by
several counts carried out since 1978 by the counties and supplemented by a
country wide traffic survey organized by MOHA in 1980. Traffic volumes were
checked and adjusted on the basis of a systematic three day count organized by
the consultants in December 1981. Actual traffic volumes for 1981 vary from
50 vehicles per day (vpd) up to 1,200, with an average of 400 vpd. The
distribution of traffic over the 99 sections is given in Table 4.1. Traffic
volumes at the opening year in 1985 were estimated on the basis of the
actual traffic in 1981, adjusted by the expected traffic growth and by
traffic likely to be generated by the road improvements. Generated traffic,
estimated in relation to the traffic elasticity selected for each type of
vehicle, is expected to increase normal traffic by about 40% after opening
of the roads. The traffic growth rates selected over the 20-year life



- 2 7 -
period of the project reflect the road functions and general economic
trends. Five percent growth rate per annum was used for local interest
roads serving remote areas, and 8% p.a. was used for roads bearing
substantial through traffic. Intermediate rates were used for roads with
both functions. A 9% p.a. growth rate was used for roads close to cities
where faster growth could be expected. Moreover, to reflect changes in
traffic composition, growth rates were adjusted for type of vehicle.
Typical traffic composition and growth rates are given in Table 4.2.
Diverted traffic was also allowed for in relevant cases.
4.02      The main benefits obtained from the improvement of the county roads
are substantial savings in vehicle operating costs (VOGs) accruing to road
users. Without the project, the already high VOCs would increase further with
the growth of traffic. As a percentage of existing VOCs, savings vary from a
minimum of 25% up to a maximum of 45%. Typical values of VOCs for different
class of road standards are given in Table 4.3; they include time value for
drivers of all vehicles except for private cars.
4.03      Other benefits include a reduction in travel time for passengers.
Value of time was estimated at W 500 per hour for private cars and taxi
passengers and at W 300 per hour for bus passengers.  Average occupancy ratios
were estimated at 3 passengers for cars, 2 for taxis and 30 for buses.  The
time value per vehicle/km range from W 50-125 for a private car, from W 33-83
for a taxi and W 300-750 for a bus, depending on the speed of vehicles. Total
savings in travel time due to the paving of an earth road average about 55%
of passengers time value but only about 15% of the total VOC savings.
4.04      The economic rates of return (ERR) for the county roads, calcula-
ted with and without time savings, range from 15% to over 50% (Tables 3.1 and
4.4). Overall, the ERR for the county roads, which account for 80% of the
total project cost, is 30% with and 28% without time savings. For the
typical road, total benefits from improvement and paving would be distri-
buted by vehicle category as follows: over 50% to trucks, about 30% to buses
and 10% each to cars and taxis. The distribution reflects the existing
traffic composition of 60% of heavy vehicles. During the service life of
the project, light traffic, including motorcycles, is expected to gradually
increase its share of the benefits. Nevertheless, after 20 years, trucks
and buses would still account for about 70% of the benefits.
4.05      The new paved roads will improve road safety by eliminating the
hazardous conditions caused by dust and mud. The construction and paving work
will create employment for about 4,000 workers over a 30-month period; about
60% will be unskilled labor that can be recruited locally. The introduction
of unscheduled transport services on an experimental basis will contribute
to more frequent and inexpensive transport, particularly for people in
remote areas having no access to motorized transportation.



28 -
B. Provincial and County Roads Maintenance Program
4.06      The present project will assist MOHA to strengthen the maintenance
system for the provincial and county roads network totalling 22,000 km.
Improved road maintenance will not only reduce VOCs but help to preserve
newly paved roads.  The main cost components of the maintenance program are
the recurrent expenditures and the caDital outlay for equipment, technical
assistance and training. The economic assessment is based on expenditures
planned in the Five-Year Maintenance Program, including both capital and
recurrent costs.
4.07      The benefits will accrue gradually as the programn is fully
implemented, and have been accounted over eight years, from 1985 to 1992,
the assumed average service life of the equipment. The qumntified benefits
include only savings in VOCs which are estiTrated to range from 17% for gravel
roads to 10% for paved roads. Traffic growth rates have been assumed at 7%
for provincial roads and 5% for county roads. Basic data used in the calcu-
lation of transportation costs savings with and without the program are
given in Table 4.5. Based on the most probable estimates of maintenance and
rehabilitation costs, including a sizeable increase in recurrent costs, and
benefits from VOCs savings on gravel and paved roads, the maintenance
program is expected to yield an ERR of 92%. Detailed streams of costs and
benefits are given in Table 4.6.
C. Risk and Sensitivity An.lysis
4.08      The county road improvement comipornent of the project is not
subject to unusual risks with respect to execution and essentially consists
of similar works already executed by MOHA. The introduction of DBST is a
manageable risk that the training programi for contractors will reduce
considerably.  Cost estimates have been based on detailed engineering and on
the experience of MIOC and the consultants with recent similar works. In the
Fourth Highway Project construction component, scheduled for completion in
June 1983, the cost increases, excluding price escalation, are presently
expected to be of the order of 20%. Assuming no time savings, a 25%
increase in construction costs and a 25% decrease in benefits, the overall
ERR for the county roads improvement would decrease but would remain a very
satisfactory 19%, considerably above the opportunity cost of capital,
estimated at 12% in Korea (Table 4.4).
4.09      Because of the institutional, procedural and training problems
related to the setting up of a new more effective organization for the mainte-
nance of the provincial and county roads, some cost increase and decrease in
benefits may be judged more likely, although these should be minimized with
the help of the technical assistance team. Assuming a 20% cost increase in
maintenance expenditures combined with a reduction of 25% in expected



- 29 -
benefits, which is a rather conservative assumption, the ERR would decrease
to about 51%. The economic justification of the maintenance program would
not be impaired (Table 4.6).
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreemconts were rea-hed with Government
that:
(a)  a plan for the introduction of unscheduled transport services
in a certain pilot area and for monitoring the response to such
services would be implemented by September 30, 1983 (para. 2.08);
(b)  a Road Maintenance Section would be established in MOHA by
April 30, 1983, and that a Road Management Division would be
established in MOHA by June 30, 1985 (para. 2.16);
(c)  the design standards and paving type for the roads to be included in
the project were acceptable (para. 3.06);
(d)  a committee would be established for the study of integrated road
investment planning (para. 3.11);
(e)  consultants would be employed under the terms of reference and
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Government and the
Bank (para. 3.12);
(f)  the counterpart and recurrent funds needed for the implementation of
the project would be provided (para. 3.19);
(g)  Bank approval would be sought for proposed variation of extra works
orders to county road contracts when such variation or extra work
orders would increase the contract amounts by more than 20% (para.
3.23); and
(h)  that independent auditors will audit the expenditures in respect
of the project and will submit to the Bank the audited accounts
within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 3.24).
5.02      During loan negotiations understandings were reached with Government
on:
(a)  an implementation schedule for the project (para. 3.20);
(b)  progress reporting and project monioring requirements and on the
submmission of a Project Completion Report (para. 3.25); and
(c)  a time-schedule for the acquisition of the right-of-way
(para. 3.26).



- 30 -
5.03      The project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$125 million (repre-
senting about 48% of the total cost) for a period of about 15 years with a
grace period of 3 years.



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Growth Trend ot Domestic Passenger Traffic (1961-81)
(Units: 1,000 passengers; million pass-km)
1961                1966         1962-66           1971          1967-71           1976          1972-76           1981          1977-81
Traffic    %        traffic      %      % in-      Traffic    %         % in-      Traffic      %       X in-       Traffic     %       X in-
volume  share       volume  share   crease         volume  share    crease         volume  share       crease       volume  share      crease
Passenger
Rail
Rail intercity   88,291    13.0       138,299    8.3        9.4      128,159    4.1        (1.5)     144,889      2.1       2.5
Seoul suburban        N.A.   -             N.A.   -         -             N.A.   -          -         103,840     2.0       -
Subtotal        88,291    13.0     138,299      8.3      9.4      128,159      4.1      (1.5)     248,699      4.7      14.2      470,/54      5.2       13.b
Subway                     -    -               -    -        -               -    -          -          33,914    0.6         -        102,200      1.1      24.7
Highway
Intercity             N.A.   -        272,313    16.4       -        339,886   10.7         4.5      651,624    12.2       13.5
Urban                  N.A.   -    1,239,245   74.9         -      2,684,343   85.0        16.5   4,399,359   82.4          10.5
Subtotal       586,864   86.4  1,511,558   91.3    20.8   3,024,229    95.7             14.9   5,050,983    94.6        10.8   8,525,291    93.6         11.0
Maritime               3,743    0.6        5,909    0.4        9.6        6,371    0.2         1.5        5,994    0.1        (1.2)        9,006     0.1        8.5
Aviation                  62    -             192    -        34.1        1,105    -         44.8            795    -         (5.6)        1,629    -          15.4
Total          678,960  100.0  1,655,958   100.0        19.5   3,159,864  100.0         13.8   5,340,385   100.0        11.1   9,108,880   100.0         11.3
Pass-km
Rail
Rail intercity      5,372   53.0         8,665   42.5      10.0         8,750   27.1        0.8        12,441    21.2        7.3
Seoul suburban        N.A.   -             N.A.   -         -             N.A.   -          -           1,864     3.2        -
Subtotal         5,372   53.0         8,665   42.5      10.0        8,750   27.1         0.8        14,305   24.4       1U.3        23,401    24.9       1U.3
Subway                     -    -               -    -        -                -    -          -             388    0.7        -           1,362     1.4      28.5
Highway
Intercity             N.A.   -             N.A.   -         -          11,937   37.0        -          25,030   42.7        16.0
Urban                  N.A.   -            N.A.   -         -          10,980   34.1        -          18,369   31.3        10.7
Subtotal         4,618   45.5       11,464   56.2       19.9       22,917   71.1        14.9       43,399    74.0       13.6        68,247    72.6        9.5
Maritime                 136     1.3          196     1.0      7.8           256    0.8        5.5           249    0.4       (0.6)          426    0.5        11.3
Aviation                  18    0.2            55    0.3    43.7             314     1.0      41./           276   O0.        (2 .)          58/    (.b        16.3
Total           10,144  100.0        20,380  100.0      15.0       32,237   100.0        9.6        58,617   100.0       12./       94,023   100.0        9.9
Sources:  Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan, Transportation Sector Plan (1982-86), 1981, Transportation Sector Planning Task                               a
Force, MOT, Korea, pp. 2-3.  Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1981, MOT, Korea, pp. 16-17, pp. 60-63, pp. 110-113.   Statistical
Yearbook of Transportation - 1973, MOT, Korea, pp. 76-77.
September 1982



KOR EA
PROVINCIAL ANWD COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Growth Trend of Domestic Freight Traffic (1961-81)
(Units: 1,000 tons; million tons-km)
1961               1966        1962-66           1971         1967-71          1976          1972-76          1981          1977-81
Traffic    7        traffic    x      % in-      Traffic             % % in-    Traffic  -         2 in-      Traffic    X         x in-
voluime  share     volume  share   crease        volume  share    crease        volume  share    crease        volume  share    crease
To nnage
Railway             15,373   47.9       24,064   46.9       9.4       31,955   25.1        5.9      43,629   17.8        6.7       51,225   28.1        3.3
Highway
Commercial           N.A.   -            N.A.   -         -         73,934   58.0       -         93,751   38.1        4.9
Private & gov-t.    N.A.   -             N.A.   -         -         10,320    8.1       -         94,439   38.5       55.7
Subtotal       15,299   47.6      24, 528   47.8      9.9       84%254   66.1       28.0      188,190   76.6       17.5      110,826   60.8    (10.0)
Maritime              1,442    4.5       2,686    5.3    13.2         11,263    8.8      34.2       13,829     5.6        5.3      20,215   11.1        7.9
Aviation                  -    -              -    -        -              7    -        49.1             5    -        (5.7)           13    -        19.9
Total          32,114  100.0       51,279  100.0      9.8      127,479  100.0       18.0      245,653  100.0        5.2      182,279  100.0        3.8
To ns-km
Railway              3,486   88.3        5,450   81.6       9.4        7,841   48.9       7.6        9,728   44.6        4.7       11,267   46.3        3.0
Hlighway
Commercial           N.A.   -            N.A.   -        -          3,302   20.6        -          4,374   20.1        6.0
Private & gov t.    N.A.   -             N.A.   -         -            237    1.5       -          2,172    9.9       55.0
Subtotal          323    8.2          558    8.4    11.8         3,539   22.1       44.9        6,546   30.0       13.0        5,235   21.6       (4.2)
Maritime                141    3.6         672   10.0    45.2          4,653   29.0      50.2         5,533   25.4       4.1        7,815   32.1        7.2
Aviation                  -    -             -    -         -              2    -         -               2    -        (2.5)            5    -         1.2
Total           3,950  100.0        6,680  100.0    11.1        16,026  100.0       18.8       21,809  100.0        4.4       24,322  100.0        4.4
Sources:  Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan, Transportation Sector Plan (1982-86), 1981, Transportation Sector Planning Task
Force, MOT, Korea, pp. 2-3.
Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1981, MOT, Korea, pp. 111, 113, 155, 157.
Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1973, MOT, Korea, pp. 76-77, 101.
September 1982
'-



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Forecast for Doce.tic Parsenger Triintport (1980-86)
1980                     1981                     1982                     1983                      1984                      1985                       1986            1982-86  1986-80
%                        I                        I                         I                                                                              %            A-erge   MoOtn-
Share  Growth            Share  Gro-th            Share  Groth              Shbre  Gro-th             Sh-re Growt.h             Share  Growth              Sh-re  Growth  gro.th   plier
P....eaer ('000)
Total           8,544,916  100.0   5.4  9,108,880  100.0   6.6  9,864,917  100.0   8.3  10,733,029  100.0   8.8  11,634,603  100.0    8.4  12,600,275  100.0    8.3  13,633,497  100.0   8.2    8.40            1.60
R.ilways         430.773    5.0   1.7    470,754    5.2   9.3    523,873    5.3  11.3        585,856    5.5  11.8      650,931    5.6   11.1    721,065    5.7   10.8    793,702    5.8  10.1   11.01          1.84
Subhyt            65,076    0.8  (2.1)/a  102,200    1.1  37.0    113,515    1.2  11.1       181,405    1.7  59.8      363,905    3.1  100.6    805,555    6.4   121.4    962,140    7.1  19.4   56.59    14.78
High.sys       8,039,006   94.1   5.6  8,525.291   93.6   6.0  9,216,447   93.4   8.1   9,954,056   92.7   8.0  10,607,368   91.2    6.6  11,060,434   87.8    4.3  11,863,642   87.0   7.3    6.83            1.48
0.1    15.7     11,601   0.1  15.        4.90     .3
Mariti-e           8,580   0.1   8.2        9,006   0.1   5.0        9,329   0.1   3.6         9,772    0.1   4.7       10,253    0.1    4.9       10,826          l    11    2672    -    11.    10 40        1.80
Aviotion           1,481    -    (18.3)     1,629    -     10.0      1,753    -      7.6       1,941    -    10.7        2,146    -      10.6       2,395
Patss-A (ale.)
Total              87,626  100.0   2.6      94,023  100.0   7.3    101,921  100.0   8.4       110,788  100.0   8.7       120,537  1000.    8.8    130,903  100.0    8.6    141,375  100.0   8.0    8.50         1.61
Railtaya          21,640   24.7   1.2      23,401   24.9   8.1      25,654   25.2   9.6       28,177   25.5   9.8       31,004   22.7   10.0       33,958   25.9    9.5      36,990   26.1   8.9    9.59       1.71
Suboays              926  11    2.4        1,362    1.4  47.1       1,517    1.5   4.4        2,227    2.0  46.8        4,084    3.4   83.4        8,160    6.2   99.9       9,745    6.9  19.4   48.22    10.52
Higheapy          64,131   73.1   3.3      68,247   32.6   6.4      73,669   72.3   7.9       74,210   71.5   7.5       84,172   69.8    6.3       87,391   66.8    3.8      93,115   65.9   6.5    6.41       1.45
Marttiee             401   0.5   3.9          426   0.5   6.2          443   0.4   4.0           464   0.4   0.7           489    0.4    5.4          516   0.4    5.5          549   0.4   6.4    5.20        1.37
Aviatito             528   0.6  (17.0)        587   0.6  11.2          638   0.6   8.7           710   0.6  11.3           788   0.7   11.0           876   0.7    11.2         976   0.7  11.4   10.70        1.85
/t  Figures in hrackett ( ) indi-cte negative growth.
Sorce: "Daft" for pre-pa-tlon ef 5th Fie Social tsd Eoonerlc Plan (Ta...p-ort Sector). Augutt 1981, 1OT, Korea, p. 17.
Septe-ber 1982



KOREA
PROHVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Fortcast for DR---11C Freight Transport (1980-86)
1980                      1981                      1982                      1983                        1984                       1985                        (986             1982-86  1986-80
%            2                                       7;                                       7                          7.                                       X            Av-erge   Mal1t-
Sectors                      Sb-ar  GCo-th             Share  Growth             Share  Growth               Share  Growth              Share  Gro-th              Shore  Growth               Shar-  Growth   ro,wth   pi-e
To.. ('000)
TOta1            172,776.8  100.0  (L8.47  182,279.4  100.0   5.5   194,856.0  100.0    6.9    208,691.3  100.0   7.1    223,717.4  100.0    7.2    240,048.7  100.0    7.3    257,812.0  100.0    7.4          7.18     1.49
Railtwy.         49,008.0   28.4  (3.7)   51,225.0   28.1    4.5    53,680.0   27.5    4.8       56,161.0  26.9    4.6      58,916.0   26.3    4.9     61,933.0   25.8    5.1      65.386.0   25.4    5.6      5.00     1.33
HRihwoyO        I04,526.0  60.3  (26.1)  110,826.0  60.8    6.0   119,573.0   61.4    7.9    129,391.0   67.0    8.2    139,995.0  62.6    8.2    151,495.0   63.1    8.2    163,870.0   63.5    8.2          8.14      1.37
M8r8ti-e         19,230.0   11.1    -      20,215.0   11.1    5.1    21,589.0   11.1    6.8      23.124.0   11.1   7.1      24,790.0   11.1    7.2     26,603.0   11.1    7.3      28,537.01  11.1    7.3      7.14     1.48
Aviatton             12.8    -     (7.9)       13.4    -      4.7        14.3    -      6.7          15.3    -      7.0         16.4    -      7.2         (7.7    -       7.9         19.0    -       7.3     7.23     1.48
TeaR-km (mEa)
Total             23,186.1  100.0  (R.3)   24,322.3  100.0    4.9    25,781.8  100.0    6.8       27,457.2  100.0   6.5      29,242.7  100.0   6.5      31,201.5  100.0   6.7       33,354.0  (00.0    6.9      6.52     1.44
Railway,         10,798.0   46.6  (2.6)   11,267.0  46.3    4.3    11,756.0   45.6    4.3        12.329.0   44.9    4.9     12.938.0)  44.3    4.9     13,603.0   43.6    5.1      14,357.0   43.1    5.5     4.97      1.33
Hlighaayw         4.920.0   21.2  (36.4)    5,235.0   21.6    6.4     5,780.0   22.2    9.0      6,246.0   22.8   9.4        6,818.0   23.3    9.2      7,461.0   23.9    9.4       8,153.0   24.4    9.3     9.26      1.66
Ma-itie           7,463.0   32.2  (0.7)    7,815.0   32.1    4.7      8,312.0   33.2    6.4       8,876.0   32.3   6.8       9,480.0   32.3    6.8     10,100.0   52.5    6.9      10,836.0   32.5    7.7      6.75     1.45
Avit-ai.              5.1    -      2.0         5.3    -      3.9         5.8    -      9.4           6.2    -      4.9          6.7    -      8.1          7.5    -      11.9          8.0    -      6.7      8.58     1.57
/a  Fitgrea Jn bracketc ( ) itdi.t ewegattee grotth.
So-rc:  "rl-ft" for pre-partion of 5th FPee Social aod R-omic Fla (Trawapart Serter).  Agett 1981. NIT, Korea, p. 18.
Septeber 1982



- 35 -
Table 1.5
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Comparison of Investment Plans (1977-81 and 1982-86)
(Billion won)
The Fourth Plan (1977-81) /a /c                   The Fifth Plan (1982-86) /b
Investment requirements                         Investment requirements
Foreign                 Composi-                 Foreign               Composi-
Domestic    capital                 tion ratio   Donestic    capital               tion ratio
Transport investment               capital   (USS mln)     Total         (%)        capital   (US$ mln)    Total         (7)
Railway                             289.9        231.7       402.1        14.5       894.3       715.6     1,330.8       13.4
(719.0)     (574.6)     (997.2)
Highway                            1,141.0       174.9     1,225.6        44.0     3,568.9       245.8     3,718.8       37.4
(2,829.7)     (433.8)   (3,039.5)
Road /d                            373.1       174.9       457.8        16.4     1,175.0       220.8     1,309.7       13.2
(925.3)     (451.2)   (1,135.3)
Vehicles /e                        741.2                   741.2        26.6     2,307.6         -       2,307.6       23.2
(1,838.2)       (-)    (1,838.2)
Others                              26.6         -          26.6         1.0        86.3        25.0        101.5       1.0
(66.0)        -         (66.0)
Ports and ships                      557.4       902.3       994.1        35.7     1,693.2     1,576.9     2,655.1       26.7
(1,382.4)   (2,237.7)   (2,465.4)
Ships                              358.8       773.6       733.3        26.3     1,228.6     1,365.2     2,061.4       20.7
(889.8)   (1,918.5)   (1,818.6)
Ports and facilities               200.6       128.7       260.8         9.4       464.5       211.7       593.7        6.0
(497.5)     (319.2)     (646.8)
Aviation                              51.4        15.5        58.9         2.1       175.4       687.0       594.5        6.0
(127.5)      (38.4)     (146.1)
Subway                                54.1        97.0       101.0         3.6     1,324.5       509.8     1,635.0       16.5
(134.2)     (240.6)     (250.5)
Waterway                               1.9         -            1.9        0.1         5.0         -            5.0       -
(4.7)        -          (4.7)
Total                        2,095.7      1,421.4     2,783.6       100.0     7,661.4     3,735.0     9,939.7      100.0
(5,197.3)   (3,525.1)   (6,903.3)
Total capital expenditure         14,188.0    10,000.0    19,028.0                59,000.0    23,673.4    72,100.0
(35,186.2)  (24,800.0)  (47,189.4)
Total transport investment
as % of total capital
expenditure                         14.8        14.2        14.6                    13.0        15.8         13.8
/a  The Fourth Plan figures are in 1975 constant value.
/b  The Fifth Plan figures are In 1980 constant value.
/c  The figures in parentheses indicate the 1980 constant value.
/d  Including construction, repair and loan repayment of national roads only.
/e  Including new vehicles additional to the fleet and replacements for scrapped vehicles.
Note: GNP deflator: 1975 = 100, 1980 = 247.9.
Sources:  (1)  The Fourth Five-Year Economic Development Plan (1977-81), EPB, Korea, 1976, pp. 140-141, pp. 152-153.
(2)  The Fifth Economic and Social Develpoment Five-Year Plan - Transport Part for Implementation (1982-86), MOT,
Korea, October 1981, p. 51.
(3)  Transport Part of the Investment Plan, EPB, Korea, October 12, 1981, pp. 17, 26, 8.



- 36 -                               Table 2.1
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Public Roads Network, 1962-81 /a
(km)
National roads /b       Provincial roads              Gun roads
Years        Paved  Gravel  Total  Paved  Gravel   Total  Paved  Gravel   Total
First FYP
1962        857  4,886   5,743        73  10,470  10,543       -         -  10,000,#'c
1963         863  4,947   5,810       54  11,244  11,298       -         -    n.a.
1964         963  4,936   5,899       54  11,343  11,397       -         -    n.a.
1965       1,042  4,857   5,899       71  12,267  12,338       -         -    n.a.
1966       1,349  6,837   8,186       31  10,364  10,395       -         -    n.a.
Second FYP
1967      1,442  6,744   8,186        52  10,600  10,652       -         -    n.a.
1968       1,540  6,626   8,166       74  10,597  10,671       -         -    n.a.
1969      2,110  6,461   8,571    134  10,703  10,837          -         -    n.a.
1970      2,461  6,197   8,658    202  10,692  10,894          -         -    n.a.
1971      2,943  5,843   8,786    254  10,524  10,774          -         -    n.a.
Third FYP
1972      3,319  5,610   8,929    283  10,517  10,800          -         -    n.a.
1973      3,868  5,419   9,287    503  10,389  10,892          -         -    n.a.
1974      4,070  5,217   9,287    639  10,250  10,889          -         -    n.a.
1975      4,748  4,612   9,360    719  10,092  10,811          -         -    n.a.
1976      4,874  4,486   9,360    811  10,057  10,868          -         -    n.a,
Fourth FYP
1977      5,434  4,008   9,442    922   9,933  10,855   384   12,125  12,509
1978      6,200  3,257   9,457    998   9,821  10,819   442   12,061  12,503
1979      6,224  3,233   9,457  1,169   9,819  10,988   466   12,022  12,488
1980      6,772  2,685   9,457  1,385   9,636  11,021   564   11,948  12,512
1981 /d   7,571  5,864  13,435    759   8,932   9,691   546   10,933  11,479
(56%)  (44%)  (100%)   (8%)   (92%)  (100%)   (5%)   (95%)  (100%)
/a  In addition there are 15,508 km of city roads (mostly streets), 9,304 km in
the special cities of Seoul, Busan, Daegu and Incheon, and 6,204 km in all
cities; and also village access roads of which 52,444 km had been con-
structed and improved under the Seamaul Movement at the end of 1980.
/b  Includes roads under the jurisdiction of KHC, totalling 1,245 km in 1981.
/c  Length not available (n.a.) before 1977 as city roads were tabulated jointly
with gun roads. Length of gun roads in 1962 believed to have been about
10,000 km.
/d  Road networks were reclassified during the early part of 1981.
Source: Ministry of Construction.
June 1982



- 37 -                         Table 2.2
Page 1 of 3
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Registered Motor Vehicles (1962-80)
Trucks   Buses  Motor-  others
Years                             Cars /a      /b       /c    cycles    /d        Total
First FYP
1962                              8,733   13,093   6,747           -  2,241   30,814
1963                              9,569   13,929   8,132           -  2,598   34,228
1964                             11,409   14,951   8,617           -  2,836   37,813
1965                             13,001   16,015   9,316           -  3,179   41,511
1966                             17,502   19,432  10,888           -  2,338   50,160
Second FYP
1967                             23,235   22,955  11,499    1,186  1,822   60,697
1968                             33,112   31,582  12,786    1,378  2,093   80,951
1969                             50,299   40,134  14,237       1,675  2,324  108,669
1970                             60,677   48,901  15,831    2,711  1,251  129,371
1971                             67,582   53,405  17,411    3,902  2,037  144,337
Third FYP
1972                             70,244   55,116  17,550    4,216  2,909  150,035
1973                             78,334   64,584  18,871    5,407  3,518  170,714
1974                             76,462   76,833  20,060    6,039  4,150  183,544
1975                             84,212   82,862  21,818    6,594  5,035  200,521
1976                             96,099   93,885  23,643    7,342  5,351  226,320
Fourth FYP
1977                            125,613  118,150  26,710    7,440  4,839  282,752
1978                            184,886  161,886  30,597   12,020  7,167  396,556
1979                            241,422  206,822  37,697  181,976  8,437  676,854
1980                            249,102  226,940  42,463  216,498  9,224  744,227
Average Annual Growth (% p.a.)
1962-67                            21.7      11.9    11.3          -       -     14.5
1967-72                            24.8      19.2      8.8      19.6       -     19.8
1972-77                            12.3      16.4      8.8      12.0       -     13.5
1977-80                            25.6      24.3    16.7    207.6         -     38.1
Fleet Composition (%)
1962                               28.3      42.5    21.8    ---- 7.4 ---            -
1967                               38.3      37.8    18.9        2.9    2.1        100
1972                               46.8      36.9    11.7        3.8    1.8        100
1977                               44.4      41.8      9.5       2.6    1.7        100
1980                               33.5      30.5      5.7      29.1    1.2       100
/a  Includes taxis and government vehicles (see details, Table 2.2, p. 2).
lb  Includes public carriers as well as private and government-owned trucks (see
details, Table 2.2 pg. 3).
/c  Includes microbuses.
/d  Public service and special vehicles; includes motorcycles prior to 1967.
September 1982



- 38 -                            Table 2.2
page 2 of 3
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COJNTY ROADS PROJECT
Cars by Categories of Ownership (1967-80)
('000 vehicles)
Commercial
Years                            Government       Private   (mostly taxis)    Total
Second FYP
1967                               2.2             9.9          11.1           23.2
1968                               2.8            14.4          15.9           33.1
1969                               3.1           23.7           23.5           50.3
1970                               3.6            28.7          28.4           60.7
1971                               4.0            34.0          29.6           67.6
Third FYP
1972                               4.5            36.4          29.3           70.2
1973                               5.0            43.4          29.9            78.3
1974                               4.9            44.6          27.0            76.5
1975                               5.0            50.1          29.1           84.2
1976                               5.2            61.6          29.3            96.1
Fourth FYP
1977                               5.7           85.1           34.8          125.6
1978                               6.1           128.8          50.0           184.9
1979                               6.8           172.9          61.7          241.4
1980                               7.8           178.5          62.8          249.1
Fleet Composition (%)
1967                               9.5            42.7          47.8          100.0
1972                               6.4            51.9          41.7          100.0
1977                               4.3           68.2           27.5          100.0
1980                               3.1            71.7          25.2          100.0
Cars per 1,000 Population  Population (mln.)   Private ('000)            Total ('000)
1967                               30.1                0.19                0.76
1972                               32.5                0.55                1.64
1977                               36.0                1.93                3.28
1980                               37.9                4.71                6.57
Source: Ministry of Transportation.
September 1982



Table 2.2
Page 3 of 3
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Trucks by Categories of Ownership (1967-80)
('000 vehicles)
Year                          Government    Private /a  Commercial /b    Total
Second FYP
1967                            2.2            5.6           15.1          23.0
1968                            2.7            7.6          21.3            31.6
1969                            2.8           11.0          26.3            40.1
1970                            3.0           15.2           30.7           48.9
1971                            3.3           18.5          31.6             5.34
Third FYP
1972                            3.6           21.5          30.0            55.1
1973                            4.9           26.8           32.9          64.6
1974                            4.9           45.3          36.6           76.8
1975                            5.0           39.9          38.0            82.9
1976                            5.9           49.4          38.6            93.9
Fourth FYP
1977                            7.3           69.5          41.4           118.2
1978                            7.6          105.4          48.9           161.9
1979                            8.3          146.2           52.3         206.8
1980                            8.9          165.4          52.7          226.9
Fleet Composition (%)
1967                           10.0           24.3          65.7           100.0
1972                            6.5           39.0          54.5           100.0
1977                            6.2           58.8           35.0          100.0
1980                            3.9           72.9          23.2           100.0
/a For carrying own goods.
/b Common carriers.
Source: Ministry of Transportation.
November 1981



- 40 -                            Table 2.3
KOREA
PROVINCIAL ANiD COVTNTY ROADS PROJECT
Korean Motor Vehicle Production (1962-80)
Motor-
Year                  Cars         Buses       Trucks        cycles        Total
Act uai
i rst FYP
1962                991           42          884             -        1,917
1963              1,430          233          143            --         1,806
1964                179          405          108             -          692
1965                166        1,251          965             -        2,382
1966              3,398        1,482          559             -        5,439
Second FYP
1967              5,033          941        1,512        4,591        12,077
1968             11,421        1,632        5,212        16,569       34,834
1969             10,727        1,884        9,626       13,735        35,972
1970             13,636        3,690      13,032        16,242        46,600
1971             11,870        3,059       8,072        21,317        35,318
Third FYP
1972              9,577        2,568       6,506           773        19,424
1973             12,130        Q,400       10,176       13,851        39,557
1974              9,247        3,398       19,808       11,495        43,948
1975             17,862        3,837      18,168        11,666        51,533
1976             25,304        3,481      20,312        16,798        65,895
Fourth FYP
1977             43,981        5,453      35,263        32,629       117,326
1978             86,823        7,279      63,446        70,654       228,202
1979            113,564       12,307      76,661       100,496       303,028
1980             57,225       12,053      51,660       110,773       231,711
Source:  ,Ministry of Transportation.
S eptember 1982



- 41 -                           Table 2.4
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption (1962-80) /a
(000 kiloliters)
Year                                       Gasoline         Diesel
First FYP
1962                                        108             307
1963                                         97             358
1964                                        102             386
1965                                        223             507
1966                                        336             558
Second FYP
1967                                        481             765
1968                                        573           1,251
1969                                        748           1,507
1970                                        865           1,775
1971                                        992           2,099
Third FYP
1972                                        976           2,338
1973                                      1,040           2,838
1974                                        698           2,918
1975                                        664           3,328
1976                                        838           4,103
Fourth FYP
1977                                      1,105           4,767
1978                                      1,258           5,558
1979                                      1,373           5,915
1980                                      1,116           6,020
Average Annual Growth (% p.a.)
1962-67                                    34.8            20.0
1967-72                                    15.2            25.4
1972-77                                     2.5            15.3
1977-80                                       -             0.5
/a Gasoline consumption is totally for vehicles, but diesel
consumption includes 20-30% of other consumption.
Source: Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
September 1982



- 42 -                           Table 2.5
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Commercial Licensing of Road Transport Companies (1974-80)
Taxis
Number of           Number of              Owner-               Total
Year             companies             vehicles             drivers              taxis
1974                 669               27,000                    -              27,000
1976                 711               28,240                  860              29,100
1977                 722               29,830               4,770               34,60C0
1980               1,517               53,590               15,960              69,550
Trucks
Area license              Route license                  Total
Number of  Trucks         Number of   Trucks         Number of  Trucks
Year           companies  ('000)         companies   ('000)         companies  ('000)
1974              n.a.       n.a.           n.a.       n.a.            674       36.6
1976              725       37.0             32        1.6             757       38.6
1977              740       40.6             32        1.6             772       42.2
1980              948       56.9             30        1.9             978       58.8
Buses
Intracity          Intercity ja           Charter               Total
Number of   Buses  Number of   Buses  Number of   Buses  Number of   Buses,
Year  companies  ('000)  companies  ('000)  companies  ('000)  companies  ('000)
1974     n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       n.a.     n.a.       n.a.      341       16.5
1976     199        9.5       144        8.7        93        1.3      436       19.5
1977     204       10.2       150        9.5       108        1.9      462       21.6
1980     n.a.      14.9       n.a.      11.7       153        2.8      650       29.4
/a  Includes companies operating services on the expressways (12, 11 and 10 in
1974, 1977 and 1980).
Source: Ministry of Transportation.
September 1982



- 43 -                           Table 2.6
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Road Authorities and Agencies
Toll      National       Provincial        City/county
highways      roads         roads /a          (gun) roads
Planning                 MOC          MOC            9 provincial      City/county
construction      construccion
bureaus (PCB)    divisions
/b                (CCD)
Construction
Design &               MOC/Korea   MOC through   PCB /b              CCD
supervision           Highway      its 5
Corp.       regional
(KHC)       construction
offices
(RCOs)
Financing                MOC/KHC /c  MOC             Provinces with   City/county
Ministry of       with provin-
Home Affairs      cial grants
(MORA) grants;
also from MOC
budget for spe-
cial projects
Maintenance
Execution Authority/
Agency
Paved               KHC          NHMO /d        PCB              CCD
Unpaved             -            PCB _d         PCB               CCD
Financing           KHC         MOC             Provinces with   City/county
MORA grants       with provin-
cial grants
/a The special cities of Seoul and Busan (city construction bureaus) have func-
tions similar to provincial authorities (provincial construction bureaus).
/b The MOO has so far handled the planning, design and supervision of construc--
tion or major improvement of a number of provincial roads, particularly
those for which external financing is involved.
/c KHC was established in January 1969, but has not so far financed any con-
struction.
/d MOC has responsibility for maintenance of all national roads; it directly
maintains paved national roads through its 19 national highway maintenance
offices (NHMOs) under its five regional construction offices (RCOs); it
delegates maintenance of the unpaved national roads to the provincs (PCBs)
with financial grants from the MOC-s budget, and assistance provided by its
TCMOs.
Source: Ministry of Construction.
October 1982



- 44 -                                  Table 2.7
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Fifth Five-Year Plan: Expenditures for Roads (1982-86)
(In 1980 prices)
Total
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986                 USS     Qi:y.
(W billion) -                         W bln. mln. /a   (kn)
Central C-overnment
Financing
Construction &
Improvement
Expressways (KHC) /b        38.5   52.3   17.4   37.8   45.4    291.4    477.7    360
National Highways           99.5  101.3   65.4  133.3  153.4    552.9    906.4           -
Paving                    93.4   96.4   53.4   94.4  109.9    447.5    733.6  2,421
Widening                   6.1    4.9   12.0   38.9   43.5    105.4    172.8   :1.73
Bridges (length in m)        3.9    3.7    6.8    8.4    6.2        29.0      47.5  7,591
Provincial roads paving    2.9    2.9    2.6    9.4    8.0          25.8      42.3      82
Subtotal              144.8  160.2  192.2  188.9  213.0    899.1  1,473.9          -
Others
National highway
maintenance               28.6   31.6   37.1   43.5   50.1    190.9    313.0           -
Overhead & studies          10.5   10.7   12.3   14.4    7.6        55.5      91.0      -
Loan amortization           26.4   33.1   33.3   34.7   36.7    164.2    269.1           -
Subtotal              65.5   75.4   82.7   92.6   94.4    410.6    673.1           -
Total                210.3  235.6  274.9  281.5  307.4  1,309.7  2,147.0           -
Local government financing
(including maintenance) /c   91.7   91.8   91.8   91.8   91.8    458.9    752.3  2,452
GRAND TOTAL          302.0  327.4  366.7  373.3  399.2  1,768.6  2,899.3           -
/a Exchange rate 1980: US$1 = W 610.
/b  Excluding maintenance expenditures of KHC.
/c Includes provinces and counties but excludes cities and special cities estimated at
W 1,665 billion.
Sources: MOC and MOHA.
September 1982



- 45 -                              Table 2.8
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Fourth Five Year Plan: Expenditures on Roads (1977-81) /a
(Won billion)
Total
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981  1977-81           %
National & Express Highways
Administration                  9.8   12.2   16.6   24.8   35.8         99.2        5.2
Construction                   80.9   70.0  105.0  117.4  181.3    554.6           28.8
Maintenance                    21.0   25.7   43.4   55.5   80.6    226.2/b   11.8
Subtotal                  111.7  107.9  165.0  197.7  297.7    880.0          45.8
Others
Provincial, Gun (County)
& City Roads
Administration                0.7    0.8    1.9    2.8    2.8          9.0       0.4
Construction                 44.9   32.9   51.5   92.1   56.5    277.9          14.5
Maintenance                   2.6    3.1    6.1   14.6   15.5         41.9        2.2
Subtotal                  48.2   36.8   59.5  109.5   74.8    328.8           17.1
Special Cities
Administration                -       1.8    2.7   32.9   21.3        58.6       3.0
Construction                 67.7  115.1   32.4  159.7  131.0    606.0          31.5
Maintenance                   1.9    3.4    3.0    4.7   36.6         49.6        2.6
Subtotal                   69.6  120.3  138.1  197.3  188.9    714.2          37.1
Total, Current Prices  229.5  265.0  362.6  504.5  561.4  1,923.0            100.0
Total, 1975 Prices /c  167.6  160.5  184.1  203.5  192.8    908.5
Total, 1980 Prices /c  415.6  397.9  456.3  504.5  477.9  2,252.2
/a  Including MOC, KHC and Government.
/b  Maintenance of KHC network amounted to W 128 billion or 57%.
/c GNP deflator: 1975 = 100, 1977 = 136.9, 1978 = 165.1, 1979 = 197.0, 1980 =
247.9, 1981 = 291.2.
September 1982



-46-                                   Table 2 .9
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Expenditures on Roads (1962-1981) /a
(million won)
Total           Total          Total             Total
First Plan    Second Plan   Third Plan          Fourth Plan
1962-66   %   1967-71   %   1972-76   %          1977-81      %
Government Expenditures
on National Highways/b
Administration                    74      1       946    1    5,887    2        99,241      8.2
Construction                   3,811    53   89,022   72  179,424   66    554,553    45A9
Maintenance/c                    193      3    1,448    1   11,479    4    226,151    18.7
Subtotal                     4.078    57   91,416   74  196,790   72    879,945    72.8
Expenditures on Provincial
Gun (County), and City
Roads /d /e
Administration                     -      -         -    -         -    -        8,979      0.7
Construction                   2,174    31   26,286   21   65,150   24    277,984    23.)
Maintenance /f                   851    12    5,737    5   11,516    4          41,930      3.5
Subtotal                     3,025    43   32,023   26   76,666   28    328,898/g  27.2
Total                     7,103   100  123,439  100  273,456  100  1,208,838           100
/a  At current prices.
/b  Includes roads under the jurisdiction of K11C.
/c  Does not include funds contributed by provinces for the maintenance of national
highways.
/d  Seoul City excepted in First to Third Plans, and Special Cities (Seoul, Busan, Daegu
and Incheon) excepted in the Fourth Plan.
/e  Includes Government grants.
/f  Maintenance includes expenditures on national highways, estimated up to 70% of
the total but does not include the value of voluntary labor provided for all
highways.
/g  Investments under the Fourth Plan for the Special Cities amount to an additional
W 714.2 billion and would represent 37%, if taken into account, of total road
expenditures.
Source:  Ministry of Construction, Ministry of Home Affairs.
September, 1982



- 47 -                       Table 2.10
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Expenditures on Roads (1981)
(Million won)
Local
govern-
MOC /a       KHC /b      ment /c          Total      X
Expressways
Administration                   -        4,178            -          4,178
Construction               20,000        21,054            -         41,054
Maintenance                      -       41,615             -        41,615
Total                 20,000       66,847             -         86,847   15.4
National Highways
Administration             30,691/d           -          898         31,589
Construction              100,527             -       39,687        140,214
Maintenance                32,596             -        6,431         39,027
Total                163,814            -       47,016         210,830   37.5
Special City Roads /e
Administration                   -            -       21,299         21,299
Construction                     -            -      131,036        131,036
Maintenance                      -            -       36,605         36,605
Total                      -            -      188,940         188,940   33.6
Provincial Roads
Administration                   -            -        1,713          1,713
Construction                2,719             -       26,686         29,405
Maintenance                      -            -        6,835           6,835
Total                  2,719             -      35,234          37,953    6.7
City Roads
Administration                   -            -          651             651
Construction                     -            -       14,206         14,206
Maintenance                      -            -        5,706           5,706
Total                      -             -      20,563          20,563    3.6
Gun Roads
Administration                   -            -          409             409
Construction                     -            -       12,935         12,935
Maintenance                      -            -        2,976           2,976
Total                      -            -       16,320          16,320    2.9
Total
Administration             30,691         4,178       24,970         59,839
Construction              123,246        21,054      224,550        368,850
Maintenance                 32,596       41,615       58,553        132,764
Total                186,533       66,847      308,073         561,453  100
/a  Ministry of Construction.
lb  Korea Highway Corporation.
7h  Nine provincial governments and four special cities.
7R  Reimbursement cost W 24,190 million for previous loan is included.
7e  Seoul, Busan, Daegu and Incheon special cities.
September, 1982



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Road User Charges (1972-81)
(W million)
Third FYP                                                              Fourth FYP
Revenue                     1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1972-76     1977           1978          1979           1980           1981         1977-81
National Taxes
Fuel taxes               27,717   36,582   83,717   95,016  114,874   357,906   133,082             120,536        210,606       362,714        356,124       1,183,062
Gasoline tax            (19,593) (25,821) (57,236) (60,026) (72,185) (234,861)  (94,149)/a (104,209)/a  (184,352)/a  (310,394)/a  (290,122)/a   (983,226)/a
Diesel tax                (8,124) (10,761) (26,481) (34,990) (42,689) (123,045)  (38,933)7a  (16,327)7a   (26,254)Ta   (52,320)Ta   (66,002)7a   (199,836)a
Transport tax             16,000   18,801   13,484   16,868   21,262    86,415    15,054 7T                -             -              -              -               -
Commodity tax /c           3,535    6,613    7,499   11,764   16,642    46,053           9,330 T7    28,279         35,798        20,600         19,184         128,245
Subtotal               47,252   61,996  104,700  123,648  152,778   490,374   157,466             148,815       246,404        383,314        375,308       1,311,307
Local Taxes
Vehicle tax               7,191    7,866   12,016   12,353   14,137    53,563    17,900              26,518         51,416        60,866         61,014         217,714
(incl. suircharge)
License fee /d             1,661    1,804    1,784    2,092    2,388          9,729      3,949        7,735          7,845         8,340          8,665          36,534       F
Acquisition tax /d             -    1,622    2,643    3,708    4,636         12,609      6,143       15,388         21,110        19,393         19,005          81,039
Subtotal                8,852   11,292   16,443   18,153   21,161    75,901           27,992       49,636        80,137         88,599         88,734         335,058
Tolls                        4,995    6,276    6,887   10,189   14,531    42,878    17,915             25,608         39,242        45,411         59,585         187,761
Total                  61,099   79,564  128,030  151,990  188,470   609,153   203,373             224,059       366,017        517,324        523,627       1,834,100
Overall expenditures
on roads /e              68,300   68,000   83,800  149,400  145,900   515,400   229,470             265,040        362,571       504,560        561,453       1,923,054
/a Special excise tax excluding Value Added Tax (VAT).
/b  These taxes were incorporated in the newly adopted Value Added Tax from July 1, 1977 when the Korean Tax system wMs changed.
/c Estimated 10% of total commodity tax.
d  Revenues were combined prior to 1973.  Both license fee and acquisition tax figures are estimates of the portion of the revenues from these taxes
attributable to road vehicles.
le Economic Statistics Yearbook 1982, The Bank of Korea, Korea, pp. 86-87.
Sources:  Ministry of Construction, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Home Affairs.
September 1982



-49 -                                 Table 2.12
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECr
Pump Price of Major Petroleum Products in Korea
(1980-82)
(Won/liter) /a
Refinery's
selling price
Ex-
refinery    Tax              Agent            Service station
price   included       Fee    Price         Fee       Price
Premium gasoline         321.28    820.90       23.15   844.05       35.95      880
(944.04)                                  (1,010)
[1,060]
Regular gasoline         249.91    630.34       17.23   657.57       22.43      680
(261.00)  (660.34)                                     (700)
[276.001                                               [740]
Kerosene                 180.12    202.96        9.30   212.26        13.74      226
(242.92)                                    (268)
Diesel                   160.30    193.84        8.90   202.03       12.97      215
(197.00)  (231.97)                                     (255)
[216.001                                               [286]
/a - Figures of 1980 are of November 19.
- Figures in parentheses are 1981 prices (April 18).
- Figures in brackets [ ] are 1982 prices (May 31).
Sources: MOER, and mission to Korea.
October 1982



- 50 -                                                       Table 3.1
Page 1 of S
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
County (Gun) Road Improvement Program
Construction         Traffic (AADT)             Internal rate of return
Section                                                   costs (W nln                1985   Growth              With-
Sur-                               Length  Stand-        at April        1981   fore-   rate    With        out        Senatti it
No.  sec.        Prom - to                (km)   ard /a   1982 prices)   Actual  cast    (%)             time/b  time/c  1i7d  2,_FlT
1          Gyeonggi Do
1-1        Dang llyeon - Gung Ri            6.0    P.2*            548         490      892      8       46.5      45      40   38   31
1-2        Ha Bug - Geum An                 2.6    P.1             255         195      326      6       20.9      19      18   17   12
1-3        An Seong - Seo Un               12.5    P.2*          1,762                                   33.3      31      28   27   21
A                                    (2.0)                              470      806      7
B                                  (10.5)                               305      556      7
1-4        I Cheon - Sin Dun                9.0    G.2             739         120      230      5       35.3      33      30   28   22
1-5        Yong In - Jeong Su              10.0                    712                                   30.0      28      25   24   19
A                                    (3.6)   P.2*                       425      700      7
B                                   (6.4)   G.2                          80      139      5
1-6        Bal An - Sin Wang                6.6    P.1             844                                   29.9      28      25   24   18
A                                    (3.2)                              190      365       5
B                                    (3.4)                              100      171      5
1-7        So Ha - TI Jig                   6.3    P.3*          1,144         250      627      9       45.4      40      39   37   28
1-9        An Gol - Gyeong Sin             11.1     P.1            954                                   22.6      19      19   18   12
A                                   (5.1)                               100      210      6
B                                   (6.0)                               100      171      6
1-11       Deog So - Weol Mun               6.5                    904                                   34.5      32      29   28   22
A                                    (2.3)   P.3*                       500      852      7
B                                   (4.2)   P.1*                        170      354      7
1-12       Jeung Mal - Bulam Gul            3.8    P.3*            623         600   1,130       9       37.4      34      32   31   24
1-13       Su Saeg - Yong Du                4.8    P.3*            863                                   42.6      39      37   35   27
A                                    (2.4)                              300      791      9
B                                   (2.4)                               150      404      9
1-14       Gimpo - Geum Dam                 5.3    P.2*            742         460      731      7       20.1      19      17   16   12
1-15       Yang-Gog - Dae Myeong            7.4     P.2*         1,293         600   1,006       7       33.5      31      28   27   21
1-16       Su Cheon - Sin Ri                5.4    P.2*            875         530      794      5       22.4      20      19   18   13
1-17       Geum Chon - Mun San              9.2     P.2*         1,225                                   26.0      25      22   21   16
A                                   (3.7)                               350      569      5
B                                   (5.5)                               200      340      5
1-18       Po Cheon - Jig Du                5.0    P.2*            504         300      516      7       28.0      26      24   22   18
1-19       Ga Pyeong - Mog Dong             8.9     P.3*           917         770   1,110       5       34.7      34      29   28   22
Subtotal                 120.2                 14,904
2          Gangweon Do
2-1        Jin Bu - Su Hang                11.4    G.2           1,066         120      231      5       28.5      27      24   23   18
2-2        Weon Ju - Go San                 9.9     P.1*         1,196         225      481      7       45.7      41      39   37   28
2-3        U Du - Jung Ri                  12.4                  1,027                                   32.8      30      28   27   20
1-A                                  (2.3)   P.2*                        380      595      7
1-B                                   (3.2)   p.1*                       110      206      6
1-C                                  (3.8)   P.1*                        110      250      6
1-D                                  (2.3)   P.2*                        250      570      8
2                                   (0.7)   P.2*                        255      434      8
2-4        Eui Am Dam - 5in Mae            14.3    P.2*          2,050                                   20.9      20      18   17   13
A                                    (3.1)                              180      360      7
B                                   (6.2)                                60      134      6
2-5        Song U - Im Dang                 9.9     P.1            879                                   16.8      16      14   13    9
A                                    (2.4)                              345      556      6
B                                   (7.5)                               19 0     288      6
2-6        Do Limit - Sa Chang             11.9     P.1*         1,739                                   28.7      26      24   23   18
A                                    (8.4)                              230      508      7
B                                   (3.5)                               410      620      7
2-7        Mun TIye - Hwa Ji               16.9     P.2*         2,477                                   22.4      21      19   18   14
1                                   (4.4)                               315      508      5
2                                  (10.8)                               370      620      8
3                                   (1.7)                               226      375      6
Subtotal                  86.7                 10,434



- 5  -                                                     Table 3.1
Page 2 Of 5
Construction           Traffic (AADT)              Internal rate of return
Section                                                       costs (W mln                  1985   Growth                With-
Sub-                                  Length  Stand-         at April         1981    fore-    rate       With      out        Sensitivity
No.  sec.         From - to                  (kmn)   ard /a    1982 prices)    Actual  cast            (%        time/b  time/c   i/d  2/e  3/f
3           Chungcheong Rug Do
3-1         Bong Gye -Don Hwa                  7.7      P.1             944         150       290       7       22.0        19      19    18    13
3-2         Tee Seong -Chu Jeom               14.5      G.2           1,149          95       152       5        16.8       14      14    13     9
3-3         Cho Pheong -Deog San               7.1      P.1             714         140       250       6        19.5      18       17    15    11
3-4         Mog Haeng -Mog Cye                12.6      G.2             880          60       112       5        17.8      16       15    14     9
3-5         Yang Chon -Dog Eon                14.6                    1,318                                     27.3       25       23    22    17
A                                      (6.2)    P.1                          105       194       7
8                                      (8.4)   G.2                           1D5       210       7
3-6         Byeol Bang -Yu Am                 11.5      P.1          1,439           90       193       6       27.0       23       23    22    15
Subtotal                    68.1                   6,444
4           Chungcheong Nam Do
4-1         Geum An - Baeg Am                   5.7     P.1*            581         260       481i      8       36.1        32      31   29    22
4-2         Non San - Ga Ye Gog                8.0      P.1*            853         240       411       7       24.5       21       21   20    14
4-3         Non San - Seong Dong               8.7                      767                                     25.8       24       22    21    16
A                                      (6.0)    P.1*                         230       367       6
B                           ~~~~~~~(2.7)    P.2*                   420       671       7
4-4         Gu Am - Nae Dong                   7.3                      698         250       466       8       33.6       31       29    27    21
A                                      (1.0)    P.3*
B                                      (6.3)    P.2*
4-5         Ga Su Weon - Pheong Chon          11.3                    1,244                                      34.2      30       29    28    21
A                                      (1.1)    P.3*                       1,220    1,748        7
B                                     (10.3)    P.1*                         29 5      526       7
4-6         Tan Cheon -Seog Seong             10.5      0.2             724         150       273       7       32.8       31       28    27    21
4-7         Deog San   G al San               12.7      P.2*          1,582                                      43.4       41      37    35   28
A                                      (4.0)                                 435       803       8
B                                      (8.7)                                 345       699      8
4-8         Tong Po -Bag San                    5.3     P.1             573         230       348       5       15.5        14      13    12     9
4-9         Cheon An -Haeng Jeong             15.5      P.1*          1,568                                     28.6        26      24    23    18
A                                     (10.9 )                                300       508       8
B                                      (4.6)                                 110       248       7
4-10        In Ju   Yeom Chi                  13.1      0.2             861         130       211       5       23.2       20       19   18    13
4-11        Oe San -Su Sin                     8.3                    1,242         270       550       8        51.5      48       44    42    34
A                                      (8.1)   p.2*
B                                      (0.2)    0.2
4-12        So Sin -Sa Yang                    8.3      0.2             480         100       200       7       41.9       37       36    34    26
4-13        Jo San -Do Hwa Dam                14.8      P.3*          2,127                                     32.8       32       28    27    22
A                                      (8.1)                                 360       618       8
8                                      (6.7)                                 130       302       8
4-14        Hwe Yang -Seog Taeg                 6.6     0.2             490          80       152     - 5        19.9      18       17    16    11
4-15        Sab Gyo   G u Nan                  7.2      P.1             688         100       204       5       19.2        18      16    15   11
4-16        Seo San -Chang Ri                 19.5      P.2*         2,731                                      19.0       17       16    15    11
A                                      (8.4)                                 380       643       7
B                                     (11.1)                                 200       338       7
Subtotal                   162.9                  17,149
5           Jeonra Bog Do
5-i         Go Chang -Ban Am                  13.8                   1,458                                      30.9       28       26    25    19
1                                      (6.2)    P.2*                         565      921       8
2                                      (7.6)    P.l*                         220       388       7
5-2         Jeong Eub -Sin Tee In             15.4      P.2*         2,442                                      24.6       22       21   20    15
A                                     (10.4)                                 370       627       7
B                                      (4.9)                                 185       326       7
5-3         Geum Gwa -Pung San                10.3      0.2             755         135       217       5       23.3       20       19   18    13
5-4         Nam Weon -Song Dong               14.0      P.1          1,275                                       17.9       16      15   14      9
1                                     (11.9)                                 225       350       5
2                                      (2.1)                                 100       165       5
5-5         Dee Cha- Mu Jo - Nae Do           11.5      0.2          1,230                                      33.6       31       28    27    21
1                                      (7.7)                                 135       307       6
2                                      (3.8)                                 105       200       6
5-6         Wang Cong - Sam Rye                8.7      P.2*            832         405       706       7        38.7      35       33    31    24
Subtotal                    73.7                   7,992



-52 -                                                            Table 3.1
Page 3 of 5
Construction            Traffic  (AADT)               Internal rate of return
Sectiton                                                          coats  (W mln                  1985    Growth                With-
Sub-                                    Length   Stand-         at April           1981    fore-    rate        With      out         Sensiti i
No.   sec.  Wrom - to             (kit)   ~~~~ard /a    1982 prices)    Actual   cast         (%)       time/b   time/c  T17-27FV~
6           Jeonra Nam Do
6-I          Int Cog - Song lae                  21.6                    2,480                                        32.1        30       27    26    21
1                            ~~~~~~~(10.1)    P.1*                     265       436        7
2-A                                       (7.3)    P.2*                           280        491       7
2-B                                       (4.3)    P.2*                           270        594       7
6-2         Go  Seo - Yeon Cheon                 1011,371                                                             25.7        24       22    21    16
A                                        (2.0)    P.3*                           47 5       759       8
is                                       (8.1)    P.?*                           260        461       8
6-3         Seong Jeong - Samu Ceo Ri            15.2      P.3*          2,049                                        29.6        28       25    24    18
A                                        (5.6)                                   52 0      9 39       6
a                                        ( 5. 5)                                 27 5       469       6
c                            ~~~~~~~~~4.2)                             175   312    6
5-4         Cho Ho - San. Jeong                  11.3      P.1           1,243           225       368       7        20.5        19       17    16    12
6-S         Chil Ryang - Gwan San                15.9      P.1           1,306                                        21.7        19       18    17    12
A                             ~~~~~~~~(5~9)                            170       288       6
B                             ~~~~~~~~~7.6)                             65       12 3      6
c                                        (2>4)                                    95        169       6
6-6         Deog nong    J ang Hang              11,4      C.2           1,132           100       200       7         17.4       16       14    14    10
6-7         Co  Heung -Pung Yang                  9.2      G.2              993           70       132       7        15.1        13       12    11      9
6-8         Yong San -Seong  sae                  9.7      P.Ik          1,064           150       323       7        21.4        20       18    17    13
6-9         Weol A.m    J 1  San                  8.3      P.1           1,024           180       339       7        27.4        26       23    22    18
6--IC       OWang Yang - lug P6-n                 9.4      P.1k          1,078                                         18.4       17       15    14    11
A                                        (5.5)                                   275        446       6
-~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~(3.9)                                                   100a      169       6
Subtotal                    122.2                   _13,740
7           Cveongsang Bug Do
7-1         Co Ryeong - Do Seong                 16.4                    1,778                                        39.0        36       33    32    25
A                                        (1.5)    P.2*                           205       406        8
B                                        (8.2)    P.1
c                             ~~~~~~~~(6.7)    P.2*                    28 5      523       8
7-2         Sin Dang - Mae Cog                    7.7      P.1              793          100       195       6        22.2        21       19    18    13
7-3         Ha Bin - Si-n Cong                    7.7      0.2              518          130       216       6        23.3        21       20    18    14
7-4         Byeong Pin -Seon Ham                 15,2                    1,086                                         39.2       36       33    32    35
A                                        (4.2)    C.2                            130       252        6
3                                        (5.9)    P.1                            160        350       8
c                             ~~~~~~~~(5.1)    P.1                     160       326       6
7-6          Cim Cheon    G u Hti                1627      p.3*          2,130           370       681       8        31.2        28       27    25    19
7-7         Hyn Ryeong -Chang Pyeong    10.8               P.1              801          190       362       7        35.7        32       30    29    22
7-8         II Pig - I  Tab                       3.0      P.1              282          150       302       5        40.5        36       34    32    24
7-9         Mag Cog    J en Jeon                  0.9      P.1              848          120       232-      7        26.0        24       22    20    16
7-10        Geum Pang - An Gang                   8.3                    1, 19 3                                      30. 3       27       26    25    18
(1.5)    P.2*                           500       853       7
2                             ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~(6.6)    G.2                160       320       7
7-12        Cyeong Sani - Acn Sim                 3.1      P.3*             355          610    1,001        9        35.9        32       31    29    22
7-13        Jan- In - Pin Ryang                   7.5      ?.3*             878                                       45.5        43       39    37    30
A                                        (5.2)                                   305        567       9
(2.3)                                2,095    3, 659        9
D- an, Chou - Song Nae                     9.4       P.              895          180        31 5      5        31.9        29       27    25    19
7-15        Nam Jeong - Bong Jung                16.5      P.2*          3,522                                        34.8        33       30    28    22
(10.1)                                   255       463        5
2                             ~~~~~~~~~~                                        ~~(6.6)  245  474  6
7-16        Mag Gog - Bu Cog                      8.0      G.2              412          145       268        5       45.8        41       39    37    27
7-17       -,I  Ho - Ye Cheon-lug Rim           13.8      P.1*          1>672                                        23.4        22       19    18    14
(7.6)                                   270       414       5
2                                        (6.2)                                   230       389        5
7_9   Sang Un -Biong Seong                10.1      0.2              705          100        194       5        34.4        32       29    27    21
>720        Yeong Su    S un Heung               12.1      P.1           1,106           19 5      339       6        32. 5       28       27    26    19
7-21        Yoong Su -Seng Pveang                15.7                    1,707                                        45.2        40       36    36    27
A                                        (7.4)    P.1*                           240        467       5
B                                        (6.5)    P.1*                           125       256        5
(1.8)    P.3*                           430       734       8
Subtotal                    192,0                    20.681



- 53 -                                                         Table 3.1
Page 4 of 5
Construction           Traffic (AADT)              Internal rate of return
Section                                                       costs (W mln                 1985   Growth                 With-
Sub-                                  Length  Stand-         at April         1981    fore-    rate       With      out        Sensitivity
No.  see.         From - to                  (kcm)   ard /a    1982 prices)    Actual   cast           ()       time/b  time/c  l/7d --2/Fe  37-f
S           Gyeongsang Nam Do
8-1         Mu Rimn-Pyeong Sa-Sang Ga         14.3                    1,486                                     39.6       37       34    32    25
1-A                                     (7.5)    P.2*                         160       294       7
1-B                                     (4.1)   P.2*                          300       609       7
2                                      (2.7)    P.1*                         250       421      7
8-2         Bang Ji - Jug Cheon                 2.9     P.1             206         200       301       5       21.4       19       18    17   122
8-3         Seon Jin - Sin Bog                  2.6     9.1             187         200       308       5       26.5       24       22    21    15
8-4         G~il Pyeong - So Seog               2.2     9.3*            346         770    1,284        9       34.0       33       29    28    23
8-5         Geo Je - Sa Gog                     4.1     9,3*            414         285       539       8        43.6       40      37    36    27
8-6         Myeong Dong - Jin Yeong           14.3      9,2*          2,109
A                                      (7.0)                                 380       613      6        29.4       27       25    24    18
8                                      (7.3)                                 220       446      6
8-7         Seom Amc-Weon Ji-Gae Mog          17.0      9.2*          2,332                                      34.8      33       30   28    23
1                                      (5.8)                                 225       413      8
2                                     (11.2)                                 350       645      8
8-9         Nun San - Cho Jeon                 8.9                      931                                     28.0       26       24    22    17
A                                      (5.4)    P.1                          180       295      6
B                                      (3.5)   P.2                           330       542      6
8-0    n Cheon - Jeong Geum              3.1      P.3             272         235       392       7       24.3       21       21    19    14
8-11        Mi Jeoni-Dong Mae-Pyeong Sa  10.7           P.1          1,19 0                                     21.7       20       18    17    12
1                           ~~~~~~~(7.3)                           200       316       5
2                                      (3.4)                                 150      280       5
8-12        San Cheong - Si Cheon             12.5      P.1          1,112                                      28.5       26       24    23    17
i                           ~~~~~~~(4.9)                           200       321      6
2                                      (7.6)                                 200       382      6
8-14        San In   DaOe San                 11.1                    1,120                                     24.6       23       21    19    15
A                                      (0.3)    P.3*                         200       327      6
B                                      (8.1)    P.1
c                                      (2.7)    P.2*                         240       409      8
8-15        Mu An   N ae Jin                   8.0                      651         250       438       7       40.9       37       35   33    25
A                                      (0.8)    P.2
B                                      (7.2)    P.1*
8-16        Weol Nae - Sin Am                   6.0     9.3*            698         400       746       8       42.4       37       36    34    26
8-17        Weol Nae - Jang An Sa              8.1                      836                                     29.3       28       25    24    19
A                                      (4.1)    P.2*                         300       525      8
8                                      (4.0)   P.l*                          120       205      6
8-18        Jwa Cheon - Weol Pyeong           12.1      9,3*          1,066         350       583       7       35.9       33       31   29    23
8-19        Nab Cheon - Dae Byeong            21,0      P.1*          1,756         250       424       7       34.5       32       29    28    22
8-20        Ga Jo - U Hye - Ji San            15.9      9.1           1,668                                     21.6       19       18    17    12
1-A                                     (3.5)                                 210       328      7
1-B                                     (3.2)                                 120       217      6
2-A                                     (2.7)                                 330       508      7
2-B                                     (6.5)                                 150       248      5
Subtotal                   174.8                  18,380
9           Jeju Do
9-1         Sa Gye - Seo Gwang                  5,9     9.1*            542         115       236       6       37.4       34       32    30    23
Subtotal                     5.9                      542
Total                   1,006.5                  110,266
/a  Asterisk (*) indicates AC surface; the remainder DBST surface.
7H   Basic savings, basic investment cost.
7/c  Basic savings minus time savings, and basic investment cost.
Td-  Basic savings, and investment cost increased by 252.
/-e  Savings decreased by 25%, and basic investment cost.
/fA combination of all preceding testa: basic savings minus time savings, decreased by 25% and Investment cost
increased by 25%.
Souirce: First Gun Road Development Project - Final Recort, Vol. 1, September 1982, BCEOM, Korea,



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
County (Gun) Road Improvement Program
(Unit: km)
Summary
P.1                   P.2                   P.3
Sub-                  Sub-                   Sub-           Total           Gravel  Grand
Provinces (Do)         AC    DBST   total   AC    DBST  total   AC    DBST  total   AC    DBST   Total   G.2    total
Gyeonggi Do             4.2   20.3   24.5   54.3   -         54.3   26.0  -         26.0   84.5   20.3  104.8   15.4    120.2
Gangweon Do            28.9    9.9   38.8   36.5   -         36.5    -    -          -      65.4    9.9   75.3   11.4         86.7
Chungcheong Bug Do    -        32.6   32.6    -       -       -       -    -         -      -       32.6   32.6   35.5        68.1
Chungcheong Nam Do   45.5   12.5   58.0   49.3   -           49.3   16.9  -         16.9  111.7   12.5  124.2   38.7         162.9
Jeonra Bug Do           7.5    -        7.5   30.3  14.0   44.3    -    -            -      37.8   14.0   51.8   21.9         73.7
Jeonra Nam Do          29.2   35.5   64.7   19.7   -         19.7   17.2  -         17.2   66.1   35.5  101.6   20.6    122.2   >
Gyeongsang Bug Do    27.7   72.1   99.8   26.3   -           26.3   29.1  -         29.1   83.1   72.1  155.2   36.8         192.0
Gyeongsang Nam Do    34.9   58.1   93.0   49.7   4.3   54.0   24.7  3.1    27.8  109.3   65.5  174.8    -                    174.8
Jeju Do                 5.9    -        5.9    -      -       -       -    -         -       5.9    -        5.9    -          5.9
Total           183.8  241.0  424.8  266.1  18.3  284.4  113.9  3.1   117.0  563.8  262.4  826.2  180.3  1,006.5
Note:  P.1 = 5.0 m-wide(pavement and 6.5 rn-wide roadway.
P.2 = 6.0 mr-wide pavement and 7.5 mr-wide roadway.
P.3 = 6.2 im-wide pavement and 7.7 rn-wide roadway.
G.2 = Gravel road with a 6.5 mr-wide roadway.
AC = 5 cmrthick asphalt concrete.
DBST = Double bituminous surface treatment.
Source:  First Gun Road Development Project - Final Report, Vol. I, September 1982, BCEOM, Korea, p. 41, A12-23.
(D H
(D
0n
L.n



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
County (Gun) Road Design Standards
Road type          GI               G2                P1               P2                 P3
Terrain type      F/H    Ul        F/H   1U         F/H      M       F/tl       M       7FHTF      M
Width (m)
Roadway                             5.0    5.0        6.5    6.5      6.5  6.0-6.5      7.5  7.0-7.5       7.7  7.0-7.5
Pavement                            -       -         -      -        5.0      5.0       6.0     6.0       6.2      o.0
Shoulder                                -        -           -       0.75  0.5-0.75   0.75  0.5-0.75   0.75  0.5-0.75
Right of way                      >10.0  >10.0    >15.0  >15.0    15.0   >15.0         20.0   >20.0       25.0   >25.0
Design Speed (km/h)                    40     30        40      30       40      30         50      30         60     30
Horizontal Alignment
Normal crossfall                   4       4         4      4       2.5      2.5       2.5     2.5       2.5      2.5
Maximum superelevation             8       8         8      8         7       7          7       7          7      7
Curve Radius
Absolute minimum                50      25        50     25        50     25         80      25        125      25      L
Normal minimum                  60      30       60      30        60      30       100      30        140      30
At minimum superelevation    200    120         200    150        200    150        300    150         350    15J0
Without superelevation         350    200       400    250        400    250        500    250         600    250
Vertical Alignment
Maximum Gradient (X)
Normal                          -       10/a     -        8        -        8        -        7         -        7
Absolute                        -       127Ta     -      10/a      -       10        -         9        -        9
Curve Radius (m)
Crest                          700    300       700    500        700    500      1,000    700       1,500    900
Sag                            500    250       500    300        500    300        800    300       1,000    500
/a Paving will be considered for slopes above 8%.
September 1982
(D



- 56 -                              Table 3.3
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Comprehensive Maintenance Ptogram - Physical Output (1983-87)
Maintenance works                    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Provincial Roads
Paved Roads
Length (kim)                      759   1,460   1,700   1,940   2,180   2,432   2,670
Periodic (CT)
Resurfacing (km)                                  170     215      270      340      380
% of total length                                10      11       12       14      14
Routine (FA)
Patching (sq m/km)                                 45      40       35       30      30
% of total area                               0.75    0.65    0.58    0.50    0.50
Shoulder regraveling (km)                          85     135      195      290     320
% of total length                                 5       7        9       12      12
Unpaved Roads
Length (km)                     8,932   9,158   8,918   8,678   8,438   8,186   7,948
Periodic (CT, FA)
Regraveling (km)                                  415     520      750      740      840
% of total length                              4.6      6.0      8.9     9.0    10.5
Routine (FA)
Grading (no. of passes)                             6        6       6        6        6
County Roads
Paved Roads
Length (ki)                       546      770      950   1,130   1,310   1,491   1,670
Periodic (CT)
Resurfacing (km)                                   60       94     131      215     240
% of total length                              6.5      8.5       10       14      14
Routine (FA)
Patching (sq m/km)                                 36      36       36       36       36
Shoulder regraveling (km)                          50      80      120      180     200
% of total length                                 5       7        9       12      12
Unpaved Roads
Length (km)                    10,933  11,730  11,580  11,400  11,287  11,106  10,927
Periodic (CT, FA)
Regraveling (km)                                  300     400      675      775     875
% of total length                               2.5     3.5        6        7       8
Routine (FA)
Grading (no. of passes)                             1        2       4        6        6
Notes: (1) CT = Contract.
(2) FA = Force account.
(3) Road lengths in Table reflect both new construction and reclassification
of road categories.
Source: Consultants' study.
September 1982



- 57 -
Table 3.4
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Maintenance Expenditures - All Provinces (1983-87)
(Billion won at December 1982 prices)
1983      1984    1985   1986   1987   Total
Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Provincial Roads
Paved                               4.8       6.1      7.0    8.4    9.3    35.6
Unpaved                             4.3       5.5      8.3   13.1   14.3    45.5
Subtotal                           9.1      11.6    15.3   21.5   23.6    81.1
County Roads
Paved                               2.0       2.8      3.7    5.1    5.8    19.4
Unpaved                             2.0       3.6      8.0   14.9   15.0    43.5
Subtotal                           4.0       6.4    11.7   20.0   20.8    62.9
Rehabilitation works                2.9       5.9      5.9    3.3    2.9    20.9
Total                             16.0      23.9    32.9   44.8   47.3   164.9
Officials                                2.4       2.8      2.9    3.1    3.1    14.3
GRAND TOTAL                       18.4      36.7    35.8   47.9   50.4   179.2
Source: Consultants' study.
September 1982



- 58 -                                                             Table 3.5
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Maintenance Program Physical Output for Pilot Provinces (1983-87)
Gangweoa                                 Jeonnamn                                Gyeongbug
1983   1984    1985    1986   1987    1983    1984   1985    1986   1987    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Provincial Roads
Paved Roads
Length (km)               82      102     123     145     169     139     166     194    225       258     103     135     169     205     262
Rehabilitation
km                       3       6        6       3       3       5      10      10       6        5       4       7       7       4       4
%                      3.5    7.0    7.0    4.0         3.5     3.5     7.0    7.0    4.0       3.5     3.5    7.0       7.0     4.0    3.5
Resurfacing
km                       8      11      14      20       24      14      18      23      31      36       10      15      20     -28      36
%                       10      11       12      14      14      10      11      12      14       14      10      11      12      14      14
Patching
sq m/km                 45      40      35       30      30      45      40      35      30      30      45       40      35      30      30
%                     0.75   0.65   0.58   0.50   0.50   0.75   0.65   0.58   0.50   0.50   0.75   0.65   0.58   0.50   0.50
Shoulders
km                       4       7       11      17      20       7      11      17      27       31       5       9      15      25      31
X                        5       7       9       12      12       5       7       9      12       12       5       7       9      12
Unpaved Roads
Length (km)              785    765       744     722    698  1,258  1,231  1,203  1,172  1,139  1,733  1,701  1,667  1,631  1,574
Regraveling
km                      35      46       56      65      73      57      74      90     105      120      78     102     125     147     165
%                      4.5    6.0      7.5     9.0   10.5    4.5        6.0     7.5    9.0    10.5      4.5      6.0     7.5    9.0   1C.5
Grading (passes)            6       6       6       6       6       6       6        6       6       6       6       6       6        6       6
County Roads
Paved Roads
Length (km)               32       72     113     154     195      52      97     142      187     232      25     105     185    265      325
Rehabilitation
km                       1       2        2       1      -1       2       4       4       2        2       1       2       2       1        1
%                      3.5     7.0     7.0    4.0      3.5    3.5       7.0    7.0    4.0       3.5     3.5    7.0       7.0    4.0    3.5
Resurfacing
km                       3       7       11      12      10       5      11      14      15       12       3      10       7       7      10
%                       10      10       10       8       5      10      11      10       8        5      10      10       4       3       3
Patchin
sq . km                 36      36      36      36       36      36      36      36      36      36       36      36      36      36      36
%                     0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65   0.65
Shoulders
km                       2        5      10      18      23       3       7      13       22      28       1       7      16      32      :39
%                        5       7        9      12      12       5       7       9      12       12       5       7       9      12      12
Unpaved Roads
Length (km)            1,139  1,099  1,058  1,017         976  1,839  1,794  1,749  1,704  1,659  1,878  1,798  1,718  1,638  1,528
Regraveling
km                      45      55      63       71      79      74      90     105     120     133       75      90     103     115     126
%                        4       5        6       7       8       4       5       6       7        8       4       5       6       7       8
Grading (passes)            2       3       4       6       6       2       3        4       6       6       2       3       4        6       6
Source: Consultants' Study
October 1982



- 59 -                                   Table 3.6
Page I
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Maintenance Program:  Expenditures for Pilot Provinces (1983-87)
(Million won at December 1982 prices)
Unit cost                  1983      1984       1985      1986       1987
Gangweon Pilot Province
Provincial
Paved Roads (ki)                                    (82)    (102)    (123)    (145)    (169)
Resurfacing CT        15.3 MW/ha                  122        168       214        306        367
Patching      FA      10,500 W/sq m                39         43         45        46         53
Shoulders   FA        0.7 MW/km                      3         5          8        12         14
Patrolmen    FA       0.46 MW/km                    38        47         57        67         78
Others        FA      0.09>0.15 MW/km                7        10         13        18         25
Emergency   FA 0A 28 MW                            23         28         34        41         47
Bridges       CT
Total Paved                                      232        301       371        490       584
Unpaved Roads (km)                                 (785)      (765)    (744)    (722)    (698)
Regraveling CT,FA  7.3>16.5 MW/km                 255        375       554        817     1,204
Grading       FA      0.02 MW/km                   94         92         89        86         83
Patrolmen    FA       0.15 MW/km                   118       115       112        108        105
Others        FA      0.04>0.09 MW/km               31        37         44        53         63
Emergency   FA                                      7 000901  MW/kn  82  96       113        132
Bridges       CT      0.901MWk
Total Unpaved                                    568        701       895      1,177     1,587
Total Maintenance                                800     1,002      1,266      1,667     2,171
Gun
Paved Roads (kn)                                    (32)       (72)    (113)    (154)    (195)
Resurfacing CT        14.5 MW/km                   43        101        159       174        145
Patching      FA      10,500 W/sq m                 12        27         43        58         74
Shoulders   FA        0.7 MW/km                      1         3          7        13         16
Patrolmen   FA        0.46 MW/km                    15        33        52         71         90
Others        FA      0.07>0.13 MW/km                2         4          7        13         25
Emergenicy   PA9                                              19         3         42         5
Bridges       CT      0.27 MW/km                     9        19         31        42         53
Total Paved                                       82        187       299        371       403
Unpaved Roads (kin)                              (1,139)  (1,099)  (1,058)  (1,017)    (976)
Regraveling CT,FA  6>12.5 MW/km                   270        373       516        714       988
Grading       FA      0.015 MW/km                  34         49        63         92        88
Patrolmen   FA        0.05>0.15 MW/km              57         72        91        116        146
Others        PA      0.023>0.05 MW/km              23        28         34        41         49
Emerg~.mey   PFA                                   46         62         85       119        iSh
Bridges       CT  1  O.04>0.16 MW/km4
Total Unpaved                                    430        584       789     1,078      1,427
Total Mainte-ance                                512        771     1,088      1,449     1,830
Total Maintenance - Provincial
and Gun                                     1,312      1,733      2,354     3,116      4,001
Rehabilitation
Provincial            33 MW/km                     99        198       198         99         99
Gun                   31 til/k,k                   31         62         62        31         31
Total Rehabilitation                             130        260       260        130       130
Total Maintenance and Rehabili-
tation                                      1,442      2,033     2,614      3,216      4,131



- 60 -                              Table 3.6
Page 2
Unit cost                1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
Jeonnam Pilot Province
Provincial
Paved Roads (km)                                (139)    (166)    (194)    (225)    (258)
Resurfacing CT       15.3 MW/km                 214      275       352       474       551
Patching    FA       10,500 W/sq m              66         70       71        71        81
Shoulders   FA       0.7 MW/km                    5         8        12        19       22
Patrolmen   FA       0.46 MW/km                  64        76       89       113       119
Others       FA      0.09>0.15 MW/km             12        16        21        28        38
Emergency   FA  }           /39                            46        54       63         72
Bridges      CT  ~02   Wk
Total Paved                                   400       491       599       768       883
Unpaved Roads (km)                            (1,258)  (1,231)  (1,203)  (1,172)  (1,139)
Regraveling CT,FA  7.3>16.5 MW/km              416       614       907    1,340    1,980
Grading      FA      0.02 MW/km                151       148       144       141       137
Patrolmen   FA       0.15 MW/km                189       185       180       176       171
Others       FA      0.04>0.09 MW/km            50        60        72        86       102
Emergency   FA                    /             113      133       156       184       216
Bridges      CT      0.901M/k
Total Unpaved                                 919    1,140    1,459    1,927    2,606
Total Maintenance                           1,319    1,631    2,058    2,695    3,489
Gun
Paved Roads (km)                                  (52)      (97)    (142)    (187)    (232)
Resurfacing CT       14.5 MW/km                  72       159      203       217       174
Patching    FA       10,500 W/sq m               20        36        54       71        87
Shoulders   FA       0.7 MW/km                    2         5        9        15        20
Patrolmen   FA       0.46 MW/km                  24        44       65        86       107
Others       FA      0.07>0.13 MW/km              3         6        10       17        30
Emergency   FA                                   14       26        38        50        63
Bridges      CT  }  0.27 MW/km
Total Paved                                   135       276       379       456       481
Unpaved Roads (km)                            (1,839)  (1,794)  (1,749)  (1,704)  (1,659)
Regraveling CT,FA  6>12.5 MW/km                444       617       859    1,195    1,162
Grading      FA      0.015 MW/km                 55        80       105      153       149
Patrolmen   FA       0.05>0.15 MW/km             92       118      151       194       249
Others       FA      0.02>0.05 MW/km             36       44        54        67        83
Emergency   FA  }                 /73                     100      139       192       265
Bridges      CT      0.401MWk
Total Unpaved                                 700       959    1,308    1,801    2,408
Total Maintenance                             835    1,235    1,687    2,257    2,889
Total Maintenance - Provincial
and Gun                                   2,154    2,866    3,745    4,952    6,378
Rehabilitation
Provincial           33 MW/km                   165      330       330       198       165
Gun                  31 MW/km                    62       124      124        62        62
Total Rehabilitation                          227       454       454       260       227
Total Maintenance and Rehabili-
tation                                    2,381    3,320    4,199    5,212    6,605



- 61 -                                Table 3.6
Unit cost                 1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
Gyeongbug Pilot Province
Provincial
Paved Roads (km)                                 (103)    (135)    (169)    (205)    (262)
Resurfacing CT       15.3 MW/km                 153       230       306       428        550
Patching    FA       10,500 W/sq a               49        57        62        65        82
Shoulders   FA       0.7 MW/km                    4         6        10        17        22
Patrolmen   FA       0.46 MW/km                  47        62        78        94       120
Others       FA      0.09*0.15 MW/km              9        13        19        27         39
Emergency   FA  }  0.28 MW/km                    29        38        47         57        73
Bridges      CT
Total Paved                                    291       406       522       688       886
Unpaved Roads (km)                             (1,733)  (1,701)  (1,667)  (1,631)  (1,574)
Regraveling CT,FA  7.3*16.5 MW/km               570       842    1,245    1,842       2,722
Grading      FA      0.02 MW/km                 2 08      2 04      2 00      196       189
Patrolmen   FA       0.15 MW/km                 260       255       250       245       236
Others       FA      0.0400.09 MW/km             69        82        99       118       142
Emergency   PA       009 19 MW /km              1 56      183       216       254       299
Bridges      CT
Total Unpaved                                1,263     1,566    2,010    2,655    3,588
Total Maintenance                            1, 554    1,972    2,532    3,343    4,474
Gun
Paved Roads (km)                                  (25)    (105)    (185)    (265)    (325)
Resurfacing CT       14.5 MW/km                  43       145       101       101       145
Patching    FA       10,500 W/sq m                9        39        70       100       123
Shoulders   FA       0.7 MW/km                    1         5        11        22        27
Patrolmen   FA       0.46 MW/km                  11        48        85       122       150
Others       FA      0.07>0.13 MW/km              2         5         9        20         42
Emergency   FA       0.27 MW/km                   7        28        50        72        88
Bridges      CT
Total Paved                                     73       270       326       437       575
Unpaved Roads (km)                             (1,878)  (1,798)  (1,718)  (1,638)  (1,578)
Regraveling CT,FA  6312.5 MW/km                 450       615       842    1,151      1,575
Grading      FA      0.015 MW/km                 56        81       103       147       142
Patrolmen   FA       0.0530.15 MW/km             94       118       149       188       236
Others       FA      0.02>0.05 MW/km             38        46        55        66         78
Emergency   FA  }  0.0430.16 MW/km               76       102       138       187       252
Bridges      CT
Total Unpaved                                  714       962     1,287     1,739    2,283
Total Maintenance                              787    1,232      1,613    2,176    2,858
Total Maintenance - Provincial
and Gun                                   2,341     3,204    4,145    5,519        6,332
Rehabilitation
Provincial           33 MW/km                   132       231       231       132       132
Gun                  31 MW/km                    31        62        62        31         31
Total Rehabilitation                           163       293       293       163       163
Total Maintenance and Rehabili-
tation                                    2,504    3,497    4,438        5,682     6,495
Source: Consultants study.
September 1982



- 62 -                                     Table 3.7
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Equipment for Maintenance Program and Costs
(Won million)
Characteristics
Power                 Unit        Total              1983              1984
Type of equipment          (hp)   Capacity    cost   No.    Cost          No.    Cost      No.   Cost
Air compressor              76     250 CFm    11.20   17         190.40   17       190.40    -       -
Hand sprayer               3.5      200 1        3.00   17        51.00   17        51.00    -       -
Vibrating roller            26     0.9 T         8.70   15       130.50   15       130.50    -       -
Tire roller                 38       10 T       50.60   36   1,821.60   15         759.00   21  1,062.60
Dumper                      60      1.3 cu m   20.55   16        328.80   16      328.80    -        -
Bulldozer                  195       21 T      178.20    2       356.40    -         -        2    356.40
Wheel loader               102      1.5 cu m   65.50    7        458.50    6       393.00    1       65.50
Motorgrader                145     3.7 m       110.70   67   7,416.90   30   3,321.00   37  4,095.90
Water tank truck                 5,500 1        12.70   36       457.20   14       177.80   22    279.40
Dump truck                 185        8 T       26.85  146   3,920.10   90   2,416.50   56  1,503.60
Small truck                        2.5 T         8.52   38       323.76   23       195.96   15    127.80
Crusher/screening
plant                   120       25 T       142.00    8   1,136.00    8   1,136.00    -           -
Management vehicles                              5.00   38       190.00   38       190.00    -        -
Subtotal                                                16,781.16          9,289.96         7,491.20
Spare parts about 20%                                         3,329.84          1,843.38         1,486.46
Total                                             443  20,111.00  289  11,133.34  154  8,977.66
Sources: Consultants' study, MOHA and mission.
October 1982



- 63 -                         Table 3.8
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Cumulative Disbursement Schedule
Estimated cumulative             Cumulative disburse-
IBRD fiscal year                   disbursement                 ment country profile
and quarter               US$ million            %                     (%)
1982/83
March 31, 1983
June 30, 1983                   3.00             2.0                    0.8
1983/84
September 30, 1983              -                -                      _
December 31, 1983              15.00            12.0                     5.5
March 31, 1984                  -                -                      -
June 30, 1984                  25.00            20.0                   14.0
1984/85
September 30, 1984              -                -                      -
December 31, 1984              35.00            28.0                   26.1
March 31, 1985                  -                -                      -
June 30, 1985                  50.00            40.0                   40.4
1985/86
September 30, 1985              -
December 31, 1985              70.00            56.0                   55.1
March 31, 1986                  -                -                      _
June 30, 1986                  90.00            72.0                   68.2
1986/87
September 30, 1986             -                 _                      _
December 31, 1986             100.0             80.0                   78.9
March 31, 1987                  -                -                      -
June 30, 1987                 115.00            92.0                   87.0
1987/88
September 30, 1987              -                -                      _
December 31, 1987             125.00           100.0                   93.0
March 31, 1988
June 30, 1988                                                          97.1
1988/89
September 30, 1988                                                    100.0
December 31, 1988
March 31, 1989
June 30, 1989
Source: Bank Staff.
November 1982



- 64 -
Table 4.1
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Distribution of County Road Improvement Works by Traffic Range
and by Province (1981 and 1985)
(Total road lengths in km and number of sections)
Traffic range /a                                    Total        Coun-
50-199         200-399         400-699          700-999    1,000-1,400               Sec-   ties
Provinces          1981    1985   1981    1985   1981   1985    1981   1985  1981   1985   Length   tion  served
Gyeonggi
Lengths          58.35  26.02   29.26  26.01  36.11   25.52   8.90  34.64           -  20.43    132.62       -    13
Sections          (10)    (4)       (5)    (5)    (8)       (5)    (1)    (7)       -    (3)          -  (24)      -
Gangweon
Lengths          39.46   5.04   43.44  27.19   3.48   54.15           -      -      -      -      86.38      -      6
Sections           (6)    (1)       (9)    (5)    (1)    (10)        -       -      -      -          -  (16)      -
Chung Bug
Lengths          68.43  27.26            41.17       -        -       -      -      -      -      68.43      -      5
Sections           (7)    (2)         -    (5)       -        -      -       -      -      -          -   (7)      -
Chung Nam
Lengths          68.27   6.55   88.66  73.46   6.67   70.89           -  12.70  1.06   1.06    164.66        -    12
Sections           (8)    (1)    (11)    (9)    (2)         (9)      -    (2)   (1)    (1)            -  (22)      -
Jeon Bug
Lengths          29.42   5.75   29.96  35.61  14.87   18.02          -  14.87       -      -      74.25      -    16
Sections           (5)    (2)       (3)    (4)    (2)       (2)      -    (2)       -      -          -  (10)      -
Jeon Nam
Lengths          64.01  35.80   51.60  39.21   8.00   40.60           -   8.00      -      -    123.61       -    lI
Sections           (9)    (5)       (5)    (5)    (2)       (4)      -    (2)       -      -          -  (16)      -
Gyeong Bug
Lengths         108.16  35.69   75.77  82.17   6.51   66.07          -   6.51  2.22   2.22    192.66         -    15
Sections          (15)    (4)       (9)   (12)    (3)       (8)      -    (3)   (1)    (1)            -  (28)      -
Gyeong Nam
Lengths          30.54       -  136.70  63.58   6.00  103.66   2.24   6.00          -   2.24    175.48       -    11
Sections           (6)       -    (22)   (13)    (1)    (15)    (1)    (1)          -    (1)          -  (30)      -
Jeju
Lengths           6.00       -        -   6.00       -        -       -      -      -      -       6.0       -      I
Sections           (1)       -        -    (1)       -        -      -       -      -      -               (1)     -
Total
Lengths      472.64 142.11  455.39  394.4  81.63  378.51  11.14   82.72 3.26  25.55  1,024.09/c   -    80
Sections /b   (67)   (19)    (64)   (59)   (19)    (53)    (2)    (17)  (2)    (6)                 -  154
/a  Traffic expressed in average annual daily traffic (AADT).
/b  The number of homogenous traffic sections is greater than the number of roads (99 links) proposed for
improvement.
/c  Original unimproved length; improved length is 1,006 km.
Sources: Consultants- and mission-s estimates.
September 1982



- 65 -                             Table 4.2
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
County Road Improvement Works - Traffic Composition and Growth Rates (1985-2005)
A. Typical Traffic Composition in 1980 (%)
Light     Heavy
Province                       Cars    Taxis    Buses    trucks    trucks          Total
Gyeonggi                        22        14        17        35         12         100
Gangweon                        20        18        07        32         23         100
Chung Bug                       11        21        18        38         12         100
Chung Nam                       12        21        13        30         24         100
Jeon Bug                        18        24        12        28         18         100
Jeon Nam                        12        29        09        35         14         100
Gyeong Bug                      11        17        15        41         16         100
Gyeong Nam                      18        21        13        39         09         100
Jeju                            38        16        19        17         19         100
Average                         18        18        14        35         15         100
Standard composition            20        20        10        35         15         100
B. Traffic Growth Rates (1985-2005) (%)
Basic                            Light   Heavy
rate    Cars   Taxis   Buses  trucks  trucks
Normal Traffic Growth Rates
Local /a                                5         7       4        5       4        6
Through traffic /b                      8        10        7       8       7        9
Close to cities                         9        11       8        9       8       10
Elasticity factor for generated
traffic /c                              -     1.00    0.50    0.50   0.50    0.25
/a  Road function is purely serving local area without through traffic.
lb  Road in rural area but bears substantial through traffic.
7h Factors are applied to the VOCs' savings that occur with road improvements.
Sources:  MOHA counts (September 1980) and consultants' estimates.
September 1982



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings for Typical Terrains and Improvement Standards
(Won per km, excluding tax and passenger time)
Cars                  Taxis                  Buses             Light trucks             Heavy trucks
Track    Gravel       Track    Gravel        Track    Gravel        Track    Gravel        Track    Gravel
Existing roads           (T)       (GI)       _(T)        (Gl)        (T)        (GI)        (T)        (Gl)        (T)       -(G1)
Flat                   181       144         376        271         583       437          437       330          748       552
Rolling               194        153         425       303          648       480          495       375          848       620
Hilly                 222        174         534        379         794       579          640       463        1,094       778
Mountainous           285        218         825        579       1,170       841        1,045       785        1,755     1,305
Gravel   Paved        Gravel   Paved         Gravel   Paved         Gravel   Paved         Gravel   Paved
Improved roads           (G2)     (P2)         (G2)      (P2)         (G2)     (P2)          (G2)     (P2)          (G2)     (P2)
Flat                  134        109         227        195         374       308          267       212          442       345
Rolling               138        112         250        213         405       332          297       236          491       382
Hilly                  153       121         306        257         479       391          366       290          606       469
Mountainous            189       147         459        386         676       551          588       470          975        764
Savings from          T to G2  GI to P2   T to G2  GI to P2   T to G2  GI to P2   T to G2  GI to P2   T to G2  GI to P2
improvements          Won   %  Won   %    Won   %  Won   %    Won   %  Won   %    Won   %  Won   %    Won   %  Won   %
Flat                 47  26  35   24    110  29   76  28    209  36  129  30    170  39  118  36    306  41  207  38
Rolling              56  29  41   27    175  41   90  30    243  38  148  31    198  40  139  37    357  42  238  38
Hilly                69  31  53   30    228  43  122  32    315  40  188  32    274  43  173  37    488  45  309  40
Mountainous          96  34  71   33    366  44  193  33    494  42  290  34    457  44  315  40    780  44  541  41
All VOCs are expressed in April 1982 prices.
Sources: Consultants and mission estimates.
October, 1982



- 67 -                         Table 4.4
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
County Roads Improvement Program: Economic Evaluation
A. Internal Rates of Return
Internal Rate of Return
Project                With-
length       With      out            Sensitivity
No.    Province                (km)         time     time       1 /a    2 /b    3 -c
1.    Gyeonggi                120.147      33.2       31       28       27       21
2.    Gangweon                 86.718       27.6      25       23        22      17
3.    Chungcheong Bug          68.064       22.6      20       19        18      13
4.    Chungcheong Nam         162.858       31.4      29       27        25      20
5.    Jeonra Bug               73.677       27.7      25       23        22      17
6.    Jeonra Nam              122.239       24.9      23       21        20      15
7.    Gyeongsang Bug          192.041       34.5      31       29        28      21
8.    Gyeongsang Nam          174.831       31.7      29       27        26      20
9.    Jeju                      5.917       37.4      34       32        30      23
Total               1,006.492       30.5       28       26       25       19
B. Economic Flows for all County Roads Improvements
(W million)
Maintenance Costs
Invest-      Total        Existing            Project Road
Year     ment        savings         road        Routine        Periodic      Total
(1)          (2)           (3)           (4)          (5)        -1+2+3-4-5
1983    34,430         -              -             -            -           -34,430
1984    45,907         -              -             -            -           -45,907
1985    34,430      15,723           195           485           -           -18,997
1986       -        33,600           391           969           -            33,022
1987       -        35,902            i"                         -            35,324
1988       -        38,362            I"                         -            37,783
1989       -        40,990            "             "            -            40,411
1993       -        53,430            "             "         2,574           50,277
1996       -        65,180            "             "        11,400           53,202
2000       -        84,962           "i                      10,536           73,847
2005       -       118,334            "             "            -           117,756
2006   -57,384         -              -             -            -            57,384
/a  Basic savings and investment costs increased by 25%.
7i  Savings decreased by 25%, and basic investment cost.
/c A combination of all preceding tests: basic savings without time, savings
decreased by 25% and investment costs increased by 25%.
Source: First Gun Road Development Project - Final Report, Vol. 1, September
1982, BCEOM, Korea A61-62.
October 1982



23333V3R33A3. ARC COUIFLY 320305 CR02332
INVEIT-    TOTAL  -MA   ENANU   col~Oo,0300.,  03,v2o,,006A332 RC32TOTAL,to,
yra  ET  SAIN(,S   EXS'ZI                            TOTLi                         LMNT       SVIG         XSINIPOET   6                          TT                       M      XT         5V S    XS3GF?1 nT
3333      4,935         -                                     -        -3,332                3033                                                                    -3334I                6qR       2.33           -            -                                   -3.33
3330     4,302       2.233          23           SA           -        -2.3                  335        3 304      3 2,0         22           C                      -3,q22                1985      2.333         383          33           32            --3,. "3
33R3        -         ,820          AT          343 -                   3,33                 lOE233                               3           A3338 -                    3,333                                                  26968  -                              0,327
3332        -        5,202--                                             9,0                 303                                 3228                                 2,R23                39832        -        3.2                                       -          13.05S
SOR                   .535.3                                                                 13336                 3.33                                               302                  1933         -         . 633                                    -           ,90
3336                    W 9.33                             323          3,332               3993                   5.2i                                               3,003                1333         -         .60                                                2 320
3200    -            213          ____ ___                    322      I 33,441             000                  36,390                                               6.033                2gm* ,3382                                                                2,433
3035        -1723                                             -        3.632                2302                   9,458                                              9 ,423               33AS         -        323                                      -          8,38
3338    -3,3469                                                            4    ___ ___  ,69  3333                                -                                   5,292                L33      -,2                                                                ,1
T 3'S-  OCTA3              303200.TCSS23oS-                                                           OTAL              M303RT60AN3:  COSTS                                              WEST       TTC____________                     57
33     22         !                                                                                          ----- 039i)  33  3  33        322    -323--                                 3     _ ____4           (38333                              1    4
1~~~~~~~3  ,W               1   3                                                                                          1983     4,?is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I                                                                                           98                                                           -          3, 392               3333      3.32                                                          -5 623
302 5.840       2,622          32.  -,3                                                 1989      25913       3,33          34            352 052                                      3385     2.2         1.533          32           31                     -32783
3032                                32,02                               332                  393       24          2,33            '                        -          ,2                    53                   .
332   -        6.20          "1           I                       0,TO                 1908        -         2.232                       ' I                    21                    383.3-                                                              3 3,3
303        -          ,30                                  42,        9,32                 1093                  2 ,333334                                           3,30                 1931         -       3.413                                     33        3,633
247  3, Ill            1993~~~         ----             ----
2395        -       22,7938                                            32,2724 005-                                                                                   2100                 28035                30.9,,6                                              3,3
20203  j-.?3            -                         -            -        3.3 M                                        -                                      -         323233J233-                                                                                     ,9
33303233  33  30  Li                                                                    20131314303 7L1                                                                                          3013203~
2                          _~~~~~~~--04                                                 I                                                                                                              _~~~~~~ 13-4
223 6 40                               --  -                                                       -   --                    ----98-                                                                         ___9_ _        80318333321001
18  6,4013      0,32:          32           03                           01935                    0,037       0.633          34           335                  -3,363                 3985        !01        323                                                 -I325
3934        -        242            IS3I                                 "31                 330         -           6,33        639         32-                      3,2                  393                    230            22 
3330  -  3,942 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~782                                3932         -        3,20                                               S  ,037              3987         -7                                                              6
3330  - -  3,022  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~635                             339          -         6,3.32-                                           6,225                1939         -                                           1lit
3332        -          023,3  2832                                      3,323                1933                                                                                          193,39 23                                                       2 
2020        -        630             ~                      ,433         3 3b46              2030        -         333                                   ,3                                30                                                      3       0     
""06    ~              ____    I                                                     19 so 2- ~ -        1      ,                ____ _819A                                           ___
32320  -22.422  -  -           -               J     332,~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~630  2306    -9,036  9-  79                                                    32333      -332                        - 
"''-323093  3r233.23-23382  00223   3o    2   030203  30, 3C083, 333-,, A62-36-



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Provinclal and County Roads Maintenance Program: Potential Savings in VOCs
(Without taxes, December 1982 prices)
Graveled roads                                                     Paved roads
Traffic range (AADT) /a                        50     100    200      400           Total            100    200      400   1000   1000   2000             Total
25      75    150      300      600        or          75     150     300      600     900   1000   3000           or
Road type                    Unit         T    T/G1  G1/G2       G2       G3      (average)      P1      P1   PI/P2       P2      P2       P2      P2  (average)
(1)  Basic VOC             w/km        591      523     416     376     355        (384)      317      317     296     275      275     275     275      (277)
Without Program
(2)  Speed reduction           %       -50     -45    -35       -30    -20         (-32)      -30      -20     -15     -10      -10     -10     -10      (-11)
(3)  VOC increase              %       +78      +65    +45    +35    +21           (+39)      +35      +21     +15    +10    +10    +10    +10           (+11)
(4)  Actual VOC            w/km      1,051      863     602     508     429        (536)       428     383     341      303     303     303      303     (306)
With  Program
(5)  Speed reduction           %       -25     -22      -17     -15    -10         (-16)         0       0        0       0       0        0       0       (0)
(6)  VOC increase              1       +28      +24    +18    +15    +10           (+16)         0       0        0       0       0        0       0       (0)
(7)  Actual VOC            w/km        756      648     490    432      391        (445)       317     317     296      275     275     275      275     (277)
1986 Network Length
(8)  Provincial               km       900  1,450  2,647  2,261         928       8,186        119     195     404     910      341     463        -   2,432
(9)  Gun                      km     1,100  2,400  4,136  3,081         389      11,106         65     138     435      497     148     174       34   1,491
(10)       Total               km     2,000  2,850  6,780  5,342   1,317          19,292        184     333     839  1,407       489      637      34   3,923
1992 Network Length
(11)  Provincial               km        675     820  1,729  2,361   1,914         7,499         31     139      349     536  1,449       372     343   3,119
(12)  Gun                      km       825  1,259  2,781  3,572  2,381           10,818         17      84     215      451     694      155     163    1,779
(13)       Total               km     1,500  2,079  4,510  5,933  4,295           18,317         48      23     464      987  2,143       527     506   4,898
Annual Traffic x Length
(14)  In 1986        106 veh. km       18.3  105.4  371.4  584.9  288.4    1,376.6              5.0   18.0   91.9  308.1  160.6  348.8    37.2    969.8
(15)  In 1992        1O6 veh. km       13.7    56.9  246.9  649.7  940.6    1,907.8             1.3   12.2    50.8  216.2  704.0  288.4  554.1 1,827.1
Transportation Costs
In 1986:
(16)    Without program 109 w           19.1   90.9  223.6  297.3  123.7           754.7        2.1     7.0   31.3    93.3    48.7  105.6    11.3   299.3
(17)    With program        1O9 w       13.9    68.3  182.0  252.9  112.9          630.0        1.6     5.7    27.1    84.7    $$.2    95.9    10.3    269.5
(18)       = Savings        109 w        5.4   22.6    41.7    44.4    10.9        124.9        0.5     1.2      4.2     8.5     4.5      9.7     1.0     29.8
In 1992:
(19)    Without program  109 w          14.4   49.2  148.7  330.2  403.6           945.9        0.5     4.7    17.4    65.4  213.2    87.3  167.7    556.3
(20)    With program        109 w       10.4   37.0  120.9  280.8  367.8           816.9        0.3     3.8    15.0    59.5  193.5    79.3  152.3    503.7
(21)       = Savings        109 w        4.1   12.2   27.7   49.3   35.6           129.0        0.2     0.9     2.3      6.1    19.7      8.0    15.5     52.5
/a Annual average daily traffic.
Notes:    (4) = (1) x f 1+(3)]                          (14)   (10) x average AADT x 365               (17) =  (7) x (14)             (20) =  (7) x (15)
(7) = (1) x [1+(6)1                          (15) = (13) x average AADT x 365               (18) = (16) - (17)             (21)    (19) - (20)
(3) to (13) = present estimates              (16) =(4) x (14)                               (19) =  (4) x (15)
Source:  Consultants' estimates
September 1982



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Provincial and County Roads Maintenance Program:
Economic Evaluiation 1983-92
(Billion won without taxes, at December 1982 prices)
Costs                                                                  Benefits
TAS &                                   Cost      Program's            Paved roads                   Graveled Roads                       Program's
Years  Equip-  train-  Rehabil-  Recurrent  Total  without   increase    Potential  Effic.   Actual  Potential  Effic.  Actual                   Total       net
menit    ing    itation       costs    costs  program   in costs        savings   coeff.  savings   savings   coeff.  savings    savings   benefits
(1)     (2)       (3)         (4)       (5)      (6)    (7)=(5)-(6)       (8)       (9)   (10)=(8)    (11)        (12)   (13)=(11)  (14)=(10)  (15)=(14)
x(9)                           x(12)       +(13)        -(7)
1983   10.02    0.43       2.95       15.50    28.90    8.63        20.27         22.38    0.00       0.00    122.88    0.00          0.00         0.00      -20.270
1984    8.08    0.54       5.90       20.70    35.22    9.03         26.19        24.61    0.10        2.46    123.55    0.10         12.36       14.82      -11.37(0
1985             0.43      5.90       29.90    36.23    9.47        26.76         27.06    0.35       9.47    124.22    0.30         37.27        46.74       19.980
1986                       3.30       44.60    47.90    9.90        38.00         29.75    0.60       17.85    124.90    0.50        62.45        80.30       42.300
1987                       2.95       47.40    50.35   10.36         39.99        32.71    0.80       26.17    125.58    0.70        87.91       114.08       74.109        1
1988                                  46.89    46.89   10.83         36.06        35.96    1.00       35.96    126.26    0.90        113.63      149.59      113.053       C
1989                                  49.45    49.45   11.34         38.11        39.54    1.00      39.54    126.95       1.00      126.95      166.49      128.038        1
1990                                  52.01    52.01   11.87        40.14         43.47    1.00      43.47    127.64      1.00      127.64       171.11      130.970
1991                                  54.57    54.57   12.41        42.16         47.79    1.00      47.79    128.93      1.00      128.33       176.12      133.960
1992                                  57.14    57.14   12.99        44.15         52.55    1.00       52.55    129.03      1.00      129.03      181.58      137.430
Internal rates of return                Benefit/cost ratios /s
Most likely result                                         92.1%                                2.43
Sensitivity Analysis:
Cost increase by 20%:                                    74.8%                                2.03
Benefit decrease by 25%:                                 65.7%                                1.83
Cost iTlerease by 20% anid
benefit decreased by 25%                               51.0%                                1.52
/s Discount rate = 20
Source: Consultants' and mission's estimates
September 1982
ED



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Ministry of Construction: Organization
Minister
Vice Minister
Controller of
Planning and
Management
......    . .. ... 
Korea                                     Bureau ofi                                                                                                     National               Nationel
Highway               Korea                           Bureau or          f               Peau of                                    Bureau of Eonip
p at n  W a t e r                           M anHo u s in g   N a t io n a l   blrC                                                                                   G eot rr atnh
COrpOractiortionPhysical                                    [        jRoad                                InutilWater                                  Rsac                   nttt
(KHCI                            PlannininPlanning                                                  Location              Resources              Institute
Deentrpmenl                                  TelTraining
COroreationds                                                                                                   Ceotraruction
trial Site                                 Bureau of            Bureau of                                    Equipment
Resuatrce                                  Management             Housing                                    Management
Resources                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OfficeTertra
Development                                                                                                                                                 Conritrucion
Corporation                                                                                                                                                 Cntuto
& Management
Office (9l
1TCMO.s)
Source: Ministry of Construction
World Bank - 19014



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Korea Highway Corporation: Organization
V President
i~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~ I               .I
Exec tiveB Vice
President
|Vice President 
Emergency  Maintenance          Renovation &
Planning &         General Affairs         Management            Accounting    |         Busines                   ag Y                                     Landscapin            Construetion
Coordination Offici      Department            Departmen             Department             Department                  f                                                         |Dparte  Departmentnt
Laboratory                 Suweon                   Daejeon                     Daegu                   GwangiuFil
Regional Office          Regional Office            Regional Office           Regional Office         Construction Office
| Fel Main                Field Main-   |            Field Main-                      a |  ii   an- 
tenance Office           tenance Office            tenance Office             tenance Offiee 
(6i)                     (i5                       (4)                        (4) 
To  Office               Toll Office                Toll Office              Toll Office
|   161       ;              16)                        (16)                     (5) 
Source: Ministry of Construction
World Bank - 19016



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Bureau of Public Roads: Organization
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR)
Director General
= ~~~~~.................................................
Director                             
.I                                          I       
Planr| Administration     Construction         j    Maintenance
|  Division    l   |       Division                  Division                  Division
Territorial Construction &
Management Offices (9)
Director (TCMO'S)
I  -   . ,. |  . _  ._               Ri_rs an
General           |      National                                           aRiverays and               Testing
Division                 Highway                                                ivision    J          Laboratory
Division                                            Diiso
~~~ ~              L        
National HighwaV
Maint. Offices (19)
(NHMO's)
Source: Ministry of Construction
World Bank - 19015
1



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Ministry of Home Affairs: Organization
Office~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ of                                                           |        tubi
Minister ~   ~     nfrnstio
Pluming and ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~kA  iise
Seemasal Attaintiat
Gocral                                             Piensegl 1
Planagvnin                 diItaIeGiac                                       AdminisratingiDfes
Local  Regional                                                                    Depantriuns~~~~~~Loca
General  Administration          Planning                ~~~~~~~devrnisnt              Fudnc                    diniratince                  DSI
|ttains  Inrnttl ItaOc  In
I  Offitx o   |                                           ;;~~~~~~~~~~omi  AfeMhtr                                 NtntPltt          |         GiDtn            j
Dlannint                  DivisiD DfIns Diision D i                                                                                                           3          aDivsIos)
Lauel                    Adad -i  Tt|anistreiyl G                                                         AktBtuo|(
Director                  Division                   Dection                   Di viso                   D i (SIt| 1 DivIsIona                    |
-|ntnreservatiion   |g istrti Son                     | 14rtFirePent4 |
Note: lihe Road Development Section is to ba upgraded toe* Roatd Mstnag nt Di Dition-teed Chnt s.
Source: Ministry of Homr Afirt       or                                                                                                                                                   Wortd Bensi-242Dtn
June 19t2



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
MOHA Organization for Road Management
Minister
Vice Minister
General Affairs                                       Office of Planning
Division                                           and Management
(Planning and budgeting coordination)
Bureau of     l                                       Bureau of
Local Finance                                       Local Administrat.
Taxation                    Tax. Admin.              Road Manage                       Finance                  Land Register
Division                   Division      j            Division-l|                  Division                    Division
[~Road               1  r            Road                        Road
Management                  Development                  Maintenance
Section              _       Section                    Section
(5 admin./clericals)          (4 engineers)               (4 engineers)
* Budgetting                . Studies and engineering    * Overall planning and control
. Accounting                 for major improvement       on provincial and gun roads
. External cooperation        project (provincial and    maintenance.
. Road maps and               gun roads).              . Guidance and control on
inventories               . Guidance for studies       equipment special accounts.
and engineering made
by local government.
. Overall guidance and
supervision for provincial
l Proposed                                                        and gun road development
works.
* Road research on construction
Source: Ministry of Home Affairs                                  techniques and supervision
June 1982                                                         methods.                                                           World Bank-24250



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Road Organization at Provincial Level
Governor
Vice Governor
Planning andl
r-_        _            Management.                                         ,I                                      .
r l ~~~~~~~~Office l.l,  
I EngineeringDietrTusdah
Review                                                       Construction                  Trisrt
I   Committee    Iureau                                                                            Bureau
Transport             Account.
I   LDivision                                Division
|  River  l  l       Road       t  s    Housing       {  r       Urban      j                           Road Management
Managemen t            Diavisio n   s        D ivisi on            D ivision                                   Field Office
Division               (RlD) 
Admin.              Construct.             Mainte.              Equipment             Management            Maintenance            Equipment               Branch
Section              Section               Section               Section                Section               Division               Division              Offices
, Property mang.     . Planning            . Planning            . Internalinspec.      * Budget and          1) Paved Road Sec.     I Operation Sec.      . FA works
. Construction       . Programming         . Programming         . Register               accounts               . Maintenance of      . Accounting cost   . Supervision
material pro-      , Studies and         . Studies               private              . Personnel                Paved roads           analyses            of CT works
curement and         design              . Control of            ownership of         . Procurement                                  . Equipment         . Equipment
supply             . Control of            maint.                heavy equip.         . Property            2) Gravel Road Sec.        renewal             operation
. Toll roads           construct.            works                 and inspection         management             . Maintenance                             . Cost account
. Traffic survey       works.              . Road                . Tariffs and          . Others                   of gravel roads    2) Maintenance Sec.
. Gen. affairs                               registers             rates for                                                           . Equipment
own equipment                                                        maintenance
3) Supply Sec.
. Spare parts
supply
. Equipment inspection
Source: Ministry of Home Affairs
June 1982                                                                                                                                                   World Bank-24251



KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
A Typical County (Gun): Organization
|CountY Chief
Vice County Chief
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                     Al                                                     her                  Cosruto                  Civi|a 1       l L Deec
General                 Financial             Agriculture and           Multi-industrial            Fithery                ContrucUon               Civil Detence
|   AtffNirn            Aff irr                  Forestry                Promotion                 Division                 Division    '             Division
Division                Division                  Division                 Division                                                                   Division
Public
_  Saemaul            Information             Administration             Tax Affain               Industrial               Food Grain                 Fiong                  Management               Civil Defense
Officer                                                                Administration                                        Affaims
q   DeveRpment  |  0 +   -|PAacouniantt   |    q        Aticttrel                Livestock          1    Proptaption              Farm l_d                   Training
|Planning and   |Women and                                                   vauation                Forestrv                Sericultural                                      Civil Works
q  nsecio    l-| Statistics    l  q   Land Register                                    A/ Staff of Construction Division
Civil Engineering    B
Administrative     I
Buildings          2
Clerical          24|
Source. Ministry of Home Affairs                     I       
June 1982                                                                                                                                         TOTAL              12                                   World Bank-24252



ANNEX 1
- 78 ~                      Page 1
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Project Tmplementation Schedule
Implementation
Start          Complete
Part A. Gun Road Improvement
Prequalification of contractors                  Sep 17, 1982    Dec 15, 1982
Issue bid invitation to prequalified
contractors                                                     Jan 31, 1983
Receive and open bids, evaluation with
assistance of consultants, receipt
by Bank of Copy of Evaluation Report
and Government recommendations                Mar 15, 1982    May 15, 1983
Appoint consultants for supervision of
improvement works and award contracts         May  1, 1983    Dec 31, 1986
Construction of gun roads                        May 15, 1983    Dec 31, 1986
Part B. Procurement of Road Maintenance Equipment
Prepare equipment list, specifications
and bid documents and submit to Bank
for review (OSROK)                                             Nov 15, 1982
Advertise internationally inviting potential
bidders to apply for bid documents (OSROK)                      Dec 15, 1982
Invite and receive bids for equipment and
spare parts (OSROK)                           Jan 30, 1983    Mar 31, 1982
Evaluation of bids and receipt by
Bank of report on evaluation with
Governments recommendation (OSROK)            Mar 31, 1983    Apr 30, 1983
Award contracts for supply of equipment          First package   May 31, 1983
and spare parts (OSROK)                        Second package  May 31, 1984
Complete delivery of equipment and spare         First package   November 1983
parts (OSROK)                                  Second package  November 1984



79-                            ANNEX 1
Page 2
Implementation
Start          Complete
Part C. Provincial and Gun Road Pilot
Maintenance Program
Establish and staff Road Management Section              -           Dec 31, 1982
Establish and staff Road Maintenance Section             -            Apr 30, 1983
Establish and staff the Road Management
Division in MOHA                                                   Dec 31, 1984
Appoint technical assistance consultants                              July 1, 1983
Preparation and implementation of
maintenance systems, procedures in
accordance with schedule in Consultants'
Terms of Reference                               Aug. 1, 1983
Implementation of the maintenance program
for the 3 pilot provinces and for paved
roads in other provinces                         Aug. 1, 1983    In progress
Submission to IBRD of review and program
evaluation of pilot                                                Sep  1, 1984
Agreement with IBRD on recommendations
for proceeding with maintenance program
in remaining 6 provinces                               -           Nov  1, 1984
Implement maintenance in all provinces             Dec  1, 1984    In progress
Part D. Consulting Services
Detailed Engineering for 1,000 km at
country roads                                    May  1, 1983       Apr 1, 1984
Assistance in implementing an on-site
training program for Korean contractors
and MOHA and MOC engineers in DBST               May  1, 1983    Jun 30, 1983
Study for the integrated investment
planning for roads                               May 1, 1983       Dec 31, 1983
Road Safety Study                                  Jul 1, 1983        Sep 30, 1983
Part E. Overseas Fellowships
Select  candidates                                 Feb  1, 1983    Aug. 1, 1983
Implement training                                       -           Dec 31, 1986



- so  -                                                                        ANNEX 2
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Project Monitorin! Indices
Actual as               Reason for
Project component                                                      Estimated      Actual        of estimated       difference  (if any)         Actions to be taken
1. Gun Road Construction
(a) Contract awards (dates)
(b) Earthworks completed (cu m)
(c) Subbase and base completed (kn)
(d) Paving completed (ki)
(a) Culverts (number)
(f) Bridges (          )
(g) C-ontruction work completed (date)
(h) Maintenance certificate  issued (date)
(i) Comple-on certificate issued
(j) Final cost
2. Supervision at Construction (m/months)
3. Provincial and County Road Maintenance
Prog ram
Provincial Roads
(a) Routine
(b) Periodic
(c) Rehabilitation
County Roads
(a) Routine
(b) Periodic
(c) Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance
(a) Transport economist [planned (n/months)l
(b) Highways engineer (m/months)
(c) Finance -anager/accountant (./months)
(d) Equipment manager (m/months)
4. Detailed Engineering of 1,000 km County Road
(a) Consultsnts selected and contract award (date)
(b) Completion rate (ki)
(c) Experts
(i) Local (n/months)
(ii) Foreign (./montha)
(d) Draft final report (date)
(e) Final report (date)
(f) Completion of engineering drawings
and bid document
5. Studies
Highway Coordination
(a) Consultant contract (date)
(b) Draft final report (date)
(c) Final report (date)
Road Safety
(a) Consultant contract (date)
(b) Draft final report (date)
(c) Final report (date)
6. Contractor Training Program
(a) Consultant contract (date)
(b) Draft final report (date)
(c) Final report (date)
(d) Work completed
(e) Number of trainees
(i) Contractors staff (number)
(ii) Engineers/MOHA and MOC (number)
(f) Completion report (date)
7. Overseas Feilowships
(a) Selection (date)
(b) Implenentation (number, type
of training, duration



- 81 -                        ANNEX_3
KOREA
PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
A.1. "Korea - Transport Statistics" prepared by AEPT1.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1.  "Gun Road Development Study" Final Report dated December 1981 prepared
by BCEOM and Saman Engineering Corporation
B.2.  "Provincial and Gun Road Maintenance Study" Final Report dated
December 1981 prepared by BCEOM and Saman Engineering Corporation
B.3.  "Detailed Engineering Services of Gun Roads" Final Report prepared by
BCEOM and Korean Consultants, dated September 1982
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1.  Calculations of Economic Benefits and Costs for County Road Projects
C.2.  Calculations of Economic Benefits and Costs for Provincial and County
Road Maintenance Program
C.3.  Engineering Drawings for County Roads
C.4.  Detailed maps showing location of County Roads






127"                                   12Y            -09
CHINA                 .R                    DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF KOREA
OFf KOEA JAA
Y.,   I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
,^7repOEMto   e       2 EEOLEU Jr                                               '                       B t,
h drRAP sOFm KoRE                                                                            \RW a o8_ 11 7   '?14  '    OOthzsr
Wgi li,  d7nh bn -  p'e1 -d bv  crn, t  h-  t
RPBIf'oacrcelcnof                                                             s          hodm r  C@ ><t             5;g-- 'D->  A   .)  19_
OP KOE               . JPA         8"
~~~f M. -d- ~ ~       ~       I                                  sseg-
di~ ~ ~~, hfn \;. _1 E( / Xnha<                                                              51    9/zs
126"~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
! ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   B3-2u  
Ths|7 SosP b  eu;en\ prpoo Sp t4he        -              f
Wand~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ondrr Seek' scf sea fssl Fe,oly/;                                                         A
hcccccciaeiso she."" 711 tAn Iccap ~~ ~          ~            ~           Ayo 
Mv;an>] '  >   49D' n!,   v             ri            lDn               ~REPUBLIC OF KOREA
DDngwerl wZ ee3    f  , v    e    ulmar; }             PROVINCIAL AND COUNTY ROADS PROJECT
Jando>.  (  I  f 62i | D fD 9  !  \ B nDrae                        *i  ~~~EXPRESSWAfy
{s S S   ft_>  SE.            |                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPRESSWAYIPLANffEDI
Wend 'e end  9Ys f   aNATIONAL  OADSAV aD
PROVINCIAL ROADS(PAVED)
----- -- PROVII:CIAL ROADSIUNPAVEDi
PROJECT ROADS                                   F FI-s Proj-c 769 KO
w    CONSTRUJCTION AND IMPROVEMEN'TS jThurd P olg t 1203 KO "
3                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COUNTY ROADS IMPROVEMIENT PROGRAM)
.  MAINTENANCE ORGAhlZATION IPILOTPROVINCES}
hI oCCeftlXlcscfSlIcRoolOhdentC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~9A 111Y
t3 INTERNATIONfiL AIRPORTS
j  PORTS
PEOVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
)    Ssu n pan                                           -  -  -- - ~~~~~~~~~~~INTER.NATIONAL BOUNDARIES
hvnil/  r;J~~~~~~~~~~~~<  S ~~~KILOMETERSO                                           20        40        1 B0    S0       l9
(                                                                  N11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLES                                    Et
_  _               12P                                       t~~           ~~                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~289  123p8I



