Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB2166   
Project Name 
MX Competitiveness DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (56.25%); Secondary Education 
(6.25%); General transportation sector (12.5%); Ports, waterways, 
and shipping (12.5%); General energy sector (12.5%). 
Project ID 
P098299 
Borrower(s) 
MEXICO 
Implementing Agency 
Secretariat of Economy 
Date PID Prepared 
February 1, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 19, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
March 14, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
While the Mexican economy has been improving throughout this decade and extreme poverty has been 
reduced, the economy has not grown at the rates necessary to significantly generate jobs. Real GDP per 
capita only grew at an annual rate of 1.2 percent between 1994 and 2004. In contrast, GDP per capita 
grew at 3.3 percent in Chile, 7.7 percent in China, and 5.9 percent in the East Asia and Pacific region as 
a
whole. Productivity growth has also been disappointing and Mexico has been losing its share of the 
U.S. import market, mainly to China. In addition, comprehensive competitiveness measures from a 
variety of sources show that Mexico is lagging, especially relative to per capita income. All of these 
results point to an urgent need to enhance competitiveness in Mexico if the country is going to further 
reduce poverty. With this aim, the World Bank would support a three-phase Programmatic 
Competitiveness Development Policy Loan (DPL). 
 
2.  Operation Objectives  
 
The proposed loan supports institutional and policy reforms that will increase competitiveness and 
productivity in Mexico. Specifically, actions supported by the loan aim to: a) promote technological 
innovation; b) improve training and education levels of the workforce; c) reduce the cost of doing 
business; d) facilitate new business entry; e) strengthen economic competition; f) streamline trade 
procedures and lower trade costs; g) facilitate customs clearance; h) improve the quality of port services; 
and i) implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments for the energy sector. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Mexico Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) seeks to improve competitiveness since it is one of the 
aims of the Government’s National Development Plan. The CPS proposed a multi-year program of 
Analytic and Advisory Activities (AAA) in the area of competitiveness and trade for FY05-FY08 that 
could lead to policy-based programmatic operations, complemented by investment operations in 
innovation and technology, higher education and lifelong learning, infrastructure both at the federal and 
state levels, and access to financial services and property rights. While a specific competitiveness DPL 
Page  2
was not envisaged in the CPS, work on the AAA convinced the Government and Bank team that such a 
loan would be an efficient way to support Mexico’s broad-based competitiveness agenda. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The $300.76 million loan is a commitment-linked Fixed Spread Loan (FSL), US dollar-denominated 
payable in 15 years, including a 5-year grace period with level repayments at the standard rate for US 
dollar-denominated FSLs. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Each one of the sectoral ministries and agencies involved in this operation will be responsible for 
implementation of the proposed components of the operation and for reporting progress. The Secretariat 
of Economy (SE) will be responsible for coordinating actions among the sectoral agencies. The 
administration of this loan will be the responsibility of Nacional Financiera S.N.C. (NAFIN), as 
financial agent of the Federal Government.  
 
6.   Benefits and Risks 
 
Mexican growth and productivity stand to improve through programs that tackle constraints to 
competitiveness in a wide variety of sectors. As a result, standards of living should go up and poverty 
should fall in the medium term. Measures aimed at reducing costs of business entry and regulatory 
compliance are expected to reduce fixed costs and the burden of bribery. Formalization of businesses 
should increase local government revenues, providing the fiscal space to municipalities to increase 
social investments, and increase employees’ access to social security, training opportunities, and 
pensions. Improved application of the anti-trust law at a decentralized level will also help improve the 
business environment for small businesses and their opportunities in the market. Increased efficiency of 
customs and ports will reduce corruption and allow businesses to speed up delivery times.  
 
The actions supported by the loan should have a direct and positive impact on the level and the quality 
of employment of skilled labor. Increased issuance of secondary education certificates to adults has the 
potential to increase incomes. Increased trade is expected to bring long-term benefits in terms of 
competitiveness, economic growth, and employment generation. In the energy sector, increasing 
transparency and accountability should have positive effects on the efficiency and the quality of service 
delivery.  
 
The main risks faced by the proposed operation are associated with the political transition that will take 
place as a result of the presidential elections scheduled for July 2006. While the program has developed 
a
significant sense of ownership and commitment among the different stakeholders, a new 
administration may choose to shift priorities within or away from the program. As a mitigation strategy, 
the second loan is planned for mid 2007 in order to provide enough opportunity for the Bank to establish 
a
dialogue with the new administration on the competitiveness program. The choice of instrument also 
reduces the political risk: a single-tranche DPL in a medium-term framework allows adaptation to 
changes on the ground.  
 
A
further political risk mitigation strategy has been to include the private sector in the formulation of the 
country’s competitiveness priorities. Engagement with the private sector has meant that the GOM’s 
Competitiveness Agenda and the areas that the DPL addresses are in line with the constraints perceived 
by the private sector. This broad public consensus around the program decreases the risk that the next 
administration will shift priorities. Lastly, political risk is limited by not including major labor and 
Page  3
energy structural reforms that are politically sensitive and could engender opposition from one or more 
of the major political parties. In this sense, the Bank-supported actions are non-controversial.  
 
6.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed program seeks to enhance competitiveness, which is an important driver of growth and 
therefore of poverty reduction. Nearly all the countries that have had long term success in reducing 
poverty have done so with higher rates of economic growth. In addition to driving growth, the actions 
supported by this operation would have significant positive social benefits at the microeconomic level. 
These include reduced regulatory costs for small businesses and citizens, improved job skills for 
workers through training programs, and increased employment opportunities from trade, among others. 
These positive impacts are also described in the Benefits section above. 
 
The 
country policies supported by the proposed loan do not entail significant effects on Mexico’s 
environment, forests, or other natural resources. Although some minor effects are possible, any effects 
are likely on balance to be either positive or benign.   
 
7. Contact point 
 
Contact:  Jose L. Guasch 
Title:  Sr. Regional Advisor, Regulation and Competition 
Tel: (202) 473-8606 
Email: Jguasch@worldbank.org 
 
8.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
