Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1884 
Operation Name 
MX Competitiveness DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (70%);General transportation 
sector (10%);General public administration sector (10%);General 
energy sector (5%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(5%) 
Project ID 
P098299 
Borrower(s) 
MEXICO 
Implementing Agency 
Secretariat of the Economy 
Date PID Prepared 
October 12, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 1, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 21, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
While the Mexican economy has been improving throughout the last decade, it has not done so at the 
rates necessary to significantly generate jobs or reduce poverty. Real GDP per capita only grew at an 
annual rate of 1.2 percent between 1994 and 2004. In contrast, GDP per capita grew at 3.3 percent in 
Chile, 7.7 percent in China, and 5.9 percent in the East Asia and Pacific region as a whole. Productivity 
growth has also been disappointing and Mexico has been losing its share of the U.S. import market to 
China. In addition, comprehensive competitiveness measures from a variety of sources show that 
Mexico is lagging, especially relative to per capita income. All of these results point to an urgent need to 
upgrade competitiveness in Mexico if the country is going to successfully grow and compete with East 
Asia.  
 
Aware of its predicament, the Government of Mexico (GOM) declared increasing country 
competitiveness to be a key priority of the Fox Administration in 2003 and created a Competitiveness 
Agenda in 2004. The World Bank has supported these efforts through the Mexico Country Partnership 
Strategy which proposed a multi-year program of Analytic and Advisory Activities (AAA) in the area of 
competitiveness and trade for FY05-FY08 that could lead to programmatic and investment operations. 
The proposed Development Policy Loan (DPL) is an extension of those efforts.  
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
Although it is too early to see tangible outcomes in many areas of implementation of the government’s 
Competitiveness Agenda, several positive actions have been taken to date. Based on these and an 
extensive analysis of Mexico’s barriers to competitiveness, including focus groups, AAA work, and 
independent studies, the proposed Programmatic Competitiveness DPL will support faster growth and 
poverty alleviation in Mexico. More specifically, the proposed loan will: 
a)  Build on past competitiveness efforts, strengthen new and existing programs, and promote a 
holistic, cross-government approach to improving productivity in order to accelerate growth and 
increase export and employment levels; 
Page  2
b)  Contribute to the formulation of a Medium-Long Term Competitiveness policy agenda and help 
lay a solid foundation of competitiveness programs in advance of the next administration, which 
takes office in December 2006. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The World Bank would support the achievement of the overall objectives through a three phase 
Programmatic Competitiveness DPL. The first phase would support policy and institutional reforms in 
the five areas of the Government’s Competitiveness Agenda:  
a)  Reduce logistics costs to make the delivery of products within Mexico and their transfer out-
of/into Mexico more competitive. 
b)  Improve the investment climate through trade and regulatory improvement to reduce costs to 
businesses and enhance trade. 
c)  Modernize the energy sector, improving transparency regulations, increasing security of supply, 
and reducing the cost of the natural gas supply. 
d)  Reduce uncertainty and costs regarding property rights to increase access to financial services, 
reduce the cost of financing, and enhance financial innovation.  
e)  Increase the efficient use of modern operating technologies, the adoption and adaptation of new 
ones, and improve the capacity of Mexico’s labor force and the functioning of the labor market. 
 
The second phase of the DPL would begin in mid-2007, allowing the new administration a semester to 
transition into office. 
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
 
The reforms supported by the proposed loan are not expected to have any significant effect on the 
environment.  Rather, some of the actions of the proposed program would have positive effects, 
especially those associated with diversification and the increase of non-fossil fuel power generation, the 
regulatory measures that will promote improvements in technical performance and the actions to ensure 
appropriate radioactive waste management. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
300 
 Total 
300 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Jose L. Guasch 
Title: Regional Advisor, Regulation and Competition 
Tel: (202) 473-8606 
Fax: (202) 522-2106 
Email: Jguasch@worldbank.org
 
