                                             Documentof
                                           The World Bank


                                   FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            Report No. 34570-MX




      INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                      PROGRAMDOCUMENT

           FORA PROPOSEDFIRSTPROGRAMMATIC COMPETITIVENESS

                                DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN

                            INTHE AMOUNT OF US$300.76 MILLION

                                                   TO

                                THE UNITEDMEXICANSTATES




                                           February 2,2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Colombiaand Mexico Country ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegion



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.1

             UNITEDMEXICANSTATES FISCALYEAR    -
                          January 1-December 31

                        CURRENCY      EQUIVALENTS
             (Exchange RateEffective as of February 2,2006)

                    Currency Unit               Peso
                             10.46Pesos = US$l

                        WEIGHTSAND MEASURES
                               Metric System

                  ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

AAA       Analytic and Advisory Activities
AGA       General CustomsAdministration (Administracidn General de Aduanas)
APEC      Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
API       Integral Port Administration (Administraciones Portuarias Integrales)
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
AVANCE    Programof High Value Added inBusinesses with Knowledge and
          Businessmen(ProgramadeAlto ValorAgregado en Negocios con
          Conocimiento y Empresarios)
BEE       Business EnablingEnvironment
CCE       Business CoordinationCouncil (Consejo Coordinador Empresarial)
CEC       Center for Studies on Competitiveness (Centro de Estudios para la
          Competitividad)
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFC       Federal Competition Commission (Comisidn Federal de Competencia)
CFE       Federal Electricity Commission (ComisidnFederal de Electricidad)
CIMO      Comprehensive Quality andModernizationProgram (Calidad lntegral y
          Modernizacidn)
CIPI      Intersecretarial Industrial Policy Commission (Comisidn Intersecretarial de
          Poli'tica Industrial)
COFEMER   Federal Regulatory Improvement Commission (Comisidn Federal de
          Mejora Regulatoria)
COFETEL   Federal Telecommunications Commission(Comisidn Federal de
          Telecomunicaciones)
CONACYT   National Science and Technology Council (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y
          Tecnologi'a)
CONEVyT   National Council of Educationfor Life and Work (Consejo Nacional de
          Educacidn para la Viday el Trabajo
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
CRE       Energy Regulatory Commission (ComisidnReguladora de Energi'a)
DOF       Diario Oficial
DPL       Development Policy Loan
ENESTYC   National Survey of Employment, Wages, Technology and Training
FDI       Foreign Direct Investment
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
Fh4       Financial management
FTA       Free Trade Agreement
FY        Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross Domestic Product

GEF        Global Environment Facility
GNI        Gross National Income
GOM        Government of Mexico
IBRD       InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA        Investment Climate Assessment
IDA        InternationalDevelopment Association
IDB        Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
IFAI       Federal Instituteof Access to Public Information (Znstituto Federal de
           Acceso a la Informacidn Pu'blica)
IFC        InternationalFinance Corporation
IMF        InternationalMonetary Fund
IMCO       Mexican Competitiveness Institute (Znstituto Mexican0 para la
           Competitividad)
INEA       National Instituteof Adult Education (Znstituto Nacional de Educacidn para
            10s Adultos)
INEGI      National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Informatics (Znstituto
           Nacional de Estadistica, Geografia e Informdtica)
PER        Infrastructure Public ExpenditureReview
I S 0      InternationalOrganization for Standardization
JICA       JapanInternational Cooperation Agency
LAC        Latin America and Caribbean Countries
LDP        Letter of Development Policy
LFC         Central Light and Power (Luz y Fuerza Centro)
LFPA        Federal Administrative ProceduresLaw (Ley Federal de Procedimiento
           Administrativo)
LIC         Labor Intermediation Center
LPG         LiquidPetroleumGas
LSPEE       Electric Energy Public Service Law (Ley del Sewicio Pu'blico de Energia
            Eltktrica)
MDGs        MillenniumDevelopment Goals
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MTEF        Medium-Tern Expenditure Framework
NAFIN       NacionalFinanciera S.N.C.
NAFTA       North American Free Trade Agreement
NOMS        Official Mexican Norms (Normas Ofciales Mexicanas)
 OECD       Organization for Economic Cooperationand Development
 PAC        Training Support Program (Programa de Apoyo a la Capacitacidn)
 PCIS       Port community information systems
 PECyT      Special Plan for Science and Technology (Programa Especial de Cienciay
            Tecnologi'a)
 PEMEX      Mexican Petroleum (Petroleos Mexicanos)
 PER        Public Expenditure Review
 PITEX      Temporary Import Programto Produce Articles for Export (Programa de
            Importacidn Temporal para Producir Arti'culos de Exportacidn)
 PROFECO    Federal Consumer ProtectionAgency (Procuraderia Federal del
            Consumidor)
 PROSEC     Sectoral Promotion Programs (Programas de Promocidn Sectorial)
 PROSENER   Energy Sector Program 2001-2006(Programa Sectorial de Energia 2001-
            2006)
 R&D        Researchand Development
 RBP        Regulatory Betterment Program
 RIA        Regulatory Impact Assessment

RFTS       Federal Registry o f Procedures and Services (Registro Federal de Trdmites
           y Servicios)
S A A I    Integral Automated Customs System (SistemaAutomatizado Aduanero
           Integral)
SAGARPA    Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries and
           Food (Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y
           Alimentacibn)
SARE       Rapid Business Opening System (Sistemade Apertura Rdpida de Empresas)
SE         Secretariat o f Economy (Secretaria de Economia)
SEMARNAT   Secretariat of the Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaria de Medio
           Ambiente y RecursosNaturales)
SENER      Secretariat of Energy (Secretaria de Energi'a)
SFP        Secretariat of Civil Service (Secretaria de Funcibn Pu'blica)
SHCP       Secretariat o f Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Crkdito
           Pu'blico)
SME        Small and mediumenterprise
SICEX      Comprehensive Foreign Trade System (SistemaIntegral de Comercio
           Exterior)
SNI        National Researchers System (SistemaNacional de Znvestigadores)
SOE        State-owned enterprise
ss         Secretariat of Health (Secretaria de Salud)
S&T        Science and Technology
STPS       Secretariat of Labor and Social Security (Secretaria del Trabajo y Previsio'n
           Social)
TA         Technical assistance
TFP        Total Factor Productivity
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USAID      United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
USD        United States Dollars
WBI        World BankInstitute
WEF        World Economic Forum
WTO        World Trade Organization




                       Vice President: Pamela Cox
                    Country Director: Isabel M.Guerrero
                       Sector Director:   Makhtar Diop
                      Sector Manager:     Susan Goldmark
                     Lead Economist:      David Rosenblatt
                        Sector Leader:    Anna Wellenstein
                   Task TeamLeader:       Jose L.Guasch
               Co-Task Team Leader:       Keta Ruiz

                                                                       MEXICO
    FIRSTPROGRAMMATICCOMPETITIVENESSDEVELOPMENTPOLICYLOAN
                                                       TABLEOFCONTENTS

  LOANPROGRAMSUMMARY.                                                                                                                                                        ..
  I. INTRODUCTION                   .............................................................................................................................
                                               ..................................................................................................................           II
                                                                                                                                                                             1
  11.       COUNTRY CONTEXT                  ....................................................................................................................            3
                RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINMEXICO......................................................                                                                   ..4
                MACROECONOMICOUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY .....................................                                                                           6
  111.      BANK SUPPORT TO MEXICO'S COMPETITIVENESS                                                        ..........................................................       7
                LINKTO CPS......................................................................................................
                COLLABORATION WITH THE IMFAND OTHER DONORS.......................
                RELATIONSHIPTO OTHERBANK OPERATIONS.............................................................                                                             8
                LESSONSLEARNED................................................
                ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS..........................                                                             ......................................... 10
  IV.       THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM                                ................................................................................................           14
  V.        THE PROPOSEDFIRSTPROGRAMMATICCOMPETITIVENESSDPL....                                                                                 ..........................   20
                OPERATIONDESCRIPTION............................................................................
                POLICY AREAS .................................................................................................
  VI.       OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION...                                  ...........................................................................................          38
                POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACTS ........................................................................                                                         ..38
                PUBLIC PARTICIPATION .....................................................................................................                                  .42
                IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION...............................................                                                                    .43
                FIDUCIARY ASPECTS, DISBURSEMENT,AND AUDITING...........
                ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS .............................................................
                RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION............................................................................................ 46

                                                                        ANNEXES
   ANNEX 1: LETTEROF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY                             ................................................................................................
                                                                                    ................................................................................         48
   ANNEX 2:. BANK-SUPPORTEDMATRIX                                                                                                                                            86
   ANNEX 3: GOVERNMENTPROGRAMMATRIX.                                              .................................................................................          91
   ANNEX 4: GROWTHDIAGNOSTICFRAMEWORK                                                  .............................................................................         100
   ANNEX 5: ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS                                     ..........................................................................................          101
   ANNEX 6: DETAILEDPOLICY AREA DESCRIPTIONS                                .......................................................................................
                                                                                              .......................................................................        112
   ANNEX 7: THE MEXICAN ENERGYSECTOR                                                                                                                                         146
   ANNEX 8: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE                              .......................................................................................................           161
   ANNEX 9: COUNTRYAT A GLANCE                              ......................................................................................................           165
   ANNEX 10: MEXICO- OPERATIONSPORTFOLIO(IBRDDDA)AND GRANTS                                                                                   ............................   167
   ANNEX 11: STATEMENTOF IFC'S HELD AND DISBURSEDPORTFOLIO
                  ................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                     ....................................    168
   REFERENCES                                                                                                                                                                169
   MAP IBRD33447     ............................................................................................................................................            175

The Competitiveness DPL was preparedby an IBRDteam consistingof Jose L.Guasch (TaskTeamLeader, LCSFP),
Keta Ruiz (Co-Task TeamLeader, LCClA), DavidMichaelGould(LCSPR), Jose A. Barber0 (LCSFT), John S. Wilson
(DECRG), GabrielaElizondoAzuela (LCSFE), IsabelSanchez Garcia (LCSFR), Anna Maria Sant'Anna(LCSHE),
BenjaminHerzberg(CICEA), Thomas Haven (LCSFP), Victor Ordoiiez (LCOAA), William Reuben(LCSEO), Veronica
Andino (LCSEO), Jozef Draaisma(LCSPE), Juan Carlos Alvarez (LEGLA), Regis Cunningham (LOAGl), Jocelyn
Troncoso (LCSFF),and KarinaKashiwamoto(LCSFP).

The teambenefitedfrom commentsfrom peer reviewers: ShahidYusuf (DECRG), Axel Peuker (MDS), Alfred Watkins
(ECSPF),CharlesFeinstein(LCSFP), Uma Subramanian(CICFA) and Mark Dutz (SASFP), as well as from other Bank
staff includingTodd Crawford (LCOQE), JanWalliser (OPCCE), William Maloney (LCRCE), GladysLopez-Acevedo
(LCSPP), HongTan (WBIFP), Kevin Barnes(SFRCR), Reidar Kvam(LCSEO), Ernest0 Sanchez-Triana(LCSEN),
MuthukumaraMani (ENV), MoragVan Praag (LOAGl), Carine Clert (ESDVP), FerencE.Molnar (LEGLA), Guillermo
Perry (LCRCE), DanielBoyce(LCClC), and McDonaldBenjamin(LCSEO). The teamalso benefitedfrom contributions
fromMartinNaranjoLanderer (LCSFF), Roberto 0.Panzardi(LCSPS), WaleedHaiderMalik (LCSPS), Edgardo
MosqueiraMedina(LCSPS), and Roberto Senderowitsch(LCSPS).

                             LOANPROGRAMSUMMARY

                                            MEXICO
   FIRSTPROGRAMMATICCOMPETITIVENESSDEVELOPMENT POLICYLOAN

Borrower       The United Mexican States

[mplementing   Secretariat of Economy
4gency
4mount         US$300,760,000

rerms          The borrower has requested that the loan be a fixed spread loan in US dollars, commitment
               linkedwith a total maturity of 15 years and a grace period of 5 years. The borrower has
               opted to finance the front-end fee with the proceeds of the loan. Standard commitment
               charge of 0.85% for the first 4 years and 0.75% per annum thereafter.
l'ranching     One tranche to be disbursed upon effectiveness

Description    The proposed loan will support the first stage of the Government of Mexico (G0M)'s
               medium term program to improve Mexico's lagging competitiveness. Specifically, the loan
               aims to:


                 a. Build on past competitiveness efforts, strengthen new and existing programs, and
                      promote a holistic, cross-governmental approach to improving productivity in order to
                      accelerategrowth and increaseexport and employment levels; and
                 b. Contribute to the formulation of a medium-to-long term competitiveness policy agenda
                      and help lay a solid foundation of competitiveness programs in advance of the next
                      administration, which takes ofice in December 2006.

               The World Bank would support the achievement of the overall objectives through a three-
               phase Programmatic Competitiveness Development Policy Loan (DPL). The first phase
               would support policy and institutional reforms in the following areas: a) innovation.
               technology development, and training; b) the investment climate; c) logistics and trade
               facilitation; and d) energy. These areas are based on the central pillars of the GOM's
               Competitiveness Agenda, with the exception of financial deepening, which i s left to          E
               separate but concurrent Finance DPL. The second phase of this DPL is planned for mid-
               2007, allowing the new administration a semester to transition into office.

               This loan buildson Banksupport to Mexico on competitiveness issuessince 2003. Since thai
               time, the Bank has conducted competitiveness focus groups, helped the GOM formulate it:
               Competitiveness Agenda, and completed the first phase of a competitiveness AAA tha
               involved a wide range of technical assistanceand analytical work.

               While the Mexican economy has been improving throughout this decade and extremz
               poverty has been reduced, the economy has not grown at the rates necessary to significantlj
               generatejobs. Real GDP per capita only grew at an annual rate of 1.2 percent between 199L
               and 2004. Incontrast, GDP per capita grew at 3.3 percent in Chile, 7.7 percent in China, anc
               5.9 percent in the East Asia and Pacific region as a whole. Productivity growth has also beer
               disappointing and Mexico has been losing its share of the U.S. import market, mainly tc
               China. In addition, comprehensive competitiveness measures from a variety of sources shop
               that Mexico i s lagging, especially relative to per capita income. All of these results point to
               an urgent need to enhance competitiveness in Mexico if the country i s going to further
               reduce poverty.




                                                  11

3enefits    Mexican growth and productivity stand to improve through programs that tackle constraints
            :o competitiveness in a wide variety of sectors. As a result, standards o f living should go up
            mdpoverty should fall inthe mediumterm.

            More specifically, this loan aims to improve the capacity of small business to participate in
            the formal market and to increase their competitiveness. This is extremely important
            :onsidering that SMEs may represent as much as three quarters of total employment in
            Mexico, and 40 percent of the active population works in the informal sector. Specific
            measures will have major positive impacts as follows: (1) Measures aimed at reducing costs
            of business entry and regulatory compliance are expected to reduce fixed costs and the
            burden of bribery; (2) Formalization of businesses should increase local government
            revenues, providing the fiscal space to municipalities to increase social investments, and
            increase employees' access to social security, training opportunities, and pensions; (3)
            Improved application of the anti-trust law at a decentralized level will also contribute to
            improve the business environment for small businessesand their opportunities in the market:
            (4) Improved efficiency of customs and ports will reduce corruption and benefit businesses
            interested in improving their delivery time.

            The actions supported by the loan should have a direct and positive impact on the level and
            the quality of employment of skilled labor. Increased issuance of secondary educatior
            certificates to adults has the potential to increase incomes: household heads with a secondarj
            education earn, on average, roughly 40 percent more than those without. Increased trade i s
            expected to bring long-term benefits in terms of competitiveness, economic growth, anc
            employment generation. In the energy sector, increasing transparency and accountabilitj
            should have positive effects on the efficiency and the quality of service delivery.
Risks       The proposed program faces two main risks, one political and one institutional. The politica
            risk is associated with the presidential elections planned for July 2006. While the progran
            has developed a significant sense of ownership and commitment among the differen
            stakeholders, a new administration may choose to shift priorities within or away from the
            program. As a mitigation strategy, the second loan i s planned for mid 2007 in order to
            provide enough opportunity for the Bank to establish a dialogue with the new administration
            on the competitiveness program. The choice of instrument also reduces the political risk: a
            single-tranche DPL in a medium-term framework allows adaptation to changes on the
            ground. Another mitigating factor is that the second phase of the Mexico Competitiveness
            AAA will be completed by early 2006 and will provide an opportunity and basis for
            engagement with the various stakeholders and the new administration on the proposed
            competitiveness-enhancing reforms.

            A further political risk mitigation strategy has been to include the private sector in the
            formulation of the country's competitiveness priorities. Engagement with the private sector
            has meant that the GOM's Competitiveness Agenda and the areas that the DPL addresses are
            in line with the constraints perceived by the private sector. This broad public consensus
            around the bases of the program decreases the risk that the next administration will shift
            priorities. Lastly, political risk i s also limited by not including major labor and energy
            structural reforms that are politically sensitive and could engender opposition from one or
            more of the major political parties. I n this sense, the Bank-supported actions are non-
            controversial. An alternative, to avoid the political risk of the transition, is to only continue
            engagement on competitiveness through the AAA. However, this alternative has been ruled
            out since it does not provide continuity to existing programs or promote a medium term
            holistic, cross-governmental program for improving productivity.

            Institutional coordination issues also present a risk. A competitiveness program i s
            necessarily a broad operation that involves many secretariats and agencies and there is a risk
            that all of these agencies could have difficulties coordinating among themselves. This risk
            again, has been mitigated by the choice as lead counterpart in the GOM of the Secretariat oj


                                                ...
                                                111

              Economy, which has the technical credibility and has proved to be a capable coordinator
              during preparation. Pastexperiencefrom elsewhere also suggests that this design can work.

              Mexico faces macroeconomic risks related to a possible deterioration of the currently
              favorable external environment. Debt Sustainability Analysis shows Mexico's overall
              resilience to plausible shocks. According to the analysis performed by the IMF as part of its
              2005 Article IV Consultation, standardized stress tests, based on the historical volatility of
              key macroeconomic variables for the past 10 years, indicate that the level of public debt
              would not increase substantially over the medium term if macro conditions turned out to be
              significantly worse than projected. However, the analysis also notes that more extreme
              shocks or a combination of shocks-such         as a sudden permanent decline in oil prices, a
              "hard landing" in the United States, or an arbitrary shock to market confidence in Mexican
              assets-would    result in a rise in the public sector financing requirement, reflecting the still
              relatively short average maturity of domestic debt. Aware of the potential threats to financial
              stability stemming from such shocks, the GOM has dedicated significant efforts to
              developing the domestic government bond market over the past few years and has made
              substantial progress, diversifying the investor base and extending the yield curve. Additional
              measuresto mitigate the risk of public debt refinancing have also been taken.
OperationID
Number        PO98299




                                                  iv

       INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENTFOR
               A PROPOSEDFIRSTPROGRAMMATICCOMPETITIVENESS
                                   DEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN
                                TO THE UNITEDMEXICANSTATES


                                          I. INTRODUCTION

1.    Mexico has shown lackluster growth and productivity performance in recent years. Over the
last decade, Mexico has benefited from a relatively stable economy and has avoided the pattern of
financial crises that have plagued many of its past political cycles, thanks in large part to prudent fiscal
and monetary policies. Despite this stability, structural economic constraints have held back growth and
therefore poverty reduction. Growth rates have beenparticularly low over the last decade when compared
with similar income countries in East Asia. While real GDP per capita in Mexico only grew at an annual
rate of 1.2 percent between 1994 and 2004, it grew at 7.7 percent in China, and at 5.9 percent on average
inthe East Asia and Pacific region. Productivity growth rateshave also beendisappointing. Annual labor
productivity growth was negative in Mexico between 1990 and 2004 (Figure l),                    in sharp contrast to
strong positive growth rates in Chile and Argentina. The share of growth attributable to total factor
productivity was also negative on average between 1980 and 2003, although there has been a slight
increase inrecent years (Figure2).

    Figure 1: Annual Labor Productivity Growth,              Figure 2: Growth Accounting in Mexico, 1960-2003
              Early 1990sto Early 2000s                         - (Contributionsto GDPGrowthinPercent)
    0.06                                                        7
    0.05                                                                           0 GDPDCapitalrnLabor mTFP
    0.04
    0.03                                                        4

    0.02
    0.01
       0
   -0.01
          U                              --."-I1                -1   `
   -0'02 Colombia Mexico
        '                    Brazil   Chile   Argentina '              1965-1979        1980-2003       1996-2003


Note: Argentina: 1991-2001;Brazil: 1990-2002;Chile:          Note: Numbers are for real GDP growth (not GDP per

 1990-2003;Colombia: 1996-2000;Mexico:1990-2004.             capita).

 Source: Multiple, compiled by World Bank (2005~).           Source: Faal (2005).



 2.    Given the productivity numbers, it is not surprising that comprehensive competitiveness
 measures show Mexico to be weak relative to per capita income-and                       getting worse.' The World
 Economic Forum's 2005-2006 Global Competitiveness Report gives Mexico a rank of 55 out of 117




 'Competitivenessi  s broadly defined as the "collection of factors, policies and institutions which determine the level
 of productivity of a country and that, therefore, determine the level of prosperity that can be attained by an
 economy." World EconomicForum (2005), p.xiii.

countries, down from 48 in 2004.2In comparison, Mexico's GNIper capita rank within that same sample
of countries i s 39. While this gap between income and competitiveness rankings i s not atypical for Latin
America, it indicates that Mexico is falling well short of its potential. Incontrast, Chile, India, China, and
other East Asian economies enjoy competitiveness rankings that exceed their income placing (Figure 3).
The World Bank's Doing Business in 2006 reports similar findings. Mexico ranked 73 (out of 155
countries) on the publication's "Ease of DoingBusiness" scale, compared with an income per capitarank
of 38.

   Figure 3 :Competitivenessversus GNI per Capita                    Figure 4: Share of U.S.imports, Mexico versus China
                          Rankings                                      14%




                                                                         4%
                                                                             1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
      0        PO       40           60          80         I00    i2c
                   GmwthCompetitivenessindex Rank,2005-2006                                   I*Mexico  *China1
Note: Lower-ranking numbers are better.                                 Source: US Census Bureau, Foreign Trade Statistics.
Source: World Economic Forum (2005) and World Bank,
World Development Indicators.

3.    A n often used (albeit imperfect) proxy for competition is export performance. On this basis,
the weak competitiveness of Mexico's economy would be reflected in the reduction in its share of
exports to the United States. Mexico i s highly dependent on the U.S. economy, which absorbs 88
percent of its total exports. After experiencing an export boom in the 1990s thanks to NAFI'A, Mexico
has been losing U.S. market share, particularly to China (Figure 4). Mexico's share of U.S. imports fell
from a high of 11.6percent in 2002 to 10.6 percent in 2004. During that same time period, the Chinese
share went from 10.8 percent to 13.4 percent. According to the governor of the Banco de Mhico, lost
competitiveness has caused the economy to lose an additional US$30 billion in exports to the U.S. and
has restrained economic growth. Particularly worrying i s the fact that Mexico i s losing U.S. market share
in heavy goods such as furniture and household appliances, in which it should have a transport cost
advantage due to its proximity to U.S. markets. While one concern i s that Mexico suffers from high labor
costs, this i s not the whole story. A recent World Bank analysis of the computers and peripherals market
found that while labor accounted for 4 percent of costs in China, it only accounted for 3 percent in
Mexico. In non-leather apparel, labor accounted for 15 percent of costs in China and 20 percent in
Mexico. Clearly, there are other factors impeding Mexican competitiveness.

4.    The Mexican Competitiveness Institute (IMCO) has also shown that the country is lagging.
Out of 45 economies that IMCO defines as Mexico's competitors, the country ranks 31, in the bottom
third, behind Brazil and Thailand among others. IMCO considers ten separate aspects to be critical to a
country's competitiveness, measuredas the ability of a country to attract and retain investment, local and


  This ranking is for the Growth Competitiveness Index. Two countries (Qatar and Kuwait) that were not ranked in
2004 placed ahead of Mexico in2005, accounting for a small part of Mexico's fall.


                                                                    2

foreign. Of those, Mexico falls particularly short on governanceand legal system indicators, foundational
or "precursor" sectors (transport, telecommunications, and financial services), efficient factor markets
(capital, labor, and energy), human capital (education, knowledge and innovation), and environmental
sustainability. Simulations by IMCO show that if Mexico were to improve by 10 percent in all the ten
aspects critical for competitiveness, investment could increase by as much as 60 percent. Among the ten
factors, five (efficient government, trade and international relations, human capital, infrastructure and
governance and legal system indicators) account for 70 of this in~rease.~

5.    Aware of this predicament, the Government of Mexico (GOM) in 2003 declared increasing
country competitiveness to be a key priority of the Fox Administration. This was a response to the
disappointing growth, poverty, inequality, export, and competitiveness indicators as well as concerns
about the country's ability to respond to the pressures imposed by advancing globalization, such as
competitionfrom China and the end of the textile quota systemin 2005.


                                    11.     COUNTRY CONTEXT

6.    A combination of fiscal discipline, prudent monetary policy and a positive international
environment characterized by an improved U.S. economy has fostered continuous economic
growth since mid-2003. The institutional strengthening of Mexican economic policymaking over the last
decade has been reflected in the avoidance of instability during the last presidential transition in 2000
and inthe avoidance of a crisis during the most recent slow down of the US.economy inthe 2001-2002
period. The ensuing recovery, begun in mid-2003, has been broad-based. Business confidence and
investment have risen, foreign direct investment inflows have strengthened, exports have picked up
sharply, and market perceptions of Mexico have remained favorable.

7.    Financial sector stability indicators have continued to improve due to stronger
macroeconomic indicators and continued upgrading of the legal and regulatory framework. Since
the 1994-1995 financial crisis, the two administrations have concentrated their efforts in the financial
system on improving the legal and regulatory framework, strengthening supervision, and fostering the
entrance of foreign financial institutions as the best bulwark against potential instabilities in the system
generatedby macroeconomic shocks. As a result of these initiatives, the main component of the financial
sector, the banking system, has cleaned up its balance sheet and improved its prudential indicators to
above international standards.

8.    Mexico's consistent macroeconomic management during the last decade has generated
confidence in international financial markets with respect to the avoidance of instability duringthe
upcoming electoral period. The period that led to the election of the current Administration broke the
cycle of financial instability that had been associated with previous presidential transitions in Mexico.
International markets reflect at this stage continued confidence in the country and the increased risk
premiumfor sovereign debt that had been observed in the run-up to previous elections contrasts with the
current evolution of Mexican sovereign debt spreads (Figure 5). In addition, as in 2000, Mexican
policymakers are in a position to take additional measures to reduce economic and market vulnerabilities
incase of adverse developments or prolongedpolitical uncertainty. Already, the GOMhas announcedthe
pre-fundingand prepayment of external public debt service obligations due in 2006 and 2007.




  IMCO (2005b).


                                                      3

                                  Figure5: EmergingMarketsRiskPremium


                                                                                 -EM51    Plus

                                                                                     LatinAmerica




                       JmQ4  MarQ4 Maya  JUI M  SBp04 Mv-04  Jan05  Ma105 MayQ5 Ju105   Sep05    NOVO5
                                                           Time
                    Source: JP MorganEmergingMarkets BondIndex(EMBI).



RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINMEXICO
9.   Since mid-2003 the Mexican economy has expanded, amid a global economic recovery and
high international oil prices, but growth is now slowing. After a strong rebound in economic activity
in 2004-when     GDP rose 4.4 percent-the            economy expanded at a more moderate 3 percent rate of
growth in 2005. Global economic growth, high oil prices and export revenues, favorable external
financial conditions, and increased domestic credit stimulated aggregate demand in all of its major
categories-private consumption, investment, exports-raising               economic activity and employment.

10. Continued price stability and increasing domestic credit have also contributed to the
recovery. Price stability, public debt management and policies aimed at financial sector development
allowed for the steady growth of domestic financial savings, while fiscal consolidation reduced the claim
of the public sector on those savings, thereby allowing for a sound expansion in domestic credit to the
private sector. Since mid-2003, for the first time since the 1995 banking crisis, commercial banks'
outstanding credit to the private sector has grown in real terms, leading to higher private consumption
and business investment. In addition, the government managed to extend the domestic yield curve by
issuing longer term fixed rate bonds (up to 20 years), thereby creating an important benchmark for longer
term private sector credit contracts, including mortgage lending.

11. Inflation has come down after a substantial tightening of monetary policy. An increase in
consumer price headline inflation in 2004, mainly attributed to supply shocks in the energy and food
sectors, triggered a cycle of monetary policy tightening that lasted until mid -2005 and increased short-
term interest rates to almost 10percent (annual). Consumer price inflation was effectively brought down
from 5.2% year-on-year in December 2004 to 3.3 percent in December 2005, according to the target 3
(+/- 1) percent. The successful reduction of headline inflation and inflation expectations allowed the
central bank to ease monetary conditions gradually throughout the second half of 2005, bringingdown
short term interest rates to 8.5 percent.

12. The government has kept the deficit within its annual budget targets and in line with its
medium-term goal of fiscal consolidation. Higher than budgeted oil revenue has played an important
role in achieving fiscal targets, compensating for lower tax revenue and higher public investment and


                                                           4

greater revenue sharing with state and municipal governments. Oil-relatedbudget revenue has grown by a
total of almost 2.5 percentage points of GDP over the past three years, allowing the budget deficit to be
cut by almost half that amount, though substantially increasing public sector dependence on oil revenue,
which in2005 accounted for 40 percent of public revenue.

13. A modest external current account deficit has been maintained throughout the recovery due
to strong oil revenue and workers' remittances. The value of external trade resumed double-digit
growth in 2004 after its stagnation throughout the recessive 2001-2003 period. Mexican exports are
closely related to the evolution of U.S. industrial productionbut face increased international competition
as Mexico's share in U.S. imports lost ground over the past two years. Though the non-oil trade balance
i s widening from a deficit slightly under 4 percent of GDP two years ago to a deficit close to 6 percent
currently, the current account balance has kept a steady deficit at around US$8 billion or about 1percent
of GDP. In addition to rapidly increasing oil revenue, the current account is strengthened with strong and
growing household transfers or workers' remittances. These transfers are estimated at almost US$ 20
billion for 2005, or slightly over 2.5 percent of GDP, making up an important revenue stream in the
country's external accounts and inthe subsistence of poorer segments of Mexican society.

14. Mexico's savings rate, at about 19 percent of GDP, is on par with the rest of LatinAmerica,
but is insufficient to provide the investment needed to boost long-term growth (Table 1). Countries
that have been able to break out of low growth paths in the early stages of development, such as East
Asia and Chile, typically have done so with higher rates of investment in fixed capital formation. The
challenge for Mexico over the next 5 to 10 years will be to provide the institutional and legal
environment necessary to encourage more private investment, particularly in infrastructure and the
energy sector, where bottlenecks may constrain or even slow economic activity.

                                                                                       ge 2000-2004)
                                                       Grossfixed          Current
                                   Grossnational         capital           account
                                      Savings          formation           balance
                       Argentina        19.2              15.0               2.4
                       Chile            21.4              21.6               -0.8
                       Mexico           19.4              19.9               -2.0
                       China            42.2              40.7                2.4
                       Korea            31.7              29.8                2.2
                       Thailand         30.3              23.5                5.7
                       USA              16.1              19.0               -4.6
                       L A C            19.3              18.7




  15. Mexico has made progress in many human development indicators and extreme poverty
 reduction, but poverty and inequality remain serious issues. Income per capita (GNI per capita) i s
 US$6,790, among the highest in Latin America; life expectancy at birth has risen to 74 years; the under-
 five mortality rate dropped from 44.2 to 25 per thousand between 1990and 2003; about 89 percent of the
 population has access to clean water; and the literacy rate i s over 97 percent. However, despite important
 achievements in health and education and some progress in extreme poverty reduction over the last five
 years, low and inequitable growth has kept poverty rates high. The percentageof people living in extreme
 poverty was reduced from 24.2 percent in 2000 to 17.3 percent in 2005. Still, the Gini coefficient has
 hovered between 50 and 55, on par with Latin American averages. According to 2004 data, 47.7 percent



                                                      5

of the country's population is poor. The richest ten percent of the population earns over 40 percent of
total income, while the poorest ten percent earns only 1.1 percent.

                     Figure 6: Trends in Inequality (GiniCoefficient Based on Income)
    6Ct


    5 5


    5Ct


    45


    40


    35



    3P
              1992             1994              1898             1998             2050            2002

                         %W@ Lslin Irnertca and the Cartbbesn -4- Rural -Urban    4-Nataonal
   Note: The Latin American averagesare unweighted, there is little difference if weighted averagesare used.
   Source:WB staff calculations from ENIGH,various years, usingthe approved methodology of the Technical
   Committee for Poverty Measurement for the calculation of income. World Bank (2004~).



MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY
16. Mexico's macroeconomic framework is solid Progress in attaining macroeconomic stability is
starting to pay off, with economic growth stabilizing around the economy's current potential output.
Improvements in Mexico's sovereign credit risk ratings are another reflection of such progress and
providereasonable assurance of continued adequateaccess to external finance, even at times of increased
market volatility.

 17. Structural economic and competitiveness constraints and the prevailing legislative gridlock
have reduced Mexico's potential output growth to slightly over 3 percent per year over the
medium term. In addition, the favorable external conditions are unlikely to prevail over the next few
years and the government's projection of 3.6 percent average annual GDP growth for 2006-08 may thus
be difficult to attain. If the resolution of global imbalances were to result in a sharp slowdown in US
growth, there is a risk that the Mexican economy could be adversely affected. Other factors such as
slightly lower oil prices, higher international interest rates, and political uncertainty related to the
presidential elections and change in administration are likely to lead to a more moderate economic
expansion over the next few years, with annual average growth of about 3.0 percent.

 18.   The government's medium-term fiscal framework aims to further advance fiscal
consolidation and reduce public debt. The government's 2006 budget, presented in September, updated
its medium-term fiscal projections for 2006-2009. The projections include ambitious targets for the
budget balance, with a small surplus in 2006, and a drop in off-budget financing. The fiscal consolidation
envisaged inthis framework would reduce net augmented debt to about 32 percent of GDP by 2009, from
41 percent in 2004. Even though this goal i s challenging, the debt-to-GDP ratio remains clearly on a
 sustainable, downward path.




                                                          6

19. Public debt management has diminished the exposure to refinancing, interest and exchange
rate risk. A consistent implementation of the public debt management strategy aimed at reducing
vulnerabilities and long-term financing costs has led to a significant strengthening of the government's
debt structure. The increasing use of longer term fixed rate peso bonds has contributed to an important
increase in the average maturity of domestic public debt. A gradual reduction of external debt, by at least
US$ 500 million a year, has also been part of the debt management strategy for a couple of years, to
reduce the country's exposure to potential market vulnerabilities and external shocks.

20.   Mexico has no Purchases and Loans outstanding with the IMF and maintains periodic
bilateral discussions as part of the Fund's regular surveillance program. The last Article IV
consultation was concluded by the IMFExecutive Board on November 9, 2005. The Executive Directors
commended the Mexican authorities for the improvements they had made in the economic policies,
institutions and structures over the last decade, which have contributed to greater macroeconomic
stability and reduced financial vulnerability. The challenge ahead will be to launch a new round of
structural reforms that will enhance the economy's efficiency and competitiveness and ensure the
transition to a more rapid growth path. The staff report, a Public Information Notice and a statement by
the Executive Director for Mexico have been published in December 2005 and are available on the
internet (www.imf.org).

21.     Debt Sustainability Analysis shows Mexico'soverall resilienceto plausible shocks. According
to the analysis performedby the IMFas part of its 2005 Article IV Consultation, standardized stress tests,
based on the historical volatility of key macroeconomic variables for the past 10 years, indicate that the
level of public debt would not increase substantially over the mediumterm if macro conditions turned out
significantly worse than projected. However, the analysis also notes that more extreme shocks or a
combination of shocks -such as a sudden permanent decline in oil prices, a "hard landing" in the United
States, or an arbitrary shock to market confidence in Mexican assets- would result in a rise in the public
sector financing requirement,reflecting the still relatively short average maturity of domestic debt.


                111.    BANKSUPPORT TO MEXICO'S COMPETITIVENESS

LINKTO CPS
22.   The Mexico Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)4supports a substantial agenda in the area
of competitiveness. The CPS - which sets poverty reduction as its overarching and ultimate objective -
seeks to improve competitiveness, as one of the aims of the Government's National Development Plan
that the CPS seeks to advance. The CPS proposed'a multi-year program of Analytic and Advisory
Activities (AAA) in the area of competitiveness and trade for FY05-FY08 that could lead to policy-based
programmatic operations, complemented by investment operations in innovation and technology, higher
education and lifelong learning, infrastructure both at the federal and state levels, and access to financial
 services and property rights.While a specific competitiveness DPL was not envisaged in the CPS, work
 on the AAA convinced the GOM and Bank team that such a loan would be an efficient way to support
Mexico's broad-based competitiveness agenda. The Competitiveness DPL i s complemented by more
 narrowly focused lending in housing, finance, highways, and innovation (see below).




  World Bank (2004d).


                                                      7

COLLABORATIONWITH THE IMFAND OTHER DONORS
23.   Fundand Bankstaff maintaina regularexchangeonmacropolicy.There is no IMFprogram in
Mexico. The Mexican government does maintain an active policy dialogue with the Fund, however,
through the Fund's bilateral and global surveillance activities. This summer, under Article IV of the
IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF held bilateral discussions with Mexican authorities which were
presented to the IMF Board in early November, as discussed above. No major issues or disagreements
were reported.

24. One of the Bank's main development partnersin Mexico, the Inter-AmericanDevelopment
Bank (IDB), is providingsupport in competitivenessinareascomplementaryto the proposedDPL.
The IDB has recently approved a US$lOO million loan for a Small Exporters Finance Program that
through BANCOMEXT, a public development bank, will support Mexican firms through financial and
advisory services. The IDB also has under implementation a US$600 million Public Financial System
Consolidation Policy Loan. This supports the implementation of reforms in the banlung system to
increase credit to SMEs and improve supervision of the regulated financial organizations, in addition to
supporting modifications to the regulatory framework for the capital markets and to facilitate the access
of SMEs to the capital markets. Inthe area of human capital and training, the US$50 million Multiphase
Skills-Based Human Resources Development Program supports the improvement of the quality and
efficiency of technical education in Mexico, by making technical education more pertinent with respect
to the needs of the productive sector. Through the US$300 million Labor Market Policy Program, the
IDB is supporting worker development, employability, mobility, and productivity in order to make the
workforce more competitive, and to develop capacity for planning, analysis, and programming of labor
sector market policies. The IDB i s also supporting, through the Multilateral Investment Fund and through
Non-Reimbursable Technical Cooperation, initiatives for risk financing for technology ventures, SME
support, formalization, and micro credit initiatives. The team has met with IDB staff to coordinate efforts
and to ensure that synergies are exploited.

25.   Other donorswho providesupportin areascomplementaryto the proposedDPL are the U.S.
Agency for InternationalDevelopment(USAID) and the Japan InternationalCooperationAgency
(JICA). USAID is supporting programs for broadening access to finance for micro-enterprises and has
been recently collaborating with the Bank's DoingBusiness department on implementing the
DoingBusiness indicators in 12 cities in Mexico. JICA has technical cooperation programs in technical
training and industrial development for SMEs. The OECD maintains a continuous dialogue on economic
analytical work and has recently undertaken a review of Mexico's competitionpolicy.


RELATIONSHIPTO OTHER BANKOPERATIONS
26.   A number of Bank operations serve as complements to this DPL (see Figure 7). The most closely
linked is the Programmatic Competitiveness and Trade AAA, which is structured in three phases.
Phase I(Ey05) built on pre-programmatic research, analysis, and consultations by supporting the
Competitiveness Agenda through separate pieces of analytical work at the GOM's request. Phase 11,
which i s scheduledto be completed in early 2006, consolidates what was learned from Phase I,    augments
it with additional analysis of agriculture, and brings the key competitiveness issues into the public
dialogue. Phase 111(FY07-08) will address the complex and politically complicated issues of structural
energy and labor reforms.

27. A Programmatic Finance and Growth DPL i s being developed concurrently with this DPL. It
will address access to finance issues which are a critical constraint to competitiveness and one of the
pillars of the GOM's Competitiveness Agenda. Specifically, it aims to minimize moral risk, strengthen


                                                      8

market integrity, promote diversified savings instruments, and increase the depth, access, and
diversification of financing. The Second Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Reduction DPL to
Mexico is also a complement to this Competitiveness DPL. The housingDPL was presentedto the Board
in November and includes elements that will improve financial deepening, including housing credit,
household savings, and urban property registries.

28. This Competitiveness DPLbuilds on the Innovationfor Competitivenessloan to Mexicothat was
approved in May 2005. The first phase operation of the innovation loan has supply and demand
components, in addition to supporting the policy framework for, and internationalization of, Mexico's
innovation system. On the demand side, the program would increase support to business innovation,
while on the supply side, the program would accelerate the formation of human capital through a
scholarship fund.

29.  All of IFC's activities in Mexico are arguably linked to improving competitiveness. IFC
provides (i) support through direct financing in the financial sector, infrastructure, and manufacturing
and technology, and (ii)  technical assistance (TA) in the areas of sustainability and Business Enabling
Environment (BEE).On the TA side, BEE support consists of (a) the work relatedto the DoingBusiness
report, IFC's global initiative ranking selected categories of the business environment, and (b) Foreign
Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) sub-national, administrative barrier work, which is currently being
conducted in 12 Mexican cities. The latter is complemented by a similar IFC LAC Facility initiative to
devise a "municipal scorecard" on a regional level. Pilot programs to simplify municipal regulation and
licensing(operating licenses and construction permits) are planned for the next year.

30. The World Bank Institute is addressing competitiveness issues through dialogue with the
private sector. As a first step in the dialogue process, the WBI i s working with its partners inMexico to
organize a delivery of the CSR and Sustainable Competitiveness Course for an expected 500 business
representatives from Mexico, with a focus on the three main competitiveness issues. The two-month
course began inNovember 2005 and i s being held incollaboration with AmCham, ITESM and CEMEX.

                  Figure 7: Cluster of Operational Support For Mexico's Competitiveness

                                 Core Objective of Policy




                                                      9

31. The Bank's Infrastructure Public Expenditure Review (PER), completed in September 2005,
has informed the energy portion of this DPL.The Bank also has a number of education-related lending
programs in Mexico, which will boost competitiveness in the long run via a more skilled workforce.
These include a School-Based Management Adaptable Program Loan (APL), a Tertiary Education
Student Assistance APL, and a Basic Education APL the final phase of which was approved in2004. The
energy area of the Second Programmatic Environment DPL (approved in September 2005) i s
particularly relevant to the proposed Competitiveness DPL. It supports the development of a package of
legal reforms and regulations needed for the promotion of renewable energy sources. Since energy i s a
critical factor of production, ensuring a secure and sustainable energy supply is important to Mexico's
long-term ability to compete.


LESSONSLEARNED
32. Lessons learned come from a variety of lending operations and comprehensive reviews (e.g., from
Mexico, although in other sectors: the Housing DPL (HUSAL I)         and the Programmatic Environment
Structural Adjustment Loan; in competitiveness: the Brazil First Programmatic Loan For Sustainable
And Equitable Growth, the Peru Programmatic Decentralization and Competitiveness SAL I,and the
Tunisia: Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loans I,11 and III;and overall the Development
Committee's Review of WorldBank Conditionality):

      (i)  Monitoring indicators are crucial to monitor progress, measure impact, and adjust the pace and
           content of the reform program. Monitoring indicators have been agreed upon with the
           Government of Mexico for each component of the Competitiveness DPL.
      (ii) Government ownership of policies i s crucial. This Competitiveness DPL has ensured
           government ownership from the start by working closely with each agency to craft the matrix
           actions and triggers.
      (iii) Clear and precise (measurable) loan conditions are necessary.The current DPL has taken this
           into account in designing the Bank-supportedpolicy matrix.
      (iv) A stable macroeconomic environment is necessaryfor competitiveness reforms to translate into
           economic growth. Mexico has enjoyed stable macro conditions over the past few years, making
           this a propitious time to undertake this Competitiveness DPL.
      (v) Large and complex policy matrices should be avoided, particularly in multisectoral operations
           such as competitiveness programs. For the current DPL, a short list of actions and triggers has
           been selected for support from a much broader set of government initiatives across the
           different policy areas.



ANALYTICALUNDERPINNINGS
33.   The preparation of this loan has drawn on extensive analytical work by the Bank on Mexico
over the past two years, as well as complementary studies undertaken outside the Bank. Selected
findings in each of the DPL policy areas are shown in Table 2. The points are discussedin more detail in
the policy area descriptions in Section V and Annex 5. This evidence complements the IMCO impact
elasticities shown in Table 3.




                                                     10

                             Table 2: Analytical Underpinnings-Selected Evidence
[nnovation    , Roughly half of cross-country differences in per capita income and growth are driven by
and              differences in total factor productivity (TFP), generally attributed to technological development
Technology       and innovative capacity (Hall and Jones, 1999; Dollar andWolf, 1997).
Development     pCalculations suggest a social return on R&D of 60% in Mexico (Lederman and Maloney, 2004).

                pMexican firms invest a little above 0.1% of GDP in R&D, compared with 1.5% in the OECD area.
                vIn2000,24% of Mexican adults lackedsecondaryeducation, eventhough they hadcompleted
                 primary schooling.
Ikaining         Receiving a secondary education certificate leads to higher employability and higher wages (World
                 Bank, 2004e).
                 Lack of access to financing and skills are the main weaknesses of Mexican SMEs. Only 35% of
                 new SMEs survive more than 2 years, and the firms that fail report lack of training and expertise as
                 key reasonsfor their failure (Secretariat of the Economy-Mexico, 2001).
Investment       Modernizing regulatory frameworks could increase productivity by as much as 10% in lagging
Climate:         sectors (Cotis, 2005).
Regulation       Starting a business takes 58 days in Mexico, compared with 5 days in the US.Dealing with
                 licenses takes 222 days at a cost of 159% of income per capita, while it only takes 70 days inthe
                 U.S. at a cost of 17% of per capita income (Doing Business-World         Bank, 2005a).

                BThe cost of the regulatory burden inMexico is 15% of GDP (IMCO, 2005).
Competition     BA study of the impact of pro-competitive regulatory reform in several industriesin the United

            .    States found that annual welfare gains in affected sectors were more than 7%, with 90% of the
                 benefits flowing to consumers (OECD).
                 Increasing competitive pressure can increase the probability of firm innovation by more than 50%
                 (World Bank, 2004a).
                 According to a survey of Mexican firms, the two largest obstaclesto business development are

Trade            Mexico's global exports would have been about 25% lower without NAFTA,and FDIwould have
Facilitation.    government monopolies and private monopolies (CEESP, 2005).

                 been about 40% less. Also, the amount of time required for Mexican manufacturers to adopt US.
            .technologicalgains innovations was cut in half with NAFTA (Lederman, Maloney, and Serven, 2003).
                 Despite the        from NAFTA, Mexico has been losing export market share within the U.S. in
                 recent years. O f the top ten types of Mexican imports in the U.S., only two-petroleum and
                 agricultural products-gained     market share between 2001 and 2005 (US.Dept. of Commerce).
                 Mexico has significant roomto improve trade efficiency compared to its NAFTA partner, Canada.

                .For instance, the time for export is 18 days inMexico, compared with 12 days in Canada. Mexico
                 requires 11 signaturesfor imports, while only one is required in Canada (World Bank, 2005a).
                 Export-supply capab       es were more of a constraining factor than import-demand conditions in

Logistics       .Logistics
                 the US.for Mexican exports (Hanson and Robertson, 2005).
                            costs inMexico are estimated to be 20%, while the OECD average is 9%. A reduction to
                  12% in Mexico would have a significant impact on economic activity andjob creation (Guasch,
                 2004; Guasch and Kogan, 2003).
                 Mexico is not capitalizing on its enormous competitive advantage of proximity to the US.because
                 transport costs are so high: Mexico spends almost-double what the US.does on transport as a
                 percentage of GDP (INEGI and IMCO, 2005).
Energy           Inadequate investments in energy infrastructure have had a significant impact on TFP growth in
                 Mexican manufacturing (Castefieda Sabido, 2003).
                 The prices of fuels and electricity inMexico are among the highest of the world. Incontrast with
                  other OECD and developed countries, the prices of electricity, natural gas, fuel oil and other fuels
                 have increased over the last decade. (World Gas Intelligence, EIA, Edison Electric Institute,
                 .Eurelectric, among others).
                  A large portion (64 percent) of electricity subsidiesare captured by the non-poor inMexico(Wor1d
                 .Bank,quality
                        PER, 20040.
                  The         of the electricity service i s poor compared to other countries. Service interruptions and
                  voltage fluctuations affect the overall productivity levels of industries and prevent the installation
                  of modern electronic equipment (World Bank (IPER), 2005d; IMCO, 2005; and others).



                                                             11

34. The GOM's 2004 Competitiveness Agenda, developed with Bank assistance and discussed in
Section lV below, provided the framework for the proposed DPL program. Subsequent analysis,
particularly in the preparation of this proposed loan and as part of the ongoing Programmatic AAA
(FY05-08) has confirmed that these areas are an appropriate focus. The following discussion considers
alternative ways of identifying obstacles to competitiveness, while Annex 5 contains a more detailed
examination broken down by factor markets and total factor productivity (TFP).

Growth Diagnostic
35.   One way to analyze the obstacles to competitiveness in Mexico, and hence the appropriateness
of the areas this DPL (and the Mexican agenda) supports, is through a "growth diagnostic"
conceptual framework. This framework, developed by Hausmann, Rodrik, and Velasco (2004), aims to
identify the bindingconstraints to growth. While the diagnostic has not been comprehensively applied to
Mexico, it does provide guidelines. The framework is based on the drivers of investment and uses a
decision tree to first ask whether growth is constrained by low returns on investment, the high cost of
finance (both local and international), or both. The cost of finance (reflected particularly in very limited
access) is a key issue in Mexico, considering that the share of credit to the private sector as a percentage
of GDP i s about 17 percent, while it is 63 percent in Chile, 98 percent in Korea, and over 100 percent in
many East Asian countries. This issue i s addressed through a separate but complementary DPL on the
financial sector.

36. Turningto the returns on capital, an analysis by IMCO shows that low returns are a good part of the
story. Based on an analysis of the 33 largest companies on the Mexican stock market (BMV), IMCO
found that, on average, profits did not cover the cost of capital (Figure 8). Specifically, only 6 of 14
sectors had returns that exceeded their cost of capital. Moreover even in absolute terms, the returns to
capital appear low. They are in the 5-12 percent range, which i s similar to the yield on government bonds
in Mexico. The growth diagnosis framework provides guidance into the critical issues that are keeping
those returns so low. And this DPL supports measures that ought to improve the returns to capital.

                        Figure 8: Cost of Capital and Returns on Capital inMexico

                        2Wb -                Retorno ,/Capital -*11 WACC
                                             Retorno Prutnedio ---  WACC Prome&u
                         15% -




                        Note: WACC stands for Weighted Average Cost of Capital. Promedio means average.
                        Source: IMCO with data from Bloomberg, 12/17/2004.33 companies that compose the
                        main Mexican stock market (Bolsa Mexicanu de Vulores) index (IPC).




                                                        12

37.   The growth diagnostic framework goes on to identify a number of possible drivers to low
privatereturns on domestic investment: a) high micro or macro risks; b) lack of innovation and R&D;
c) large externalities, spillovers, or coordination failures; d) high tax rates and/or inefficient tax structure;
and e) insufficient infrastructure, high transport, energy, telecommunications or shipping costs (see
Annex 4 for a diagram of the framework). As discussed in section 11, the macro environment has been
stable in Mexico for the last decade, making it unlikely to be a binding constraint. Micro risks, such as
from corruption and crime, could potentially be binding constraints. Indeed, they came up in
competitiveness focus groups held in Mexico and the World Economic Forum's executive opinion
survey. However, they were not included in this DPL based on what could feasibly be accomplished
given the timeframe and current political environment. Other micro risks, such as property rights and
judicial reform (contractual enforcement, are handled through two other Bank operations-a                       housing
DPLand ajudicial reformproject. Lack of R&D / innovation is certainly an issueinMexico and is being
addressed in the first policy area of this DPL. Tax rates and regulations are seen as a constraint with
significant impact (Figure 9), but the issue i s politically off-limits given the failed tax reform of 2004.
Constraints associated with infrastructure and transport and shipping costs are addressedin the logistics,
trade facilitation, and energy components of this DPL.

                                             Figure 9: Tax Burden




                                   2                  3                     4                  5


                      Note: The overall tax burden on your enterprise, including all associated costs (tax rates plus
                      administrative and time costs, penalties, etc.), i s estimated as (in percent of net revenues)
                      (1=0-4 percent, 2=5-15 percent, 3=16-25 percent, 7=81-100 percent).
                      Source: World Economic Forum (2005).

 Impact Analyses
 38.   A complement to the growth diagnostic framework is an impact study conducted by the
 Mexican Competitiveness Institute (IMCO). The IMCO (2005) study, which was part of the Bank
 A M work in Mexico, develops a model to assess Mexico's competitiveness and establishes priorities
 among themes in terms of impact on investment (gross capital formation) per worker. From that model,
 "point elasticities" are estimated, giving the impact on investment per worker of a ten percent
 improvement in the respective independent variables (Table 3). As shown, the high-impact themes are
 the competition environment, taxes and tax regulations, regulatory and investment climate, education and
 innovation, trade facilitation, transport and logistics, corruption, finance and energy. These impact
 estimates provide guidelines for priorities and thus selected areas of support for this DPL. In
 consequence, this DPL (and the Mexican Competitiveness Agenda) support improvements in most of
 those themes (see bolded items in the table).



                                                         13

                                    Table 3: Constraints to Competitiveness
                                                                 Impact on investment per worker of
                              Subject areas                        a 10percent improvement inthe
                                                                  variables behindeach subject area
           1) Competition environment                                             7.5 %
           2) Taxes and tax regulations                                           7.1 %
           3) Regulatory and investment climate                                   6.8 %
           4) Education                                                           6.0 9`0
           5) Trade facilitation and transport / logistics                        5.8 %
           6) Corruption                                                          4.7 %
           7) Innovation                                                          3.8 %
           8)   Finance                                                           3.6 %
           9) Energy                                                              2.7 %
           10) Labor market                                                       1.9 %
           11) Macro environment                                                  1.0%

          Note: Bolded subject areas are addressed(at least partly) by this DPL. The percentagesare point
          "elasticities" which reflect the impact on investment per capita of a 10percent improvement in the
          variables behind each subject area.
          Source: IMCO (2005).

39.   It should be noted that the impact numbers in Table 3 are for single effects or isolated
improvements in each category. Since the Bank i s supporting a broad package of reforms across most of
the high-impact categories, it is anticipated that there will be a positive bundlingeffect. In other words,
the interaction between the individual variables should create an overall impact that is
substantially larger than the sum of the individual improvements.

40. The conclusions of the impact elasticity calculations are supported by two other relatively
comprehensive reports: a Competitiveness Focus Groups report and the World Economic Forum's
(WEF) Global Competitiveness Report 2005-2006. The focus group report i s based on the written and
verbal responses of over 90 businesspeople in Mexico from a range of economic sectors in 2003. The
WEF report contains information about the most problematic factors for doing business in Mexico.These
sources are "soft" in the sense that they are based mostly on subjective evaluations of entrepreneurs,
while the IMCO analysis i s "hard" in the sense that, by and large, it uses hard factual data and provides
quantitative estimates of impact. It i s reassuring that the correlation between the hard and soft studies is
quite high (over 80 percent) (JMCO2005).


                              IV.        THE GOVERNMENTPROGRAM

41. The overall program of the current administration is set out in the National Development
Plan 2001-2006 (PZun Nacional de Desarrollo). This groups objectives, and the strategies for meeting
them, into three broad areas: (i) and human development; (ii) with quality; and (iii)
                                    social                                    growth                        order
and respect. Table 4 presents the principal objectives in each of these areas.




                                                          14

                          Table 4: Main Objectives of the GOM's Program, 2001-2006
                                                                         -



                                                                      1.Defendindependence, sovereignty and
                                                                      national territorial integrity
                                                                      2. Design a new strategic framework for
                                                                      national security, in the context of democratic
                                                                      governance and constitutional order
                                                                      3.Contribute to political relations taking place
                                                                      inthe framework of the new democratic
                                                                      governance
                                                                      4. Build a relationship of responsible,
                                                                      balanced and productive collaboration among
                                                                      the powers of the Union and advance toward
development in harmony with nature                                    true federalism
6. Increase governmental capacity for                                 5. Foster the capacity of the State to manage
responsiveness, to foster citizens'                                   and moderate natural phenomena
confidence in institutions                                            6. Reduce corruption and make absolutely
                                                                      transparent the management and performance
                                                                      of the federal administration
                                                                      7. Guaranteepublic safety
                                                                      8. Guarantee the swift and efficient exercise
                                                                      ofjustice, bound by the law and respect for
                                                                      human rights
Source: Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, 2001-2006, http://pnd.presidencia.gob.mx.

42.    While enhancing country competitiveness has been on the policy agenda from the outset, in
2003 the Fox administration declared this to be a key priority. The National Development Plan listed
increasing and extendingcountry competitiveness as the second of the five specific objectives in the area
of pursuing "growth with quality" (Table 4). However, from 2003 onwards the government has devoted
more attention to the issue, starting with the development of a Competitiveness Agenda, with Bank
assistance.

43.    The GOM's Competitiveness Agenda, completed in 2004, sets out key areas for policy action.
The agenda established five key areas for action (Table 5). These areas were chosen on the basis of their
impact on Mexico's competitiveness, the feasibility of implementation (that they only require executive
and federal level approval), andthe horizon for implementation.

                        Table 5: Mexico's Competitiveness Agenda: Key Areas for Action

                                  (i)strengtheninginnovation, education, andtraining
                                  (ii)improvingtheinvestmentclimate
                                  (iii)reducinglogisticscosts

                                  (iv) improving the energy sector

                                  (v) financial deepening.
                                I
                         Source: Government of Mexico (2004), Agenda de Competit qidad.

 44.   This DPL would support four central elements of the GOM's competitiveness agenda. While
 the agenda does not includecertain high-impact but politically sensitive reforms such as structural reform
 in the energy sector (although it does include issues of pricing, incentives, and reliability of supply), tax



                                                          15

reform, and labor reform, it still provides an excellent starting point to address competitiveness issues in
Mexico and has served as a vehicle for dialogue with the private sector. Work on the Competitiveness
Agenda led to the ongoing Programmatic AAA (FY05-08).Analyses within the AAA and a Bank mission
in September 2005 have confirmed that the Competitiveness Agenda subject areas should indeed be
priorities. (See the Analytical Underpinnings section and Annex 5 below.) As a result, the DPL-
supported themes are based on the first four pillars of the Agenda, while the issue of financial deepening
i s addressed in the proposed Finance and Growth DPL, being prepared concurrently. Government
policies in the four areas of the proposed DPL are outlined below. Further detail, including a description
of specific measuresto be supported by the proposed operation i s providedin Section V.


INNOVATION, TECHNOLOGY           DEVELOPMENT, TRAINING
                                                   AND

45.   A key challenge for the country's competitiveness and trade is the limited involvement of the
private sector in innovation activities. This arguably contributes to the country's low level of high
value-added industrial production. The Government's strategy to boost innovation i s articulated in the
2001-2006 Special Plan for Science and Technology (PECyT), which is an integral part of the 2001-2006
National Development Plan. The PECyT defines a set of strategic priorities for the science and
technology (S&T) sector that address the sector's shortcomings by focusing on three overarching
objectives: 1) implement a coherent policy framework for S&T; 2) increase S&T capacity; and 3)
promote private sector competitiveness and innovation.

46.   Mexico enacted a new legal framework for the science and technology sector in 2002, creating
several new governing bodies. The new entities define and coordinate policies across federal, state, and
private sector stakeholders. Decentralization, information and networking are important elements of the
new institutional setup. An important decentralization mechanism that helps coordinate policies at the
federal and state level is the Consejos Estatales de Ciencia y Tecnologia.At the moment 25 Consejos
have been createdand 7 more are underway.

47.   There has been a reorientation in the allocation of resources. Even though public resources for
science and technology have not increased significantly, or enough to close the gap between Mexico and
other OECD countries, the PECyT highlights a structural change regardingthe use of resources, along
the following lines:
o Giving preferential support to projects that: i)increase the competitiveness of productive sectors and
    generate linkages among firms, universities and research centers; ii)have an impact on regional
    development and contribute to the decentralization of S&T activities; and iii)address social
    problems.
o Consolidation of a base of highly qualified human capital by: i)strengthening doctoral and
    postdoctoral quality programs; ii)refocusing the scholarship program to better address the demands
    of the productive sector; and iii)providing additional monetary incentives to top researchers and
    technologists both in the public and the private sector.

48.   Several National Science and Technology Council (CONACYT) programs provide incentives
for private sector competitiveness and business innovation. CONACYT' s                      work plan has
progressively shifted away from supporting pure research toward developing applications that will help
firms become more productive. Since 2001, a series of support programs have been launched to address
different needs in the innovation strategy of firms, including sectoral and mixed funds and fiscal
incentives. The sectoral funds are in collaboration with federal ministries and the mixed funds are with
state or municipal governments. They both provide transfers to established and start-up companies on the
basis of project proposals selected through competitive mechanisms. In the fiscal incentives program,


                                                     16

firms that can claim up to 30 percent of their annual investment in R&D projects are given tax credits.
Other key programs include public-private innovation consortia and research networks, venture capital
and seed capital initiatives, scholarships for researchers to work in firms, and firm incubators and
accelerators.

49.   There is a proliferation of relatively small SME support programs. Over the last 15 years,
approximately 131 federal programs have been createdto support small and medium enterprises (SMEs),
16 of which programs provide subsidizedtraining to workers or entrepreneurs. Most of these programs
seek to improve the productivity and competitiveness of small enterprises by encouraging technology
upgradingand training. The 10 largest programs reported in the National Survey of Employment, Wages,
Technology and Training (ENESTYC) finance needs assessment, training and consulting services or
knowledge-sharing service^.^ Despite several differences among programs, they share the common goal
of subsidizing support services for SMEs, on a cost-sharing basis, focusing on improving the
performance of individual firms or groups of firms.

50. The CIMO-PAC training program administered by the STPS is the largest in Mexico. The
program provides training services to approximately 332,000 employed workers per year on a cost-
sharing basis with the employer.      Due to budget cuts and lower efficiency, the number of firms
participating in the program has declined sharply, from an estimated 94,000 firms in 2001 to 7,000 in
2005.6 The firms benefiting from the program are preponderantly micro-enterprises (70%) concentrated
in the manufacturing sector (49%) and in service industries(41%). The potential positive impact of the
program on firm productivity i s minimal due to low efficiency, as indicatedby overhead figures close to
60 percent, and scale. To address this challenge, the Government is committed to carrying out a
systematic impact evaluation of the program covering the three years of operations (2002-2004) and
using the results of this evaluation to improve program efficiency prior to expanding program coverage.
These actions are supported by an IDB loan.7

51.   Mexico has an efficient adult education program funded by the National Institute of Adult
Education (Znstituto Nacional de Educacio'n para 10s Adultos-WA).        INEAhas modernized its out-of-
school education program during its 23 years of operation and now utilizes a pedagogic approach based
on modules that are flexible and competency-based. The Institute introduced information technology to
expand the coverage of its programs and has a large and decentralized operating infrastructure consisting
of 445 regional centers, 34,000 learning points, 29,000 learning cycles and 2,500 community learning
centers (Plazas Comunitarias).




  The SME programsreportedinthe 2001 ENESTYC survey by year of creation and supervisory agency are:
 CONOCER (1995) SEP and STPS; CIMO-PCA (1988) STPS; COMPITE (1997) SE; CETRO - CRECE (1996) SE;
 FIDECAP (2001) SE: FAMPYME (2001)SE: PAT (1994)BANCOMEXT; MEX-EX (1994)BANCOMEXT;
 PMT (1998) CONACyTand PAIDEC (1998)CONACyT. A descriptionof these programsi s availablein L6pez-
 Acevedo (2004-2).
  Informationon the coverage of CIMO-PAC in 2005 was providedby the STPS; 2001 figuresare given inHong, T
 and Lopez-Acevedo(2004).
  LoanME-0233($300million) is the first of athree loanprogramsupporting the STPS programs.


                                                     17

INVESTMENT CLIMATE: REGULATORY                 IMPROVEMENT AND COMPETITION

52.   The government has undertaken various actions aimed at regulatory improvement. The
Federal Regulatory Improvement Commission (COFEMER) was created in 2000 to coordinate the
government's Regulatory Improvement Program, ensure the transparency of the regulatory process, and
promote regulations that produce benefits greater than the costs. Mexico i s one of the few developing
countries that created a mechanism to challenge the quality of new regulation through the establishment
of mandatory Regulatory Impact Assessments (RIA) for all new regulationthat imposes costs on citizens.
COFEMER plays the key role of systematically reviewing RIAs and regulatory improvement proposals.
COFEiMER also provides support to states and municipalities ranging from technical assistance in
establishing registries of formalities to conducting reviews of regulatory authorities to designing
enforcement schemes. It is also helping implement system to simplify business opening procedures in
municipalities around the country.

53. Regulatory planning activities are underway. Regulatory Betterment Programs (RBP),
mechanisms that give the public an opportunity to participate in regulatory planning, were created in
2000. At least every two years, Ministries and regulators must prepare a RBP to inform the public of
their plans for changes to regulations and formalities. The RBPs help to achieve the central purpose of
the federal regulatory improvement policy: to create and to modify regulations and formalities according
to processes based on planning, transparency, analysis potential effects, and public consultation, in order
to obtain the highest social benefit. A regulatory moratorium introduced in 2004 also helps improve the
quality of regulation as it requires new federal regulations to demonstrate benefits that significantly
outweigh costs. (See Annex 6 for a more detailed description of regulatory improvement programs.)

54.   Competition policy and the role of the Federal Competition Commission (CFC) are being
strengthened. The CFC i s providing technical support to legislative proposals that could amend the
Federal Competition Law in order to improve CFC's ability to address anticompetitive conditions
effectively and efficiently. One major aspect of this amendment would be to avoid excessive legal
challenges by dissatisfied parties against the resolutions issued by the CFC. Other challenges to be
addressed by the amendment to the Federal Competition law include expanding the CFC's ability to
divest monopolies, undertake searches, implement leniency programs, and order preventive measures.

55. The CFC has started a process of strengthening its internal procedures. It has undertaken an
internal restructuring aimed at reallocating resources to operative areas that are responsible for major
procedures. It i s also prioritizing investigations and deepening the analysis. To maximize the probability
that CFC resolutions are ratified by courts, it is developing a comprehensive strategy for each
investigation. It i s also outsourcing the study of industries or sectors requiring a high level of
specialization to external experts or consultants.

56. The CFC is also increasing its cooperation with other institutions. Inter-agency agreements are
being signed to establish concrete mechanisms for collaboration. The CFC is also signing agreements
with state and municipal officials and local economic agents to provide training, technical assistanceand
registry information to better identify practices that limit competition. The CFC i s also increasing support
for competitionpolicy by improving communication with consumers, academia, entrepreneurs, investors,
and public officials.




                                                      18

LOGISTICS TRADEFACILITATION
             AND

57.    The government has taken a number of actions over the past five years to lower trade costs.
Mexico's tariff have been harmonized and reduced on a number of products.' Import procedures and non-
tariff technical requirements have been eliminated or streamlined under a number of programs already in
place, such as the maquiladoras and PITEX (Programa de Importacidn Temporal para Producir
Articulos de Exportacidn), which allows duty-free entry for temporary imports of raw materials, parts,
machinery and equipment usedto manufacture exports. Action has also been taken to further leverage the
use of information technology to lower trade transactions cost for firms through government programs to
expand the use of electronic documents for import control requirements. One example is electronic
transmission of certificates of origin.

58.    Participation in international organizations has been another way to facilitate trade. Mexico
i s involved in the World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations in the Doha Agenda. The government
has also strengthened its implementation of commitments made in the Asia Pacific Economic
Cooperation (APEC) to meet the goal of a five percent reduction in trade transactions costs made as part
of the APEC action plan. According to the APEC 2004 Individual Action Plan, Mexico selected the
actions and measures that will be implemented at the federal level in four key areas: movement of goods,
mobility of business people, standardsand conformity, and electronic commerce.

59.    Significant efforts have been made to improve customs, border crossings, and transport
infrastructure. An electronic customs management system has been launched. It encompasses payment
of customs duties, deposit certificates, cargo shipping lines manifests, certain carriers' documents, and
electronic transmission of certain government permits and certificates, such as sanitary and phytosanitary
requirements. The system is to be completed in several stages, in which different control agencies are
progressively incorporated. Many of the main national highway corridors have been modernized, the
trucking industry was deregulated in 1989, and ports and railways were concessioned in 1993 and 1997
respectively. Ports improved their performance significantly through the implementation of the
Administraciones Portuarias Integrales (APIs), landlord agencies responsible for the organization of port
operations and development. The active participation of the private sector as terminal operators under
APIs administration allowed for US$ 3 billion of investment in the last decade and a substantial
enhancement of operations performance. Other relevant projects have been a new initiative to coordinate
actors in multimodal corridors, launched in 2004, and efforts to develop private sector logistics
processes, such as the promotion of truck fleet modernization and the enhancement of SMEs logistics
organization.


ENERGY

60. Mexico has adopted a strategy to strengthen and modernizethe energy sector. Specifically, the
Energy Sector Program 2000-2006 (PROSENER) includes measures to strengthen the technical,
 economic, financial and legal aspects of the different energy sub-sectors. In electricity, it places special
 emphasis on: (i)   fuel share diversification and security-of-supply measures (e.g., increasing the share of
 renewables and other sources); (ii)       energy efficiency and conservation; (iii)finding ways to increase
 private sector participation and, (iv) increasing commercial integration with regional energy markets. In
 the hydrocarbons sector, PROSENER is mostly concerned with the modernization of the oil industry
 includingthe transformation of large industrial complexes, and the introduction of incentives to increase
 the efficiency and competitiveness of the sector. Inparticular, the program emphasizes the need to adopt


   For example, the dispersionof tariff rates was reducedfrom 14to 8 levels.


                                                          19

international standards for project planning, management and development, as well as for service and
product quality.

Regulation is being improved through an agreement between COFEMER and the Secretariat of
Energy (SENER). The 2001 agreement includes measurements to modify regulatory frameworks and
ensure transparent regulatory accounting and public disclosure. To some extent, the COFEMER
agreement complements the Energy Regulatory Commission (CRE) actions on regulatory accounting and
oversight.


     V.       THE PROPOSEDFIRSTPROGRAMMATICCOMPETITIVENESSDPL

OPERATIONDESCRIPTION
61.  Buildingon the support provided through the Competitiveness and Trade AAA and other lending
operations included in the Mexico CPS, the proposed Programmatic Competitiveness Development
Policy Loan (DPL) will support faster growth and poverty alleviation in Mexico. More specifically, the
proposed Programmatic Competitiveness DPL will:

    1. Build on past competitiveness efforts, strengthen new and existing programs, and promote a
        holistic, cross-governmental approach to improve productivity, accelerate growth, and increase
        exports and employment levels;
    2. Contribute to the formulation of a Medium-Long Term Competitiveness policy agenda; and help
        lay a solid foundation of competitiveness programs in advance of the next administration, which
        takes office in December 2006.

62. The World Bank would support the achievement of the overall objective through a three phase
Programmatic Competitiveness DPL. The proposed first phase (loan amount of US$300.76 million)
would support policy and institutional reforms in the following four areas:

    a. Innovation, technology development, and training: promote business innovation and improve
        training andeducation levels of the workforce.
    b. Investment Climate: Improve regulation to facilitate new business entry and reduce transactions
        costs for businessesand individuals; strengthen the economic competition policy.
    c. Logistics and tradefacilitation: streamline trade procedures, lower trade costs, facilitate customs
        clearance, and improve the quality of port services.
    d. Energy: implement transparency measuresand regulatory instruments.
Subject to overall satisfactory program implementation, particularly with respect to the indicative actions
that are outlined as triggers in each of the policy areas below, the second phase of the DPL would be
presentedto the Board in mid-2007, allowing the new administration a semester to transition into office.
A continuation of Mexico's satisfactory macroeconomic framework will also be a necessary part of the
context for proceeding with a secondDPL.


POLICY AREAS
 63. This section examines the issues behind each of the four DPL policy areas, building on the
 discussion of relevant government policy in Section IV. A matrix that describes the Bank-supported
prior actions and triggers for the second DPL can be found in Annex 2. This matrix has been developed
through very productive dialogue with the authorities and has resulted in a significant level of ownership
by the GOM. Annex 2 also contains indicators that are usefulfor monitoring the success of the program.
 Annex 3 contains the broader government program matrix, of which the bank-supported actions are a



                                                    20

subset. Annex 6 contains more detailed descriptions of the policy areas, including relevance, challenges,
and government actions. For energy, this information i s contained in Annex 7.


POLICY AREA1: INNOVATION, TECHNOLOGY                 DEVELOPMENT, TRAINING
                                                                       AND
64. Labor productivity, and hence purchasing power and standards of living, are largely determinedby
a person's knowledge and skills and the tools at his or her disposal. Knowledge and skills can be acquired
through education and training. This DPL focuses on adult education and SMEtraining programs, as well
as improving productivity by using technology development and innovation to enhance the tools and
knowledge available to workers. This loan does not address shortcomings in primary, secondary, and
tertiary education, but leaves these issues to separate lending programs, including the Basic Education
Adaptable Program Loan (APL), the Tertiary Education Student Assistance APL, and the School-Based
Management APL.


INNOVATIONAND TECHNOLOGY              DEVELOPMENT

Description and Challenges
65.    Innovation is a major driver of economic growth and productivity. Roughly half of cross-
country differences in per capita income and growth are driven by differences in total factor productivity,
generally attributed to technological development and innovative capacity.' These should be understood
ina broad sense, referring not only to the ability to engage inresearchanddevelopment (R&D) activities,
which eventually may or may not be transformed into new outputs, but also to the efficient use of modem
operating technologies and to the adoption and adaptation of new ones. Using firm level data from
investment climate surveys, Escribano and Guasch (2005a, 2005b) investigate the determinants of
productivity using a wide array of variables in four broad categories: red tape, corruption and crime;
infrastructure; quality, innovation and labor skills; and corporate governance. They find that in most
countries of Latin America and Asia covered by their study, variables related to innovation, quality and
training are important determinants of productivity. Lederman and Saenz (2003) present econometric
evidence that suggests that innovation outcomes, specifically patents per capita, are an important
explanation of the levels of development observed around the world.

66.    Social returns to R&D investment can exceed private returns. Knowledge spillovers from R&D
can improve other companies' products and production techniques through technology adoption and
learning, causing R&D returns to increase several fold. Lederman and Maloney (2004), using data from a
panel of countries, estimate that the social returns to R&D exceed the return to investments in physical
capital by a factor of 6 to 10 depending upon the initial level of income per capita. For Mexico, the
calculations suggest a social return to R&D above 60 percent.

67.    The Mexican innovation system performs below par compared with economies of a similar
income level, with a low ability to translate investments into innovation. Lederman et a1 (2003)
 analyze two key indicators of innovation performance-total      factor productivity (TFP) growth and the
number of patents produced-and           conclude that Mexico is currently under-performing in both
 dimensions when compared with other Latin American, East Asian and OECD countries. Dahlman and
 Kuznetsov (2005) construct knowledge economy indexes for Mexico and find that its relatively low
 rankingis due to weaknesses in all four knowledge economy pillars, namely economic incentives regime,



   Hall and Jones (1999),Dollar and Wolf (1997).


                                                      21

education, innovation, and information and communication technologies. The low performance with
regards to innovation stems from a combination of factors (see Annex 6 for details on these factors):
        Insufficient private sector involvement in innovationactivities;
        Total R&D investment, public and private, is also far below OECD averages;
        High cost, excessive economic risk, and lack of access to finance are the most important
        limitations to innovationaccording to Mexican firms;
        Low levels of cooperation in the development of new products and processes;
        Weak environment for entrepreneurship resulting in few potential high-growth start-ups suitable
        for venture capital funding;
        Low science and technology skill base;
        Inadequate linkages between public R&D and the productive sector;
        Limited internationalparticipation and linkages; and
        Heavy reliance on foreign technology.


Measures to be Undertakenas Part of the Proposed Operation
68.   To promote business technology and innovation, the Mexican Government relies on a portfolio of
programs and instruments that provide different incentives and address different needs for firms at
different stages of the innovation process. Some of these programs have been operating for two to three
years; others have recently been launched or are inthe process of design. The Bank i s supporting a subset
of these programs as prior actions for this DPL and triggers for the second DPL. The matrix in Annex 2
summarizes the Bank-supported actions and indicators, while Annex 3 contains the main government
actions. Annex 6 describes the full government programand measures supported in more detail.

        (i.)Prior     actions: Promote technological innovation (scale-up existing and launch new
              innovation programs to promote technology absorption and high-value added technology-
              based business initiatives) through launching and operating Program AVANCE,
              comprising UltimaMilla and Emprendedores (Venture Capital Fund) initiatives; creating a
              National Business Incubation System (SNIE) and Acceleration Program; and launching an
              internet portal for the SNIE in Spanish and English.

        (ii.)Triggers    for Phase 2: Promote technological innovation by conducting performance
              evaluations of the CONACYT and Under Secretariat for SMEs related programs, with the
              aim to consolidate funding, increase effectiveness and reduce non-performing funds; and
              initiating programs to improve linkages between the science community and businesses,
              including the Program to incorporate Scientists, Technologists and High-Level Human
              Resources in Industry; Consortia and technology networks program (public-private
              partnerships).

69. Ultima Milla (Last Mile) is a Pre-CompetitiveFundthat targets firms and R&D institutions. On the
one hand, firms undertaking basic or applied research or technological development can receive support
to develop: i)the last round of prototypes before market introduction and final tests to determine
industrial scale of production and investment; ii)the business and marketing plan and other studies to
evaluate the economic and technical feasibility of the investment; and iii)the requirements necessary for
the protection of industrial property rights. On the other hand, universities and other public or private
R&D institutions will be supported to carry out pre-competitive studies and patent processing, and to hire
technical assistance (Promotores de Negocio) to exploit commercially the results of their research. The



                                                     22

other component of AVANCE, the Venture Capital Fund known as Programa Emprendedores, aims to
helpstart and strengthen new technology basedbusinesses, including market introduction and scaling up,
through investment in capital funds and guarantee funds constituted by financial institutions with legal
status.

70. The Program to incorporate Scientists, Technologists and High-Level Human Resources in
Industry provides scholarships to firms to hire highly qualified human resources to develop innovation
initiatives or to identify, describe, and implement new R&D proposals. The consortia and networks
program supports linkages between groups of enterprises with existing R&D absorption capacity and
public R&D centers. Each consortium has to define a portfolio of R&D projects, which are being carried
out in collaborative fashion with public research centers according to their capabilities. Incubators are
physical or virtual centers that provide information, training and technical assistanceto create, evaluate
and implement business plans. The objective of the business accelerators i s to facilitate the rapid
growth of Mexican technology-based micro and SMEs through strategic alliances, access to international
venture capital and global markets penetration.



TRAINING

Description and Challenges
71.    There is a need for more efficient S M E support programs, with particular emphasis on
training programs for employed workers. This line of policy development addresses three main issues:
(a) small and medium enterprises (SMEs) represent a significant share of the Mexican economy; (b) the
public sector operates a plethora of relatively small programs of uncertain effectiveness in support of
SMEs; and (c) there is a lack of rigorous cost-benefit analyses of existing programs. SMEs make up 99
percent of enterprises in Mexico, employ 64 percent of the workforce and account for over 40 percent of
GDP (Economic Census 1999). These firms face many difficulties, perform below the level of their
larger counterparts, and rarely export their goods and services." An assessment by the Secretariat of
Economy (SE 2001) identified lack of access to financing and skills as the main weakness of SMEs. The
mortality rate of SMEs is high-200,000          SME are created every year but only 70,000 (35 percent)
 survive two years later. The firms that fail report lack of training and expertise as key reasons for their
failure.

 72.    The extent to which S M E programs reach their objectives i s unknown due to a lack of
 rigorous impact evaluations. The evaluations carried out by program supervisory agencies tend to be
 qualitative and small in scope, measuring beneficiary satisfaction or reporting coverage indicators (i.e.
 they are monitoring studies but not impact evaluations.) Few studies measure net programbenefits. Two
 exceptions to this norm are the CIMO-PAC programevaluations" carried out by the Secretariat of Labor
 and Social Security (STPS) in 1995 and 1997 using quasi-experimental designs. But even these failed to
 account for biases from unobserved firm heterogeneity and self-selection (L6pez-Acevedo 2004-1). The
 lack of reliable evaluation limits the capacity of policymakers to determine program effectiveness and to
 assess the gains that might accrue from consolidatingprograms within or across agencies.'*



 lo The 1999Economic Census reports that only 6.7 percentof SMEs export their goods and services.
 l1Programof ComprehensiveQuality and Modernization(CIMO) re-namedin2001"Proavarna de Auoyo a la
 Capacitacidn-PAC."
 l2 Rigorous impact evaluation requires firm-level panel data on both reasonably sized samples of program
 beneficiaries and a control group of non-participant firms with similar attributes covering pre- and post-program


                                                         23

73. Evaluations of CIMO-PAC show positive or mixed results. The empirical evidence collected in
1995 and 1997 by the STPS suggests that the CIMO-PAC program of integrated training and technical
assistance-as    originally designed, was effective in improving the performance`of micro enterprises and
SMEs.I3 Compared with the control group, participating firms increased investments in worker training,
had higher rates of capacity utilization, and were more likely to adopt quality-control practices. These
improved intermediate outcomes may be associatedwith increased productivity, but the original analyses
did not lead to this con~lusion.'~Re-examiningthe evidence, Lopez-Acevedo andTan (2004-1) show that
because less productive firms self-select in the CIMO-PAC program, the evaluation results were
inaccurate. Using a different methodology, the authors show that program impact is positive or mixed
when production functions are estimatedusingfirst-differences that control for the self-selection bias.

74.   In general, SME programs cover few firms, have eligibility criteria that are easily satisfied,
and vary widely as to the levels of subsidy offered.I5Most SMEs (70 percent) benefiting from the 131
federal programs listed by the CIPI are micro-enterprises, even though program targeting criteria do not
exclude larger size firms, and are concentrated in the services (58 percent) and manufacturing (30
percent) sectors.

75.   Adult education programs are necessary to raise the skill and knowledge levels of the
workforce. This policy line aims to reduce the education lag of the workforce by increasing the number
of 15 to 35 year olds with complete basic education (the equivalent of a 9" grade certificate), thereby
contributing to higher productivity and competitiveness. The average education attainment of the
Mexican adult population is very low-7.6         years-compared with 11-12 years for other OECD countries.
In the last decade, this gap has narrowed with regard to illiteracy and incompleteprimary education, but
continues to grow at the secondary level (grades 7, 8, and 9), reflecting poor retention capacity of public
secondary schools. In 2000, 14.9 million adults (24 percent) lacked secondary education even though
they had completed primary education. This means that a very large proportion of the workforce does not
have sufficient education to benefit from job-skills training or perform efficiently in the knowledge
economy.

76.   There is evidence that receiving a secondary education certificate leads to higher
employability and higher wages, suggesting higher productivity.16 With complete secondary
education the probability of being employed in the formal sector increased, on average, 13 percent for
men and 10 percent for women, and their hourly wage increasesby almost 70 percent for men (from 1.16
to 1.90 pesos/hr) and by 65 percent for women (from 1.89 to 3.11pesodhr). The impact on wages varies
depending on the assumptionsused, but recent simulations of potential private benefits derived from the


period. This could be done using data collected through the ENESTYC survey carried out by INEGI every two
years, if a purposive sample is added to augment sample sizes of program beneficiaries to permit more statistically
robust impact evaluation studies. As a first step in the direction of cross-program evaluation studies the SE through
the CIPI completed a beneficiary database using information reported by all SME program administrators.
l3 In2001 the CIMO-PAC programwas substantially modified and, therefore, no longer corresponds to the program
evaluated in the mid-1990s.
 l4The methodology usedinthe analysis estimated the program impact on sales using a Cobb-Douglas production-
function that relates output to different combinations of labor and capital inputs and compared "levels" of
productivity between treatment and control group.
 l5CIMO-PAC subsidizes 50 percent of the cost of training; CRECE subsidizes 85 percent, 55 percent or 40 percent
of the cost consulting services depending on firm size; and COMPITE fully subsidizes assessment services but
charges firms for workshops.
 l6The analysis uses information from the National Employment Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Empleo, ENE) and
INEA's studentdatabase. See, Annex 9: "Economic and Financial Analysis.' In:World Bank, MX Lifelong
Learning Project. Draft Report. August 18, 2004.


                                                           24

INEA secondary education certificates show an average internal rate of return of approximately 10.6
percent. This estimate is a low threshold since it does not take into account the possibility of INEA
graduates pursuingfurther education.

77. The National Institute of Adult Education's (INEA) programs appear to perform well. The
education model usedby INEA is very different from those designed for children and literacy campaigns.
INEAuses basic-competency learningmodules covering the secondary education curriculum (grades 7 to
9) and basic practical skills. The program is flexible in terms of schedule and number of modules
requiredto obtain the certification. According to the results of an entry test, students may be able to skip
modules that cover competencies they already have. Based on assessments of learning outcomes by the
National Evaluation Center for Higher Education (Centro Nacional de Evaluacidn de la Educacidn
Superior-CENEVAL),         there i s no significant difference between the quality of the lower secondary
education provided by INEA to out-of-school adults and that providedby the formal school system.

78.   More resources are needed to continue the expansion of adult education. Precise demand
estimates for INEA's secondary education certificates are not available. But the number of certificates
grew over the last 10 years by an average rate of 11.5 percent per year. INEA students come from poor
and vulnerable groups, such as women, youth and indigenous peoples (Schmelkes and Kaman 1996)."
This implies that INEA is tackling both inequity andpoverty issues through its adult education programs.
In order to expand program coverage, INEA would need additional fiscal resources, improved internal
efficiency and the introduction of incentives to increase effective demand." The Government i s already
pursuingsome of these initiatives, but more needs to be done.


Measures to be Undertakenas Part of the Proposed Operation
79. The Bank supports the Mexican Government policy of subsidizing training services for
SMEs. However, the historical proliferation of SMEs support services in Mexico and the absence of
reliable information on their effectiveness, suggests that it i s necessaryto take stock and formulate a new
and comprehensive strategy for supporting SMEs before considering program expansion. For the PAC
training program, the necessary elements neededto design such a strategy are: (a) reliable information on
SMEs demand for training; (b) information on the costs and benefits of the PAC; and (c) feasibility
analyses to identify more efficient delivery mechanisms. Consideration should be given to involving the
private sector as a service promoter and service provider while keeping the government as co-financier
and provider of program oversight and evaluation. Once an improved strategy to deliver training services
to SMEs is in place, it would be possible to plan for expansion. In parallel, the Bank supports the scaling
up of the INEA education programaimed at providing secondary education certificates for out-of-school
young adults enabling themto improve their performance inthe labor market.

80. To improve training and education levels of the workforce, the proposed DPL would support the
following specific actions:
     (i)Prioractions:Improvetrainingandeducationlevelsoftheworkforcethroughthecontractingof
         a study to evaluate the impact of the PAC training program from 2002 to 2004, and issuing
         200,000 secondary education certificates during 2005 to out-of-school population aged 15 to 34
         years.


l7Schmelkes, S. and Karlman, J. 1966. "La Educaci6n de Adultos: Estado del Arte. HaciaUna Estrategia
Alfabetizadota para MCxico." MCxico: INEA. See also, CONEVyT-OCDE. 2003. Educaci6n de Adultos y
Formaci6npara el Trabajo en MCxico: Informe Base.
'*Program  efficiency needs to be significantly increased, as only one of every four adults registered in the INEA
secondary education programreceives a lower-secondary certificate.


                                                          25

     (ii)  Triggers for Phase 2: Improve training and education levels of the workforce through the
           implementation the recommendations of the impact evaluation study of the PAC program; and
           issuing 240,000 secondary education certificates during 2006 to out-of-school population aged
           15 to 34 years.
The matrix in Annex 2 summarizes the Bank-supported actions and indicators, while Annex 3 contains
the full government program.



POLICYAREA2: INVESTMENT IMPROVEMENT          CLIMATE: REGULATORY                                    AND COMPETITION


REGULATORY            IMPROVEMENT

Description and Challenges
81.     Mexico needs to reduce its regulatory burden to improve productivity. Several studies
demonstrate how the regulatory burden in Mexico is still hinderingbusiness growth." The OECD, in its
most recent review2' of the effect of product market regulations on investment and growth found that
when regulation i s restrictive, productivity growth is generally below the OECD average.21As the OECD
points out, this does not imply that governments should dismantle regulations. Regulation i s necessary
for well-functioning market economies. But regulation may also contribute to impede competition with
detrimental consequences on resource allocation, innovation and productivity. The challenge for Mexico
i s to design regulations that help to safeguard the public good without compromising economic
performance. It i s an area where learning from best performers is crucial. The OECD estimates that if
those sectors that lag in terms of productivity were to modernize their regulatory framework and align it
on best practice, then productivity could increaseby as much as 10per cent.22

82. Benchmarking the cost of doing business in Mexico is telling as to where improvements can
be achieved through targeted regulatory improvement reforms. The "Doing Business" report of the
World Bank                  has benchmarked indicators of the cost of doing business in Mexico against more
that 150 countries around the world. The report covers entry regulations, licensing regulation,
employment regulations, registeringproperty, court efficiency, corporate governance, creditor rights and
credit information, bankruptcy and tax issues. Policy implications for Mexico are exceptionally
important: when benchmarked against other countries in the Latin American region, Mexico clearly lags
behind in several indicators, including a) time and cost to open a business (Figure 10); b) time and cost to
obtain a license; c) cost of hiring; and d) cost of tax compliance.




l9 See further cited OECD, World Bank DoingBusinessand IMCO Competitiveness studies.
*'"Indicators PolicyReforms:
2o             of ProductMarket Regulation", OECD, 2003.
   "Economic                 Going for Growthand the caseof Mexico", Jean-PhilippeCotis, Chief Economist, OECD, 2005.
22 "Economic PolicyReforms: Going for Growthand the case of Mexico", Jean-PhilippeCotis, Chief Economist, OECD, 2005.
23 Seewww.doinnbusiness.orgfor the 2006 data.



                                                                26

                                     Figure 10: Timeand Costs to Start a Business

                                                                              Cost to Start a Business(%of income per capita)   I




Source: Doing Business.

83.    The Mexican Institute for Competitiveness (IMCO) produced its own benchmarking report
in 2005, which concludes that the cost of the regulatory burden currently represents 15 percent of
Mexico's GDP, while the benefits from regulatory improvement could yield a 5 percent increasein GDP.
The IMCO and Doing Business reports show that the costs related to the complex regulatory framework,
non-transparent business procedures, and weak judicial structures remain factors inhibiting investment in
Mexico. They create indirect costs that impede Mexican manufacturers in their competition with other
countries, and translate intojob loss and growth reduction.

 84.   Lack of harmonization in the regulatory environment negatively impacts businesses. Since
regulatory responsibilities are shared among the federal, state and municipal level, coordination i s
 necessary to eliminate the overlaps, duplication and inconsistency with federal regulations. A 2003 study
 commissioned by the Business Coordination Council (CCE) showed marked differences in the quality of
 the regulatory framework among states.24On the positive side, improvements in some sub-national
 entities have attracted reforms in others, as has been the case with the Rapid Business Start-up System
 (SARE). Benchmarkingdifferent states and municipalities can spur this positive competition to improve
 regulations. The result of two state by state studies was released in December 2005 by IMCO and the
 World Bank's Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS)/Doing Business.

 85. Mexico needs to undertake important regulatory reforms to boost its competitiveness.
 Specific sectors, especially in the manufacturing industry, are losing exports and even domestic market
 share to China and Latin American countries such as Honduras. While Mexico's labor wages cannot be
 reduced so as to compete with its competitors' low labor costs, the government needs to undertake
 actions to reduce the indirect costs of doing business. Specifically:

       (i)Proceduresthat impose largeburdensonentrepreneurs needto beeliminated, replacedor
            improved (starting a business, licensing, employment regulation, tax regulation);
       (ii)Businessinteractionwithgovernmentneedtobestreamlined,soastoreduceuncertaintyand
            implementation efficiency issues;
       (iii) marketregulations:IndustrysectorswhicharekeytoMexicancompetitivenessand
            Product
            under specific competition threat from foreign markets could benefit from a thorough review of
            administrative barriers in order to identify where action can be taken to reduce cost. Such
            sectors and issues could include foreign trade, manufacturing, property, finance, norms and
            standards, transport and telecommunications, energy and labor among others. For each sector
            or issue, reduction of time, procedures and costs of fulfillment would help improve
            competitiveness.


24CEESP. 2003. "Calidad del Marco Regulatorioen las Entidades Federativas.Estudio Comparativo Noviembre 2003."



                                                                  27

86.   The Federal Regulatory Improvement Commission (COFEMER) needs continuing support.
COFEMER can lead the above-mentioned tasks. But COFEMER can exercise its full powers only if it
enjoys broad support and acts decisively. One challenge is sustaining the support of the private sector
and official institutions. Earlier, rallied by the domestic crisis and strong political support, the private
sector took on an active role in pressuring agenciesto improve regulation. Today many factors contribute
to the more passive role of several public and private actors: the loss of founding members of the Council
through turnover and a review process in which success has become routine. Additionally, political
circumstances and a fragmented Congress have shifted the private sector's lobbying efforts from the
executive branch and its agencies toward Congress. This trend can only be counterbalanced by a
reinforcement of COFEMER's role vis-his the institutions issuing regulations. Inthat sense, ensuring
continuous training of public administration officials on the Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA)
framework is key to maintain momentum while improving the upstream quality of proposed regulations.
The cornerstone of this effort lies in demonstrating the benefits of the RIA process in terms of cost
reduction to the entrepreneurs. In that regard, the establishment of an ex-post evaluation framework for
RIAs would help benchmark regulatory compliance of key administrations and create strong political
incentives for those administrations to streamline and simplify their regulatory environment.

87. Public consultation needs to be strengthened. Consultation in making, modifying or repealing
legislation and regulation in Mexico i s still weak. There is still no legal obligation to undertake active
public consultation for certain federal regulatory proposals. Nevertheless, COFEMER has included a
section in the RIA questionnaire concerning public consultation. Institutional bodies are requested to
specify if they established some type of public consultation and who was consulted about the proposals.
The RIA also requests a list of all the submissions that were taken into account for the draft regulation
that is beingpresented. But the input of the private sector when it comes to regulation affecting the cost
of doing business should be reinforced.

88.   Better harmonization of regulation between the different levels of jurisdiction is necessary.
Today, any regulatory improvement process, including red-tape reduction at the sub-federal level,
depends on states and municipalities' will and capacity to coordinate with each other. COFEMER,
through the SARE system, can play a key role in helping set up similar frameworks and systems between
jurisdictions. It i s crucial to deepen the voluntary relationship between COFEMER and the states and
municipalities. As a first step, it i s equally important to diagnose binding constraints at the state and
municipal level in order to identify the different sources of competitiveness loss of specific industries or
value chains. A benchmarking exercise between the states and municipalities could help identify best
practices and drive the regulatory cost reduction agenda in that regard.

Measures to be Undertakenas Part of the Proposed Operation
89. In order to address the issues mentioned above, the measures proposed are organized around key
action items, all pertaining to COFEMER's role in regulatory improvement. The matrix in Annex 2
summarizes the Bank-supported actions and indicators, while Annex 3 contains the full government
program matrix and Annex 6 contains more description and details of government actions.
    (i)Prior actions: Reducethe cost of doing businessthrough: implementing the SARE (Rapid
         Business Opening System) in 85 municipalities: and COFEMER's evaluation of 355 Regulatory
         Impact Assessments (RIAs) in 2005, with the objective of improving the cost-benefit analysis of
         regulation.




                                                     28

     (ii)Triggersfor Phase2: FacilitatenewbusinessentrybyincreasingtheSAREimplementationtotal
         to 100 municipalities, covering 40 percent of the country's GDP; and designinginstruments and
         a methodology to measurethe performance of the SARESand of the RIAs.

90.   Generalizing the implementation of the SARE system to reduce the time and cost of entry
regulations. The target i s for COFEMER to help implement the SARE system in more than 100
municipalities, representing more than 40 percent of Mexican GDP. The output i s to be measuredin the
start-up time for small and medium-size businesses (from an average of 52 days to 3 days only) and a
reduction in the associatedcost. The outcome i s to be measuredin the number of new companies created,
the value of investment in these entrepreneurial projects and the number of jobs created. Beyond the
numerical targets, COFEMER shall also create a system to measure SARE's effectiveness and monitor
its implementation in order to keep improving the processes and facilitate the introduction of the system
to new municipalities.

91. Reinforcing the Regulatory Impact Assessment process infederal institutions. This component
aims at generalizing the current RIA process among all agencies and institutions when applicable. This
includes raising the number of RIAs being conducted (400 in 2005) as well as the quality of the RIAs
being submitted for review. In that regard, training of public servants in impact assessment practices
remains crucial. Inorder to ensure compliance and accountability in the RIA process, enactment of the
by-laws of the Federal Administrative ProceduresLaw (Ley Federal de Procedimiento Administrativo) is
also important. The area where COFEMER needs to reinforce its RIA practice i s monitoring and
evaluation. The creation of a monitoring and evaluation framework on COFEMER's RIA process i s key
in that matter. For instance, COFEMER to date does not compare the cost it estimates for regulatory
proposals to actual cost, which could be measuredex-post. Similarly, COFEMER does not track how the
regulatory alternatives it suggested during the RIA process were actually applied and implemented.
Lastly, COFMER does not formally benchmark the quality of RIAS between the different secretariats
they originated from. A framework to achieve the above points should be put in place in the context of
this component in the medium term. The impact of such actions would be, over time, to reduce the cost
of doing business for Mexican entrepreneurs, especially compared with other Latin American countries,
with an emphasis on entry, licensing, tax and labor regulations.

92.    Increasing cooperation with sub-national jurisdictions and the private sector to keep
improving regulations at all levels. This component i s not part of the matrix but i s an important agenda
 item going forward for COFEMER. It aims at improving local competitiveness conditions by (i)
benchmarking the cost of doing business in at least 12 states in 2006, (ii)      facilitating the creation of
 competitiveness action plans at the sub-national level, and (iii)building an inventory of existing state and
 municipal regulatory improvement mechanisms. Inturn, these activities shall increase the quality of the
 systems usedby the municipalities (percentage of reduction of proceedings and procedures, improvement
 of administrative processes, response times, etc) and reduce the time and costs of business operations
 pertainingto entry regulation, property registry, contract enforcement, access to credit and others.


 COMPETITION

Description and Challenges
 93.   Competition, and the benefits it brings with respect to lower prices, greater variety and the
 development of new products, has been recognized as crucial for markets to work well and for
 increasing the wellbeing of a society. Policies that enhance competition are expected to bring not only
 static improvements in efficiency, especially in "disciplining" former monopolies, but also dynamic



                                                     29

improvements in efficiency, through improvements in productivity and innovation. Recent empirical
research indicates that regulation that lowers entry barriers and state control increases productivity and
technological inn~vation,~~stimulates business investment and increases long-run employment rates.26
Therefore, reforms to enhance competition could have significant effects on growth. A study of the
impact of pro-competitive regulatory reform in several industries in the United States found that annual
welfare gains in the part of GDP affected by reform were more than 7 percent, with 90 percent of the
benefits flowing to consumers.27Increasing competitive pressure can increase the probability of firm
innovationby more than 50 percent.28

94. OECD assessments show good competition policy but enforcement deficiencies in Mexico. An
OECD assessment of Mexico's competition law and policy completed in 199829concluded that the law
was well-conceived and that the CFC had strong enforcement powers and important authority to affect
direct market regulation by other agencies. There was, however, no clear base of support for competition
policy, and the CFC's enforcement record could be questioned. Since then, a new review by the OECD3'
confirmed that the strengths identifiedin the first review still pertain, but there were now no doubts about
the CFC's willingness to engage powerful economic interests. It also ascertained that the CFC had
matured into a credible and well-respected agency that had compiled a remarkable record of achievement
given the difficulties of its environment. It highlighted, however, the following challenges and
opportunities for improvement: (i)the limited degree of general support for competition policy; (ii)
certain deficiencies in statutory authority and judicial review processes constrain the CFC's ability to
address anticompetitive conditions effectively and efficiently; (iii)a decline in resources despite an
increasing workload; and (iv) some of the CFC's procedures and methods of interface with other
government entities reduce its efficacy as a law enforcement agency and competition advocate. As both
OECD assessments show, and despite having made progress in competition law and policy, there are
several aspects that still limit competition in Mexico. The OECD barriers to competition indicator that
measures legal barriers to competition and antitrust exemptions for public enterprises shows that this
index has deteriorated in Mexico and that the country has the highest barriers to competition among
OECD c~untries.~~

95. The challenges to effective competition in Mexico are reflected both in their impact on
investment and on the perceptions of entrepreneurs. According to IMCO's research on the impact of
10dimensions of competitiveness on investment for 45 economies, Mexico ranks 33 in terms of level of
competition and formality of the markets.32Furthermore, according to a recent governance survey, the
two largest market obstacles to business development identified by firms in Mexico are government
monopolies and private monopolie~.~~The Global Competition Review 2003 ranking of competition


25Nicoletti and Scarpetta, Regulation,Productivity, and Growth, OECD Evidence.The World Bank Policy Research
Working Paper. 2003.
*'NicolettiRegulatoryPolicies
26          and Scarpetta,ProductMarket Reforms:Macro Linkages and Effects on Growth, A Partial Survey.2004.
'*World
  OECD,                         in OECD Countries: From Interventionism to RegulatoryGovernance.
*'OECD,  Bank (2004a).
          BackgroundReport on the Role of Competition Policy inRegulatoryReform, in OECD,
Regulatory Reform inMexico. 1999.
30OECD, Competition Law and Policy in Mexico. an OECD Peer Review. 2004.
31In "Product Market Regulationin OECD Countries: 1998to 2003" (2005), legal barriersto competition measure
the explicit legal limitations on the number of competitors allowed in a wide range of businesssectors and antitrust
exemptions measurethe exemptionsto competition law for public enterprises. The index i s from 0 to 6 where 0 i s no
limitations and 6 denotesthe highest limitations.
32IMCO, Hacia unpacto de competitividad - Situaci6n de la competitividad de Mexico 2004.
33Centrode EstudiosEcon6micosdel Sector Privado (CEESP), Encuesta Sobre Gobernabilidady Desarrollo
Empresarial2005.


                                                          30

regimes in 25 countries places Mexico near the bottom with a score of 2.25, in a rating from 0-5, only
above Greece (2.0) and Argentina (1.5) since Mexico's competition regime i s considered to be severely
undercut by courts.34

96.    One major limitation on CFC's action arises from two types of proceedings at the Federal
Judiciary that are brought by dissatisfied parties to seek judicial relief. These two proceedings, the
amparo actions ("protection appeals") at the Federal District Court and the fiscal nullity actions at the
Federal Administrative and Fiscal Justice                  can take many years to resolve and have proliferated
over the years. On average it takes 401 days for these suits to be resolved and between 1994 and 2004 the
number of suits (amparos and fiscal nullity) increased from 41 to 170. Even if CFC's orders survive the
amparos and fiscal nullity actions, the imposed fines are not collected by the CFC but rather by the fiscal
department of the municipality of residency of the fined party. From 1993 to September 2005, only 3.3
percent of the total amount fined by the CFC was collected, while 72 percent i s under reconsideration
and 20 percent i s under amparo and fiscal nullity action.

97. Another important limitation of the CFC is that it lacks many powers common to competition
commissions in other countries. Among these i s the ability to divest monopolies, undertake searches,
implement leniency programs, and order preventive measures. Due to limitations in the Competition
Law, the CFC i s not able to prosecute and divest or impose price controls on a dominant firm that
restricts supply and raises prices. Also, without the use of search and seizure authority, it is difficult for
the CFC to detect surreptitious collusion. The lack of a leniency program for the CFC restricts its ability
to provide reductions in monetary penalties to conspirators who voluntarily reveal collusive agreements.


98.    CFC has limited coordination with other regulators at the federal, state and municipal levels.
Given the powers of the many sectoral regulators, of other agencies such as COFEMER and PROFECO,
and of state and municipal entities, the CFC could improve its effectiveness by working more closely
with them. The CFC could benefit from monitoring the sectoral regulator's regulatory postings and
comment on them. Likewise, the CFC is not taking advantage of data available from other regulators,
such as PROFECO, that could be useful in detecting collusive behavior. This collaboration and taking
advantage of the possibility of exploiting synergies could also prove usefulgiven the declining budget of
the CFC. Although the numberof cases has increased, the CFC's budget has fallen 9 percent in realterms
between 2000 and 2004.

99.    Mexico needs to improve its competition policy through a variety of actions. Based on the
various reviews of competition law and policy in Mexico, empirical evidence, and assessment by the
Bank, actions that will increase the general support for competition policy, remove the constraints in
statutory authority andjudicial review processes, make more efficient use of CFC's declining resources,
and enhance CFC's collaboration with other government entities would be needed to improve CFC's
ability to address anticompetitive conditions and improve the effectiveness of competition policy.
According to IMCO's research, a 10 percent improvement in the variables that compose the
"competition" dimension could increase investment per worker inMexico in7.5 percent (Table 3).




34 Global Competition Review, Volume 6 Issue 6 June 2003.
35 An amparo is a remedy against acts by any authority that violate any of the individual guarantees recognized by
the Mexican Constitution. It i s available in all legal matters and may be invoked in criminal, civil and administrative
trials. If CFC's resolution imposes a fine, then the private party can request a review of the Federal Administrative
and Fiscal Justice Court, which mostly considers tax cases, but also assertsjurisdiction to review any agency.


                                                            31

Measures to be Undertakenas Part of the Proposed Operation
100. As discussed in section IV (The Government's Program) and Annex 6, the federal government is
taking actions on the aforementioned issues to enhance both competition policy and the role of the CFC.
Among these, the Bank is supporting the following:

    (i)Prior Actions: Strengthen economic competition though the promotion of homogeneity of
          competition criteria within the Public Administration by establishing Cooperation Agreements
          in 15 states andwith COFEMER, CRE, andPROFECO.
    (ii) Triggerfor Phase 2: Strengthen the economic competition policy and its application through
          approval of the proposed amendments to the Federal Law on Economic Competition by the
          Congress. This component aims to increase the effectiveness of detecting and sanctioning
          monopoly practices. Key to this is an amendment to the Federal Economic Competition Law to
          avoid excessive legal challenges by dissatisfied parties to the resolutions issued by the CFC.
          Other challenges to be addressed by the amendment to the Federal Competition Law include an
          expansion of CFC's ability to divest monopolies, undertake searches, implement leniency
          programs, and order preventive measures. As part of the Government Program, the CFC i s
          providing technical support to legislative proposals for the amendment of the Federal
          Competition Law.
The matrix in Annex 2 summarizes the Bank-supported actions and indicators, while Annex 3 contains
the full government program:



POLICY AREA3: LOGISTICS TRADE    AND          FACILITATION

Description and Challenges
101. Mexico hasbeenlosingU.S. marketshare, particularlyto China(Figure 4). Exports to the U.S.,
particularly since NAFTA, have been an important pillar of the Mexican economy and the US.absorbs
88 percent of total Mexican exports. Hence, this fall in exports has generated significant concern.

102. There are considerable potential gains to trade facilitation reform in Mexico. Based on
Wilson, Mann, and Otsuki (ZOOS),       Table 6 outlines Mexico's trade gains (increase in exports plus
imports) from an improvement to the world (75 countries) average on four trade facilitation indicators.
The largest increase in trade would come from domestic reforms to port efficiency and technology
infrastructure in Mexico ($29 billion and $18 billion respectively).

                    Table 6: Mexico's Trade Gains from Trade Facilitation Improvement
                     Port           customs        Regulatory       Infrastructure
                  Efficiency     Environment      Environment        (technology)        Total
   ($billion)        28.8             7.8              10.1              17.7              64.3



103. Evidence suggests that internal conditions are limiting Mexico's export growth. Hanson and
Robertson (2005) suggest that in the 1990s import-demand conditions in the United States and other
destination markets for Mexican exports were not the dominant factor constraining growth in Mexican




                                                    32

exports.36They use a gravity model of trade to develop a framework for decomposing Mexico's export
growth into components associated with export-supply capacity, import-demand conditions, and other
factors. The result shows weak growth in export-supply capabilities, even during the 1990s expansion.
The preliminary evidence suggests that internal conditions inMexico associatedwith its ability to expand
export-supply capabilities-areas      directly related to trade costs and facilitation-are      a more important
factor in limiting the country's export growth than China's expanded trade into the U.S.

104. Doing Business "trading across borders" indicators show that Mexico has much room for
improvement. This is especially the case when comparing Mexico with its NAFTA alliance partner,
Canada. For example, the number of signatures required for exports in Mexico i s 4, compared with 2 in
Canada and time for export is 18 days, while it i s 12 days in Canada. Signatures required in Mexico for
imports total 11 while only 1is required in Canada. The total time for import i s 26 days compared with
12days in Canada.

105. A variety of measures are needed to advance broad trade facilitation goals. They include: (1)
lowering and harmonizingtariffs levels on imports for domestic firms to further reduce barriers for firms
in acquiring lower cost inputs for final prod~ction;~~(2) expanding use of information technology in
government activities related to imports and exports to lower trade costs for firms; (3) continued
streamlining of regulatory requirements for firms, includingthose in the maquiladora and PZTEX, sector
to lower trade costs; and (4) lowering logistics costs. Government actions to address these are discussed
in section IV (The Government's Program) and Annex 6.

106. Logistics costs are an important determinant of trade and competitiveness. Logistics costs
include transportation infrastructure and services (roads, ports, railways, and trucks), warehousing and
inventory financial costs, and the associated firm administrative costs resulting from supply chain
organization. At the micro level, the reduction of logistics costs enables firms to improve their financial
performance, resulting in positive economic outcomes for the country. With better logistics performance,
a firm will be able to reduce its inventory level and costs as well as the total costs of goods delivered,
allowing it to remain responsive to the client and consumers' preferences and ultimately increase its
market share. In the context of global sourcing of goods, this results in increased trade and higher-value
employment, leading to economic growth. Moreover, studies have shown that if a reduction in logistics
costs takes place, products that were unviable to produce for export could become viable after this cost
reduction. This is likely to be the case for primary products and commodities, such as fruits and
vegetables, which are likely to be produced inpoorer areas.

 107. Recent trends in international trade are increasing the importance of logistics, yet costs in
Mexico remain high. After the decrease in tariffs following bilateral, regional and multilateral trade
agreements, countries are relying less on preferential tariffs to promote exports in the long run.
Therefore, the improvement of logistic performance (cost and quality) i s progressively becoming a key
factor in countries' competitiveness. Despite this trend, logistics costs inMexico are particularly high (an
estimated 20 percent), while the OECD average is 9 percent.38A pilot survey of a new Logistics
Perception Index (LPI), aimed at measuring operators' perceptions of countries' logistics environments,




 36 Gordon H. Hanson and Raymond Robertson, "Booms and Busts in Mexican Exports: A Gravity Framework for
 Evaluating Supply and Demand Factors" paper presented at the World Bank Seminar, October 2005.
 37This strategy also will make more productive chains viable by allowing the importation of inputs and raw materials
 under competitive conditions.
 38Guasch(2004).


                                                         33

gives Mexico a score of 3.57 (7 being the best and 1 the worst), below other Latin American countries
like Argentina (4.46) and Brazil (3.83).39

108. One important logistics challenge is the need to improve some key internal corridors, as
manufacturers encounter high costs in delivering their products frodto the border or ports/airports.
Elevated transport costs and times have also ledto high inventory levels for businesses:duringthe 1990s,
Mexico had 90 percent higher raw materials inventory levels on average than the U.S.40 The lack of
efficient multi-modal transportation platforms, such as logistics centers, increases the time to deliver or
receive a product, as well as the associatedcost.

109. Customs is another key component of logistics costs. Average customs transactions involve
many parties, documents and data. Administrative costs relating to customs procedures were estimated at
7-10 percent of global trade41and Mexico is not an exception. The lack of flexibility in working hours
and location for product clearance adds to delays and costs. The customs administration would also
benefit from a modernization of its infrastructure, including better use of information technology.

110. Manufacturing companies, especially small and medium size enterprises (SMEs) often incur
higher costs due to a lack of skills in modern supply-chain management techniques. This involves
rethinking the complete supply chain from material and services sourcing to the use of specialized
distribution companies to deliver the end product to the client. Another factor slowing the adoption of
modem supply-chain management techniques i s the limited availability of efficient operators able to
deliver integrated logistics services.

Measures to be Undertakenas Part of the Proposed Operation
 111. These actions to strengthen trade facilitation and reduce logistics costs are achievable in the short
to medium term. They also reinforce policy reform measures already in place that will contribute in a
concrete and sustainable way to longer-term competitiveness, job creation, and poverty alleviation plans.
The benefits of continued reform in trade facilitation and logistics costs reduction promise significant
expansion of competitiveness for Mexican exporters. The matrix in Annex 2 summarizes the Bank-
supported actions and indicators, Annex 3 contains the full government program matrix, and Annex 6
contains more details about the supported programs.

     (i)     Prior Actions
             a. Streamline trade procedures and lower trade costs by: reducingtariffs between 3 and 10
                  points on more than 9,000 tariff lines in the Mexican tariff schedule (this reduction
                  affects 76% of all tariffs inthe schedule); simplifying requirements for export enterprises
                  to import inputs (6,500 PITEX and Maquila enterprises benefited, 90 percent of
                  manufacturing exports); implementing "Operation Paperless" in SICEX for operation
                  reports, import license applications, etc. includingpilots in SICEX of new SE paperless
                  instruments(quotas, certificates of origin, etc.); and implementingthe Logistics Practices
                  InnovationProgram in 92 businesses.
             b. Facilitate customs clearance by: establishing interconnectivity among various
                  secretariats involved in customs procedures ("Inter-Secretarias Information System")-
                  specifically   incorporation of Pitex, Maquila, and PROSEC information; and
                  incorporation of quota administration information.


 39The LPI is a World Bank initiativeimplementedwith the supportof the TurkuSchoolof Economicsand Business
 Administration, Finland.A pilot survey was carried out in 2003.
 40Guaschand Kogan(2003).
 4'TradeFacilitation:Behindthe BorderIssues, WorldBank.


                                                         34

              c. Improve the quality of port services by: moving PFP and PGR control outside the port
                 areas; installing scanners in main commercial ports; coordinating inspections among
                 sectors (AGA, SEMARNAT, Customs Agents, etc.); modernizing customs facilities
                 (buildings, video, dynamic scales, etc.); and completion of the "Efficiency and
                 productivity study of the port of Veracruz."
    (ii)      Triggersfor Phase 2
              a. Streamline trade procedures and lower trade costs by: simplifying non-tariff regulations;
                 further strengthening export promotion programs (PITEX and Maquiladoras) to increase
                 benefits; including other agencies (SALUD, SAGARPA, NOM'S, etc.) in the paperless
                 program; implementingthe Foreign Trade Law so that federal agencies administer non-
                 tariff regulations electronically; assisting in the implementation of the Deputy Chamber
                  initiative which allocates resources to agencies that oversee trade regulations for
                  information infrastructure (SAGARPA, SALUD, AGA, SEMARNAT, etc.); and
                 broadening and strengthening the Logistics Practices InnovationProgram.
              b. Facilitate customs clearance: Expand the "Inter-Secretarias Information System" by
                  linking: SAGARPA information system (2006); automatic notification information
                  (2006); and NOMS SEMANART and the Tequila Regulatory Council (2007).
              c. Improve the quality of port services by: defining port community information systems
                  norms and implementing them in 3 ports, reducing the percentage of prior inspections,
                  and improving the coordination of official agencies within ports; harmonizing and
                  increasing service hours of port authorities and operators.




POLICYAREA4: ENERGY
Description and Challenges
112. Energy is a major driver of economic growth, productivity and competitiveness. The energy
sector i s of high strategic importance to the economy. Even slight changes in the availability and price of
hydrocarbon fuels or electricity can have serious effects on economic growth. An increase in the relative
price of energy inputs increases the cost of production of goods and services, thereby putting pressure on
profit margins. A modeling exercise by the IMF (2000) shows that a sustained US$5 per barrel increase
in the price of oil results in a 0.1 percent decrease in GDP-even in oil exporting countries such as
Mexico. Since January 2002, oil prices have increased from about US$20 to US$55 per                Another
study showed that a ten percent increase in electricity infrastructure stock (generation capacity) could
lead to a general increase of 2 percent in manufacturinggrowth with a higher impact on 31 percent of all
manufacturing

 113. Price volatility and uncertainty associated with fuel availability and the quality of service
significantly affects consumers and producers in the economy. Both energy and non-energy
businesses' investment decisions are based on expectations about energy prices and service quality
levels. The countries that have achieved a secure supply of fuels and electricity at competitive prices




~




42West Texas IntermediateCrude Oil Price.
43CastaAeda Sabido, Alejandro (2003). Infrastructureand ManufacturingGrowth, ElColegio de Mexico.


                                                      35

have exhibited high levels of economic development and consequently an increase in their level of
competitiveness.44

114. The Mexican hydrocarbons industry faces important challenges. About 60 percent of oil
revenues are diverted to finance at least 35 percent of national budgetary needs. This has a significant
impact on the capacity of the Mexican oil company (PEMEX) to finance new infrastructure for
sustainable and competitive growth. Furthermore, meeting the growing demand for energy will require a
significant increase in investment which the government will not be able to finance unless it severely
curtails spending on other important social goals (such as health, education and rural infrastructure).
Breaking out of this vicious circle is one of the most important challenges facing Mexico today. To a
large extent, the technical and operational efficiency of state-owned enterprises depend on the levels of
spending approved by Treasury and the Congress every year. But beyond the spending constraints,
various national and international experts agree that PEMEX needs to make additional efforts to increase
operational efficiency, lower costs and improve the quality of service. A more detailed analysis of the
sector is found in Annex 7.

115. Despite the fact that Mexico has the sixth-largest gas reserves inthe Western Hemisphere, the
country imports 15-20 percent of its domestic demand.45These imports are mainly supplied by the U S
natural gas market, one of the most volatile of the world. Natural gas prices inMexico have increased by
236 percent over the last six years and are among the highest prices in the world. The lack of economic
and technical efficiency in the hydrocarbons sector has also translated into high fuel oil prices, which
have increasedby 183percent since 1999.

116. Electricity prices are among the highest in the world. Yet, average tariffs still fall short of
covering costs despite steady nominal increases over the past 15 years. In 2003, electricity subsidies
financed by the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE) absorbeda significant amount of public resources
(72.9 MxP Billion or 1.08 percent of GDP). Despite the subsidy, electricity tariffs in Mexico have
increased 77 percent since 1998, compared with a rise of only 14 percent in the US. In particular, the
commercial tariff inMexico is 80 percent higher than the US average. Transmission tariffs inMexico are
also among the highest inthe world, below only Japan and Italy.

117. The service quality of electric utilities on the other hand still lags behind international
standards and client expectations. For instance, when annual interruptions and distribution losses are
compared with Latin American private distribution companies, CFE performance i s characteristically
poor. Labor efficiency indicators also remain below international benchmarks (PER, 2005). Despite the
fact that industries are exposed to high peak electricity tariffs and low levels of service quality, there are
a number of barriers preventingthe installation of self-generation and co-generation facilities. Examples
include complex grid interconnection protocols, high fees, inflexible conditionality in interconnection
contracts, and difficulty in obtaining the necessarypermits.

 118. In the manufacturing sector, the cost of energy as a percentage of total production costs
increased by 2.25 percentage points to an average of 10.5 percent between 1995 and 2002. This is
comparable to labor costs, which are in the range of 4-20 percent. The energy-intensive industrial
sub-sectors are particularly vulnerable to volatility in prices and availability uncertainty. The cost of
energy as a percentage of the total production costs for these types of industries i s particularly high (see
Table 7 below). The quality and price of the products from energy-intensive industries are of


44Asp, Pedro. 2004. Impact0 del Sector Energe'tico en el Desarrollo Econdmico del Pais con Visidnde Corto y
Largo Plazos, in Situacih de la Competitividad en Mexico, Instituto Mexican0 para la Competitividad, Mexico.
45SENERdata. 2004-2005.


                                                      36

fundamental importance, as they are used as raw materials in the manufacturing of other diverse
products. For instance, the price o f cement in Mexico i s about twice the price in the US, the European
Union and other countries around the world (115 USD/ton, CEMEX Data 2004). Steady increases in
energy prices have had serious effects on the costs o f production across different industries.

                     Table 7: Costsof Energyas a Percentageof Total ProductionCosts
         I            Industry             I                           I                         I
                                           I        Percentage         I          Source
           DATA FOR MEXICO




           GlassIndustry                                8-12             EIA, USA, 2005
           Steel                                       12-15             EIA, USA, 2005
           PetroleumIndustry                         Up to 85            EIA, USA, 2005




119. Over the last five years, there has been a steady fall in the number of energy-intensive
processing facilities in Mexico. This has been largely attributed to the increasing costs of energy and to
uncertainty regarding the availability o f natural gas and other fuels (Arizmendi, 2005). The studies and
surveys conducted by the Center for Studies on Competitiveness (CEC-ITAM) to analyze the competitive
status and prospects o f different industries - including mining, electronics and vehicle parts - have
concluded that high energy costs and the low quality o f infrastructure services are factors contributing to
lower economic efficiency and prospects for growth and competitiveness (CEC, 2004).

 120. Reforms to the energy sector maybe extremely difficult to achieve. Over the last decade,
different groups have called for the implementation o f far reaching reforms in sector policies as a
necessary condition to attract sufficient private financing, improve efficiency, lower costs, and expand
the sector's contribution to the federal budget and the economy. While a national consensus has not been
reached with regard to the nature and extent of energy sector reforms, the World Bank considers that the
G O M has gradually taken conservative steps to allow limited private sector participation and improve
transparency and regulatory accounting.

Measures to be Undertakenas Part of the Proposed Operation
 121. To fully address the aforementioned issues regarding price, subsidies, service quality, and
 efficiency, far-reaching reforms will be required. Since a consensus has not been reached on these issues,
 this DPL is supporting measures to promote transparency and regulatory improvements which will
 enhance competitiveness. They can be seen as a first step toward energy sector reformthat will shed light
 on how the sector currently performs. The matrix in Annex 2 summarizes the Bank-supported actions and
 indicators, Annex 3 contains the full government program matrix, and Annex 7 contains more details
 about the sector.

     (i)Prior Actions: Implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments for the energy
         sector through the integration o f an inter-institutional regulatory accounting working group
         (comprised o f SENER, CFE, Luz y Fuerza, CRE) to implement the measures established in the



                                                      37

        "Plan de Acciones Concretas en Materia de Mejora Regulatoria que FormanParte de la Agenda
        Competitividad Inmediata en Materia de Energia" (publishedin the DOF on August 11, 2005;
        issuance of a status report on quality and performance indicators for the electricity sector; and
        programfor the evaluation of performance indicators for PEMEX.
    (ii)Triggers for Phase 2: Increased transparency on electricity pricing and quality through
        publishing an agreement by SENER with the regulatory accounting elements; issuing a
        COFEMER agreement to increase transparency regarding costs; publication of cost,
        management, quality of service indicators for the electricity sector; official publication of
        performance indicators for PEMEX; and official publication of the regulations for the operation
        of hydrocarbon sector. These regulations include: LP Gas regulation; agreement that establishes
        the regulation of first-hand sales of petroleumproducts; agreement that establishesthe terms and
        contractual conditions of the delivery-receipt of petroleum products or basic petrochemicals
        obtained as sub-products from the production of non-basic petrochemicals.


                             VI.    OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT ANALYSIS
122. Overall, the policies supported by this loan are expected to have significant positive poverty
and social effects, as described below. Many of these effects will be indirect and will emerge over the
medium to long-term. Through periodic household surveys and other activities to track progress on
poverty reduction, the Government will have the capacity to monitor and managethese effects.
123. The proposed program seeks to enhance competitiveness, which is an important driver of
growth and therefore of poverty reduction. Nearly all the countries that have had long term success in
reducing poverty have done so with higher rates of economic growth (left panel of Figure 11).& This
association i s also true for Mexico, where poverty reduction has tracked growth in GDP per capita over
the last decade (right panel of Figure 11). However, after experiencing robust GDP per capita growth
following the 1994 Tequila Crisis, income levels have been more or less stagnant since 2000. The recent
growth slowdown has meant significant lost poverty reduction opportunities, although programs such as
Oportunidades have helped offset this trend.47For Mexico to break out of its low-growth trajectory and
cut poverty, it will have to boost growth and improve its productivity and competitiveness. The measures
supported by this proposed operation can reasonably be expected to contribute to this, although it would
be impossible to isolate and quantify the precise impact, given that many other factors cause growth and
poverty reduction.




46World Bank (2004a).
47For a more comprehensive analysis of poverty reduction inMexico, see World Bank (2004~).


                                                       38

                        Figure 11: Poverty Reductionis Closely Associated with Growth
-                          World                                                               Mexico
-3E
2                                           .
     50                                                    China         17,000-   -            - - -       ___ _.__0%
                                                                                                                  "_"-
                                East Asia other than Chtria
     40                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                     --
                                                                                                                 I      10%

=                                                                                                                          !i1
m                                                                                                                    -- 20%
&i , 30
iz                                                                                                                   -- 30%
-3
n
     20
-                                 India                                                                              :I 40%

x
P                                                                                                                       50%f
0.
?s
:    lo                                                                                                              -- 60%
5
s    o                                                                                                               --
-
cu
-                                                                                                                       70%

0                                                                                                                      ,80%
0    10
       -2     0        2          4          B          8       10              1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004
               Averaga per capita growth rate, l!%l2001                 1 GDP per capita +Extreme Poverty +Moderate  Povertd
Source: World Bank (2004a.)                                         Source: ENIGHandWBDI; World Bank calculations.


124. In addition to driving growth, the actions supported by this operation would have significant
positive social benefits at the microeconomic level. These include impacts on small businesses, the
creation of job and training opportunities for educated youth and high-skill labor, and the capacity of
COFEMER to improve the cost-benefit ratio of regulations for the overall society. The sections below
describe the potential impacts. A larger-scale poverty and social impact evaluation4* will be carried out
for the second phase. This evaluation will try to assess the size and depth of the impacts in more detail,
considering that most of the strategies proposed by the GOM originated before the contracting of this
loan, which may require the analysis of a more comprehensive time period.49

Impacts on Small Businesses
125. An important set of actions supported by this loan is targeted at facilitatingthe entrance of
new small businesses in the formal market and at improving their profitability.This is extremely
important considering that small and mediumenterprises (SMEs) represent as much as three quarters of
total employment in Mexico. The specific actions having a positive impact on the entrance of new small
businessesin the formal market are: (1) Actions aiming at reducingcosts and time of business entry; and
costs of regulatory compliance are expected to have two positive impacts. First they will reduce fixed
costs and the burden of bribery. Small businesses that have greater difficulty bearing these costs will
benefit from these measures. According to the Center of Economic Studies of the Private Sector, on
average, small and mediumbusinessesinMexico spend 6 percent of their revenues on informal payments
to public officials. This cost is significantly higher than the cost of similar payments for big businesses,
which on average is 4 percent of their revenue.50Second, they will create incentives for theformalization
of businesses currently operating in the informal sector. As 40 percent of the active population in
Mexico works in the informal sector, formalization will have an important social impact by increasing
employees' access to the services provided by the Znstituto Mexican0 del Seguro Social, training


48 The GOM and the World Bank will create an interdisciplinaryanalysisgroup with the participationof academia
and poverty experts, in order to define the proper methodologyto carry out this evaluation, accordingto the
availabilityof sources of information.
49 For instance,the trade liberalizationbeganin 1986 and deepened in 1994 with the NAFTA. Therefore, the impact
won't necessarilybe the result of the import duties reductionconsideredunder this loan.
50 Centro de EstudiosEcon6micosdel Sector Privado-CEESP (2005), Encuestasobre gobernabilidad y desarrollo
empresarial2005, available at www.cce.orp.mx/ceesp.


                                                                  39

opportunities, and pensions. (2) The enhancement of the anti-trust law and its enforcement at a
decentralized level will also contribute to improve the business environment for the entrance in the
market of new small businesses and will reduce the prizes for the consumers. (3) Actions enhancing the
efficiency of customs and ports will reduce corruption and benefit businesses interested in improving
their delivery time. This i s relevant, since services at customs are perceived by Mexicans to be the 3rd
major cause of ~orruption.~'Additionally, higher performance of ports resulting from the actions
supported by the loan, will scale-up port activity, and thus create opportunities for port-related business
in the areas and cities surrounding the port. This will have a positive impact on employment and the
development of small business.

126. The specific actions having a positive impact on the profitability of small businesses are: (1) the
implementation of the Logistics Practices Innovation Program, which will considerably reduce the
operation costs of small businesses that participate in the program; and (2) the programs promoting
technological innovation, which will increase the access to and the effective use of technology by small
businesses.

127. Nevertheless, an important percentage of small businesses in Mexico are experiencing large
difficulties in recovering operational and investment costs. A study conducted by the Znstituto
Mexicano para la Competitividad (IMCO) shows that small businesses operating in all economic sectors
have rates of returnbelow the cost of capital.52This situation, which translates into a high mortality rate
for these types of businesses, contributes to undermining the cost-effectiveness of those actions aiming at
improvingthe opportunities for the creation of small business.

Impacts of Trade Liberalization
128. Though further trade liberalization and trade facilitation are expected to bring long-term
benefits in terms of competitiveness, economic growth, and employment generation, some potential
effects require further analysis and monitoring. In the long run, the maquila sector, which accounts
for approximately 46 percent of Mexican exports, will benefit from the tariff reductions, presentedby the
GOM as an undertaken action, which translates into an increase in secure employment in the sector.53
Additionally, a World Bank study estimates that this tariff reform will result in an increase of 0.1 percent
in the level of employment of unskilled labor. However, since the beginning of the trade liberalization
processin Mexico, benefits have not beendistributed equally among all the sectors of the population and
all the regions of the country. Unfortunately, there i s no official mechanismto systematically monitor the
social impacts of trade liberalization. That makes a detailed poverty and social impact evaluation
advisable in the preparation of the second phase of the operation, which would assess the size and depth
of the impacts of the trade liberalization actions, including the actions supported by the loan on different
stakeholders, and suggest specific measures to monitor and mitigate potential negative impacts on the
poor.

Impacts of Innovation, Technology Development, and Training
129. The actions supported by the loan, especially with respect to the development of innovation
technology research and businesses, have a direct and positive impact on the levels and the quality
of employment of high-skilled labor force and educated youth. Overall, these actions also positively
impact consumers in so far as new technologies will improve the quality and reduce the price of products
manufactured by industries that have adopted those innovations. Additionally, these measures also


"CEESP(2005).
j2Efecto de algunos escenariosde Reforma Tributaria en la rentabilidad de las empresas.IMCO, 2002.
j3Economist Intelligence Unit (2005). Country Profile Mexico.


                                                       40

contribute to reducing the brain drain from Mexico to other countries. Universities and educational
institutions will also benefit from a positive indirect impact of these actions, since more pressure will be
placed on their capacity to meet the demands of the productive sector, which may lead to constructive
changes in their cumcula and researchagendas.

130. Actions to ensure that low-skilled labor takes advantage of these opportunities, through an
improvement in the quality of data on training and the issuance of secondary school certificates for
youth having dropped out of school, will have a positive impact. The dimension of this impact will
rely on the adequacy of the education received by graduates to respond to the needs of the labor market.
According to the XI1Census of Population and Housing, there are around 15 millionpeople that have not
finished secondary education in Mexico. The potential increase in the revenues of poor families resulting
from this measure i s important. Head of households having completed secondary education have the
potential of obtaining an income that is 43 percent higher than those without education.54However,
according to the World Bank poverty assessment in Mexico, in the past ten years an increase in the
educational level has failed to pay off in higher incomes because the lack of expansion in earning
opportunities. The gains resulting from the completion of one additional year of secondary education
(yearly rate of return of secondary education) have decreased considerably since 1993. In 2002, when
estimated at the median of the conditional earnings distribution, upper complete secondary education was
associatedwith only, on average, 13 percent more income compared with a person with lower secondary
complete education.jj These results contrast sharply with the high rate of return of migration for
individuals having completed upper secondary education. Under these conditions, the impact of this
measure on the poor i s highly dependent on: (1) the ability of the GOM to increase earning opportunities
for low-skilled labor; and (2) the capacity of educational institutions to adapt their curriculums in order
to match the demands of the labor market. The efforts of the GOM, with Bank support, to improve the
quality of secondary education programs and the implementation of 22 Labor Information Centers, as
part of the GOM Program on Competitiveness, will help to more readily connect firms seeking workers
with job seekers and their skills.

Impacts of theActions to Enhance the Transparency of the Regulatory Process
 131. According to the OECD56,excessivediscretionary power during the making of new regulation
has decreased in Mexico as a result of the regulatory reform, and public officials are more
accountable for their decisions and actions. COFEMER has been created in order to legitimate
government action on regulatory policy by increasing the quality and transparency of the regulatory
process, and by promoting systematic public consultation with the groups targeted by regulations.
Overall, COFEMER actions will positively impact poor and vulnerable groups, since with the new
regulatory process, regulations affecting them can be modified or safeguards can be included in order to
prevent or compensate for negative impacts. Legally, COFEMER i s a "deconcentrated administrative
body" of the Ministry of Economy. As such, COFEMER has important functions, and has considerable
technical, operational, financial independence, although it maintains organic links with the Ministry.j7
The accountability framework of COFlEMER includes the creation of a political body, the Federal
Regulatory Improvement Council, which includes representatives of major ministries as well as of labor
and business representatives. This council has the mandate of playing a role in the oversight of
COFEMER's actions, along with the Congress.5*A poverty and social impact evaluation for the second


54World Bank (2004c), PovertyinMexico: an assessment of conditions, trends and government strategy.
j5World Bank (2004~).
56 OECD (2004), Mexico, Progress in ImplementingRegulatory Reform, OECDReviewsof Regulatory Reform.
j7 OECD (2004).
58Current membersof the FederalRegulatoryImprovement Councilare: the Ministerof Finance, the Minister of
Labor, the Ministerof the PublicFunction(former Comptroller-Generaland Vice-president of the Council), the


                                                      41

phase of the operation will help to evaluate the implementation of the accountability framework of this
quasi autonomous agency, as well as its capacity to involve different stakeholders in its governance
structure and to operate in a more transparent way.

Impacts of theperformance indicatorsfor the Electricity Sector

132. The improvement of the performance indicators for the electricity sector in the medium term will
have a positive impact on the quality of the provision of power. Poor users will benefit from this effect
since a poor quality of power provision has primarily affected low income households and micro-
businesses. Additionally, the use of new performance indicators opens the opportunity to involve an
ample range of users in the evaluation of the quality of the services based on their own experience. On
the other hand, the experience of other countries shows that the use of performance indicators leads to
tighter controls over power connections. Poor households in urban areas that are currently makinguse of
non-billing power connections will suffer from these controls. A poverty and social impact evaluation
will assess the feasibility of using participatory performance evaluation mechanisms such as citizens'
report cards, and will informthe preparation of the second phase of the operation. It will also estimate the
dimension of the economic impact of this measure on poor households and will suggest a menu of
mitigating actions.


PUBLICPARTICIPATION
133. The preparation of this programmatic loan has contributed to the dialogue among various
partsof the government as well as with business sector stakeholders. Duringthe initialpreparation of
the DPL, the Bank with the support of the GOM organized 10 focus groups with approximately 90
businesspeoplefrom various sectors of the economic activity; directors of associations and chambers of
commerce; and more than 30 officials from the federal, state and municipal governments. The Consejo
Coordinador Empresarial, the major business umbrella organization in Mexico, was instrumental in
coordinating the implementation of these focus groups. International and domestic firms participating
had different sizes and represented the following sub-sectors: (i)textile and garments; (ii)                 metallic
products, machinery and equipment; (iii)         agro-industry and food; and (iv) chemical and rubber and
plastic products. Together, these four sub-sectors represent 80 percent of the manufacturing GDP and
more than 80 percent of employment in the manufacturing sector, and about 92 percent of exports. The
inputs of the focus groups were valuable in helping to understand some of the most important obstacles
to improving competitiveness inMexico.

134. Several clear messages from the entrepreneurs and public officials emerged from this
dialogue. The following major obstacles to Mexico's competitiveness were identified: lack of
contractual legal security; lack of capacity and efficiency of road, air and maritime transportation; poor
coordination among Federal, State and Municipal levels and lack of regulatory stability; limited focus of
the government on promotinginnovation, and by firms on investing in R&D; and the high price of public
utilities services. Additionally, obstacles were mentioned that had a markedly regional, size or sectoral
incidence such as the impact of crime and insecurity on the textile, garment, electronics and computer
sectors, and the lack of policies to support exports as a major constraint to the textile and the agro-



General Director of COFEMER, the Governor of the Bank of Mexico, five business sector representatives, at least
one representative from the labor, agricultural and academic sector, the President's Legal Counsel, the President of
the Federal Competition Commission (Cornisidn Federal de Cornpetencia - CFC) and the President of the Federal
Consumer Protection Agency (Procuraduri'a Federal del Consurnidor - PROFECO).




                                                         4L

industrial sectors and to the small and medium enterprises. Several sectors complained about the lack of
domestic suppliers of their inputs. Overall the perceptions of public officials and entrepreneurs were
similar for most of the issues. However, public officials considered lack of infrastructure, and
distribution and transportation costs to be much more important obstacles to competitiveness than
entrepreneurs did. On the other side, entrepreneurs assigned greater importance to the lack of export
promotion mechanisms as a major constraint for competitiveness than public officials did. The results of
the focus groups were presentedto several institutions including the Consejo Coordinador Empresarial,
universities and other public and private institutions. This process helped to bringtogether the priorities
as perceived by the private and public sectors for the competitiveness agenda. This processhas continued
through the implementation of Phase Iof the Trade and Competitiveness AAA, through which the Bank
has reachedout to other stakeholders such as Congress and the states.

135. Aside from the focus groups process, the government has engaged in dialogue with private
sector leadership, such as the Consejo Coordinador Empresarial and other private chambers and
associations. This helped broaden the GOM's Competitiveness Agenda. Also, complementary to the
government efforts, the World Bank held discussions with the private sector during the DPL preparation
mission in September. Lastly, the World Bank team has reachedout to the Academia and think-tanks and
developed a partnership with the Znstituto Mexicano para la Competitividad (IMCO), a leading think-
tank on competitiveness issues in Mexico. The IMCO carried out a comprehensive analysis of
competitiveness issues (partially supported by the Bank) that has been a major analytical piece on
competitiveness and has helped bringcompetitiveness matters to the forefront.

136. The impact of IMCO's report has been huge and continues to be felt. The report was presented
to President Fox in February 2005, at which time the President made a speech highlighting the
importance of competitiveness. A working group has also been formed inthe Senate to address the issues
raised in the report. In September 2005, the first part of a "Competitiveness Pact" was convened by
Carlos Slim, with 800 of the most important business and civil society representatives in the country in
attendance. The participants signed an accord-based      on IMCO's report-that     presents a vision of the
country and a series of petitions to future presidential candidates from all political parties. Also in
September 2005, IMCO releasedits secondyear of competitiveness monitoring indicators.

 137. Dialogue will continue with relevant stakeholders. The dissemination of the SecondPhase of the
Trade and Competitiveness AAA and the Policy Notes being prepared for the next administration would
allow dialogue to continue during 2006. As part of the proposed poverty and social impact analysis that
could be carried out duringthe preparation of the second stage of this operation, extensive consultations
with different stakeholderswould take place.


IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
 138. Each one of the sectoral ministries and agencies involved in this operation will be responsible for
implementation of the proposed components of the operation and for reporting progress. The Secretariat
of the Economy (SE) will be responsible for coordinating actions among the sectoral agencies. The
individual sectoral ministries and agencies will be responsible for collecting the data on the selected
indicators, and as the executing agency, the SE would also coordinate the information to be provided by
the GOM for the elaboration of any Report related with this loan. The administration of this loan will be
the responsibility of Nacional FinancieraS.N.C. (NAFIN),as financial agent of the Federal Government.
NAFINwill be in charge of the coordination and fulfillment of the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement.




                                                     43

FIDUCIARY ASPECTS,DISBURSEMENT,AND AUDITING
139. The Mexico Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was completed in October
2003. The assessment focused on the federal public sector, which was considered to have generally
sound financial management systems and institutions. Country financial management(FM)riskwas rated
moderate, and all individual risk factors were rated low or moderate. The results of the CFAA have a
direct impact on this project, as funds will flow into Mexico's public FM systems. The Bank has recently
supported government efforts to strengthen some of the areas considered by the CFAA to be
opportunities for improvement, such as the accounting processes and information systems.

140. The proposed Competitiveness DPL will follow the Bank's disbursement procedures for
development policy lending. The loan proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of
the development policy lending program and not tied to any specific purchases. The US. dollar loan
would be made to the United Mexican States. The loan would cover the first of the three operations
under the program.

141. Flow of funds (including foreign exchange) is subject to normal FM processes. It i s not
possible to track the ultimate use of the foreign exchange provided by the Competitiveness DPL
proceeds, but loan proceeds flow into a dedicated account59and from it to Mexico's budget, and are thus
subject to normal public FM processes. By way of a letter, the Government will provide confirmation to
the Bank when the loan amount has been credited to an account used to finance budgeted expenditures
(as soon as step 3 in the following flowchart i s concluded). The Bank camed out activities to provide
reasonable assurancethat loan proceeds flow into Mexico's normal public FM systems. Given the ample
experience of Mexico managing Bank's DPLs, the Bank analyzed projects' flow of funds and reviewed
the audit report of Banco de Mhico (the Central Bank) and the Country Financial Accountability
Assessment report (CFAA). The IMF's report on the Safeguards Assessment of the Central Bank has not
been conducted. The following flowchart illustrates the flow of funds.

                                                                                      Public Financial
          -,                 Dedicated              General Account in the             Management
                             Account                     Central Bank                    Systems
                   1                          2
  World Bank '           CentralBank                 Secretariatof Finance
                                                       National Treasury                  Budget



142. The FM assessment concluded that from a fiduciary point of view, the control environment,
procedures and regulations governing this Bank operation are generally adequate. Therefore and
based on the flow of funds described above, the results of the work done by the Bank, and considering
that the size of this DPL i s relatively small if compared with Mexico's overall public expenditures and
foreign exchange reserves held by Banco de MCxico (the central bank), no additional FM-related
arrangements are neededfor this project.

143. The Bank will not request a special audit of the dedicated account established in Banco de
M6xic0, as it i s already audited as part of the standard local regulation e.g., these type of accounts are


59 This dedicated account in the central bank is a local standard procedure for DPLs (established by the GOM for
control purposes), and it is not an additional FM-related arrangement requested by the Bank. The Bank has accepted
this procedure to-date, but as aresult of the ongoing Country Systems work inMexico, inthe future funds might flow
directly from the Bank to a general foreign currency account in the central bank.


                                                          44

audited by the internal control unit of Banco de Mhico, the Supreme Audit Institution ASF and a
external private firm, the latter as part of the annual audit review of the Financial Statements of the
central bank.



ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS
144. The country policies supported by the proposed loan do not entail significant effects on
Mexico's environment, forests, or other natural resources. The policies will not result in any
significant commitment of such resources. Although some minor effects are possible, any effects are
likely on balance to be either positive or benign. For example:

0   Increased trade through trade facilitation can impact the environment through three channels: scale
    effects, composition effects, and changes in techniques / technology. Scale effects, meaning overall
    increases or decreases in trade, from policies supported by this loan are quite small. According to a
    World Bank study, the Bank-supported tariff reduction program was estimated to increaseexports by
    0.7 percent and GDP by 0.1 percent. Composition effects refer to the growth or decline of more-
    versus less-polluting industries. The same Bank analysis found that relatively non-polluting
    industries would experience the largest gains in output. These include electronic equipment,
    construction, machinery and equipment, and motor vehicles and parts (mainly assembly). More
    heavily polluting industries were expected to experience drops in output.60Changes in techniques
    refer to more efficient (less polluting) technologies or processes that are introduced through
    increasedtrade. While impossible to measure, this effect is expected to have a positive environmental
    impact.

0   The innovation support programs supported by this operation could lead to some small effects by
    encouraging the adoption of new technologies that use resources, like energy or water, more
    efficiently. Energy regulatory measures that promote improvements in technical performance could
    also have positive impacts on the environment. Other potential small positive effects are illustrated
    by recent experiences inMexico showingthat increasedcompetitiveness leading to economic growth
    has taken pressure off the environment by making more resources available for environmental
    protection. Currently the GOM devotes 0.60 percent of GDP to public environmental expenditures.

 145. Although the Bank-supportedpolicies are expected to have only minor environmental effects,
Mexico recognizes the importance of proper environmental policies and proactive government
monitoring within an adequate environmental regulatory infrastructure. To address such concerns,
Mexico has established a state-of-the art environmental mainstreaming program aimed at promoting
clean production mechanism and sustainable development. The GOM's environmental mainstreaming
program (Programa de Transversalidad Ambiental) includes institutional strengthening actions in the
implementingagencies of this operation (Secretary of Finance and Public Credit, Secretary of Economy,
Secretary of Energy, and Secretary of Communications and Transport). The Bank, through the
Programmatic Environment DPL (ENVDPL), i s                 supporting the GOM in: (i)mainstreaming
environmental concerns in the development agendas of key sectors-tourism,        energy, forestry and water;
and (ii)  improving the effectiveness and efficiency of local environmental management processes in
Mexico. Most relevant to the proposed Competitiveness DPL i s the energy area, which supports the
development of a package of legal reforms and regulations needed for promotion of renewable energy
sources. Since energy i s a critical factor of production, ensuring a secure and sustainable energy supply i s
important to Mexico's long-termability to compete.


   Evidencefor determiningmore-versus less-pollutingindustriescomes fromManiandWheeler (1998).


                                                       45

146. Mexico's Environmental Mainstreaming Program has strengthened the GOM's country
systems particularly at identifying and addressing environmental problems and priorities in an effective
manner and taking into account concerns of stakeholders (including the most vulnerable groups).
Mexico's Environmental Mainstreaming Program also embodies processes to adequately monitor and
evaluate progress to overcome these environmental priority problems. Simultaneously, Mexico has in
place environmental safeguards aimed at offsetting and minimizing potential environmental risks
associated with economic growth. The Legal framework LEGPA, and NAFTA and other trade
agreements contain provisions to strengthen enforcement of environmental regulations. Reduction of
export and import tariffs has been accompanied with strong environmental policies and higher
environmental standards that have resulted in shifts in the composition of production, exports, and FDIto
energy and resource efficient sectors.



RISKS AND RISKMITIGATION
147. The proposed program faces two main risks: one political and one institutional. The political
risk is associated with the presidential elections planned for July 2006. While the programhas developed
a significant sense of ownership and commitment among the different stakeholders, a new administration
may choose to shift priorities within or away from the program. As a mitigation strategy, the second loan
i s planned for mid 2007 in order to provide enough opportunity for the Bank to establish a dialogue with
the new administration on the competitiveness program. The choice of instrument also reduces this risk,
as a single-tranche DPL in a medium-term framework is adaptable to changes on the ground. Another
mitigating factor i s that the second phase of the Mexico Competitiveness AAA will be completed by
early 2006 and will provide an opportunity and basis for engagement with the various stakeholders and
the new administration on the proposed competitiveness-enhancing reforms.

148. Another political risk mitigation strategy has been to include the private sector in the
formulation of the country's competitiveness priorities. As outlined in the Public Participation section
above, engagement with the private sector has meant that the GOM's Competitiveness Agenda and the
areas that the DPL addresses are in line with the constraints perceived by the private sector. This broad
consensus around the bases of the program decreases the risk that the next administration will shift
priorities. Lastly, political risk is limited by not including major labor and energy structural reforms that
are politically sensitive and could engender opposition from one or more of the major political parties. In
this sense, the Bank-supported actions are non-controversial. An alternative, to avoid the political risk of
the transition, is to only continue engagement on competitiveness through the AAA. However, this
alternative has been ruled out since it does not provide continuity to existing programs or promote a
mediumterm holistic, cross-governmental program for improvingproductivity.

 149. Institutional coordination issuesalso present a risk. A competitiveness program is necessarily
a broad operation that involves many secretariats and agencies and there i s a risk that all of these
agencies could have difficulties coordinating among themselves. This risk, again, has been mitigated by
the choice as lead counterpart in the GOM of the Secretariat of Economy, which has the technical
credibility and has proved to be a capable coordinator during preparation. Past experience from
elsewhere also suggests that this design can be workable.

 150. The program also faces risks associated with potential impacts of the Bank-supported policy
areas. Improvements to the investment climate could place additional pressure on small businesses
already in the market, to improve their efficiency and some of them might be forced to exit the market.
Though further trade liberalization and trade facilitation are expected to bring long-term growth and
employment benefits, there might be risks for import-competing sectors in the short term. It i s also


                                                        46

important to highlight that an improvement in competitiveness in the private sector will have uneven
results giving existing regional disparities in Mexico.

151. Mexico faces macroeconomic risks related to a possible deterioration of the currently
favorable external environment. Debt Sustainability Analysis shows Mexico's overall resilience to
plausible shocks. According to the analysis undertaken by the IMF as part of its 2005 Article IV
Consultation, standardized stress tests, based on the historical volatility of key macroeconomic variables
for the past 10 years, indicate that the level of public debt would not increase substantially over the
medium-term if macro conditions turned out to be significantly worse than projected. However, the
analysis also notes that more extreme shocks or a combination of shocks -such as a sudden permanent
decline in oil prices, a "hard landing" in the United States, or an arbitrary shock to market confidence in
Mexican assets- would result in a rise in the public sector financing requirement, reflecting the still
relatively short average maturity of domestic debt. Aware of the potential threats to financial stability
stemming from such shocks, the GOM has dedicated significant effort over the past few years and made
substantial progress in developing the domestic government bond market, diversifying the investor base
and extending the yield curve. Additional measures to mitigate the public debt refinancing risk have been
taken over the past few months including the complete prefinancing of external debt repayment
obligations with private creditors due in 2006 and 2007, the issuing of warrants to swap dollar
denominated bonds for peso debt as well as the introduction of a programof exchange of domestic bonds
due in 2006 and 2007 for longer term domestic securities. Strengthening the pipeline of loans with
multilateral banks, including the present fast-disbursing DPL, also fits into this refinancing risk
mitigating strategy.




                                                      47

                                                                                ANNEXES

             ANNEX 1: LETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY

                                      Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                      Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

 SECRETARIA DE
   ECONOMIA                           Mexico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

Sr. Paul Wolfowitz
Presidente
Banco Mundial
Washington, D.C. 20433
Estados Unidos

EstimadoSefior Wolfowitz:

Durante 10s ljltimos aflos, el tema de Competitividad ha representado una de las
principales directrices para impulsar el crecimiento con calidad y desarrollo
econ6mico de nuestro pais, a fin de insertarse con &xito en la nueva economia
mundial. Este reconocimiento se ha visto reflejado en el Plan Nacional de
Desarrollo (PND) 2001 - 2006 al incorporar la vision de consolidar a Mexico hacia
el aiio 2005 como un pais de aka competitividad mundial, con un crecimiento
economico equitativo, incluyente y sostenido, estrechamente vinculado a la
globalizaci6n.

En este nuevo entorno, Mexico no s610 estd llamado a aprovechar las ventajas
competitivas naturales con que cuenta, como es su ubicaci6n geografica, sin0 a
construir nuevas ventajas sustentadas en la capacitacibn, la inversi6n y la
innovaci6n organizativa.

A travks de esta Carta de Polkica Sectorial son descritas las condiciones
econ6micas de Mexico, as; como las principales Sreas que han sido consideradas
como estrategicas para lograr el objetivo de elevar y fortalecer la competitividad
del pais en el mediano y largo plazo. Las areas de trabajo seleccionadas estan
relacionadas con temas de innovaci6n tecnol6gica, capacitaci6n laboral,
mejoramiento del clima de negocios, logistica, facilitaci6n comercial y energia.
Para lograr la consolidacibn de 10s temas propuestos y asegurar su continuidad en
el largo plazo, el gobierno mexicano considera fundamental obtener el apoyo
financier0 y tecnico del Banco Mundial a traves del esquema de "Prestamo
ProgramSticopara el Desarrollo de Politicas de Competitividad".


AMBIENTE MACROECON~MICO

La evolution economics reciente de Mexico ha dejado de manifiesto el estrecho
vinculo que existe entre la actividad industrial interna y el ciclo industrial
intemacional. Es por ello, que el PND considera dentro de sus objetivos el impulso
a la reactivacidn del crecimiento elevado y sostenido de la productividad, para
lograr que la economia nacional mejore su competitividad y transite hacia un
crecimiento m6s acelerado.

                                        48

                                        Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                        Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

 SECRETARIA OE
   ECONOMIA                             Mdxico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

Por lo anterior, las lheas de accidn de la presente administracibn se han enfocado
a promover la consolidaci6n de la estabilidad macroeconbmica, fundamentado en
una conducci6n responsable de la polka econdmica y financiera, asi como
desarrollar un clima de negocios que favorezca el desarrollo de proyectos
productivos y fortalecer las condiciones econ6micas del pais.

Como resultado de dichas politicas, Mexico ha logrado alcanzar las tasas de inter&
y de inflaci6n mas bajas de 10s hltimos treinta aiios, asi como el riesgo pais de la
historia; asimismo, desde finales de 2004 ha logrado apreciarse, y las reservas
internacionales netas han alcanzado maximos hist6ricos -alcanzando 10s casi
US$60,000 mdd, Todas estas condiciones, sin duda han favorecido el desarrollo
balanceado de 10s componentes de la demanda agregada.

De esta forma, el gasto de inversion privada mostr6 en 2004 un repunte
significativo de 8.5 por ciento, respecto al aio anterior, destacando la mayor
compra de maquinaria y equipo irnportado, asi como de equipo de transporte
nacional. Hacia el primer trimestre de 2005, esta variable se expandi6 a una tasa
anual de 4.4 por ciento, Io que demuestra cada vez mSs el inter& que 10s
inversionistas nacionales y extranjeros estan poniendo en nuestro pais como sede
de sus operaciones.

Por el lado de la demanda externa, la recuperacibn ha sido notable. En 2004 las
exportaciones totales se incrernentaron a una tasa anual de 11.5/~, favorecidas
por la mayor demanda estadounidense principalrnente, Io que permiti6 revertir el
estancamiento observado en 10s afios previos. Durante el primer trirnestre de
2005, las exportaciones de productos mexicanos crecieron 4.8 por ciento, respecto
a1 misrno periodo del aio anterior, debido al avance mostrado por las ventas de
petr6leo crudo al exterior, y en menor medida de productos manufactureros.

La actividad productiva mostr6 un panorama diferenciado durante el primer
semestre del presente aRo. El sector terciario evolucion6 favorablemente,
 impulsado por la estabilidad macroecondmica y un mayor desarrollo del sistema
financiero, registrando un crecimiento de 4.1 por ciento en el periodo enero -junio
 de 2005 respecto al mismo periodo del afio anterior.

 Sin embargo, la actividad industrial mostr6 un menor dinamismo respecto al afio
 pasado: alcanzando una tasa de crecimiento de tan s610 1.4 durante el primer
 semestre de 2005, comparado con el mismo periodo de 2004. AI interior de este
 sector, el componente de actividad fabril present6 un crecimiento anual real de 1.2
 por ciento, proveniente principalmente del incremento en la producci6n de
 vehiculos autornotores, maquinaria y equipo no electrico, procesamientode carnes
 y Iicteos, y carrocerias, motores, partes y accesorios para vehiculos automotores.


                                          49

                                        Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                        Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

 SECRETARIADE
   ECONOMIA                             Mkxico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

CRECIMIENTO       ECONOMICO PARA MEJORAR LA CALIDAD                 DEVIDA
Con el objetivo de lograr un crecimiento econ6mico sostenido y sustentable, el
Gobierno Federal ha intensificado las acciones de promocibn y foment0 de las
actividades econ6micas, a efecto de propiciar que las unidades productivas y de
servicios operen con crecientes est6ndares de productividad y competitividad,
preparandolas para competir con exito en 10s mercados internacionales.

En el presente aio, esta estrategia ha logrado incorporar a un mayor nljmero de
unidades productivas a las cadenas de exportaci6n, adem6s de impulsar el
fortalecirniento del mercado interno a traves de la modernizacidn de 10s sistemas
de abasto y comercializaci6n.

En todos estos esfuerzos ha sido determinante el mayor aprovechamiento de la
oferta tecnol6gica en 10s procesos productivos, el apoyo permanente a la
educacibn y      capacitaci6n laboral,     ademis de       una    mayor flexibilidad
macroeconornicaapoyada en el desarrollo de un ambiente de negocios con reglas
claras y normas similares a las de 10s paises desarrollados, asi como en el
fortalecimiento en la infraestructura fisica y energetica del pais. Cada una de estas
estrategias, asi como 10s objetivos que se buscan alcanzar a traves de su
consolidaci6ny continuidad, se detallan en el Anexo Ia esta Carta.

SOLICrl'UD DE APOYO AL BANCO MUNDIAL
A travks de la obtenci6n de 10s fondos solicitados a travks de este Prestamo, el
gobiemo mexicano pretende alcanzar 10s siguientes objetivos: apoyar 10s
lineamientos dirigidos a fortalecer la competitividad del pais, establecidos en el
programa de gobierno; asegurar la continuidad en las areas consideradas corn0
detonantes para lograr dicho objetivo, estableciendo metas especificas y
cuantificables para cada area; obtener apoyo tecnico especializado que acompaRe
la ejecuci6n de politicas; y coordinar 10s esfuetzos que est6n realizando las
distintas secretarias y agencias dentro del tema de Competitividad.

Durante 10s aios recientes, el Gobierno de Mexico ya ha logrado importantes
avances en materia de competitividad, a traves del diseRo y puesta en marcha de
programas en materia de temas de innovaci6n tecnolbgica, capacitaci6n laboral,
mejoramiento del clirna de negocios, logktica, facilitaci6n comercial y energia. Sin
embargo, se reconoce que a h es necesario avanzar y fortalecer estas acciones
para alcanzar el objetivo de hacer de Mexico una de las naciones mas competitivas
a nivel mundial, lo que le permitira incrementar su participacion en 10s mercados
internacionales con productos cada vez de mayor valor agregado, generar m6s y
mejores empleos, intensificar el us0 de nuevas tecnologia y atraer mayores flujos
de inversi6n extranjera.


                                           50

                                               Subsecretariade Industriay Cornercio

                                               Oficio No, 4 ~ ~ . 2 ~ 0 6 . ~ ~ 3 ~


                                               M&xico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006


Con base en las consideraciones anteriores, la Secretaria de Economia, a traves de
esta Subsecretaria, y en calidad de Organismo Coordinador de este proyecto,
soiicita al Banco Mundial su apoyo para la obtencion del prestarno solicitado, bajo
e! esquema de "PrtSstamo Programatica para el d~sarrolfode Politicas en
C o ~ ~ e ~ ~ ~ i ~ i ~ a d " .




                                         Atentamente,
                                       La Subsecretaria
                                                                    I' '1

                             MAR~ADEL ~rjcio          RUIZ CHAVEZ




C.C.P. Dr. AIkrEo Oftega Venzor, Coordiriizdor de la Oficifla de /aPrestdencra para la$ Politms
         Piibircas para su c ~ ~ ~ ~ i r n i ~ ~ ~ ~
                  -
C.C.P. Lie. Sergio Afejandro Garcia de Alba tepeda, Secretario ce Econoini'a -tmmofrn

                                                 51

                                      Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                      Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

 SECRETARIA DE
  ECONOMIA                            Mexico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

                                    ANEXO I

     ESTRATEGIASPARA IMPULSAR LA COMPETITIVIDAD EN MEXICO

Uno de 10s retos que Mexico enfrenta actualmente en materia econ6mica es el de
elevar su competitividad. Acelerar el crecimiento, promover el bienestar, ofrecer
oportunidades de prosperidad a regiones y sectores m6s amplios depende
crkicamente del &xito que tengamos en el fortalecimiento de nuestra capacidad
competitiva.

Fue asi como en el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2001-2006, se establecib como uno
de sus objetivos, el elevar y extender la competitividad del pais como condici6n
necesaria para alcanzar un crecimiento m6s din6mico y un desarrollo incluyente.

La competitividad se sustenta en un ambiente propicio para la inversi6n y para la
generaci6n de empleo; se nutre de un esfuerzo continuo de innovacion y de
capacitacibn; aflora en un marco de certidumbre normativa y legal, en donde la
respuesta de las autoridades, a todos 10s niveles, sea predecible y transparente,
oportuna y apegada al derecho.

La competitividad requiere de mercados intensamente competidos que conduzcan
a una mayor inversi6n en investigacibn y desarrollo, al desarrollo de habilidades y
a la reducci6n continua de costos, ademas de una mejora continua en nuestra
logistica a fin de satisfacer nuestros mercados, internos y externos, con mayor
certidumbre y menores costos.

Elevar el bienestar requiere de la instrumentaci6n de acciones en distintos
ambitos: inversi6n y ahorro, innovaci6n y capacitacibn, logistica e infraestructura,
mejora regulatoriay cornpetencia, y mejora institucional,

Es por ello que, el Gobierno Mexicano, con el apoyo y participaci6n de las distintas
entidades y dependencias de la Administraci6n Pdblica Federal ha desarrollado una
Agenda de Cornpetitividadbasada en las siguientes estrategias:

    Estimular m6s agresivamente la innovacion, la capacitacidn y la educacidn,
    fomentando esquemas modernos de capacitaci6n basados en normas de
    competencia, apoyando a empresas con alto componente tecnologico.

    Mejorar el clima de negocios, reduciendo el costo que impone la regulaci6n
    sobre quien invierte y crea empleo, sobre quien innova y asume riesgos,
    garantizando un ambiente de competencia intensa y transparente en todos 10s
    mercados;


                                        52

                                       Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                       Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

SECRETARIA DE
  ECONOMIA                              Mexico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006


   Reducir 10s COSCOS  de /ogkCica, a fin de traducir en inversi6n y en empleo las
   ventajas comparativas que nos ofrece nuestra posici6n geografica y la red de
   tratados comerciales que le abre 10s principales rnercados globales al
   empresario mexicano;

   Ampliar la oferta energetics, transparentando las reglas de acceso e
   interconexion, fortaleciendo a la autoridad regulatoria a fin de ofrecer
   transparencia y garantias a todos 10s participantes en el mercado, desarrollando
   fuentes alternas de combustibles;

   Fomentar la profundizacidn finandera, reduciendo 10s              requerimientos
   financieros del sector publico a fin de abrir espacio al sector privado en el
   mercado crediticio, impulsando de manera ordenada la red de ahorro y credit0
   popular, apoyando la utilizaci6n de medios electr6nicos de pago, prornoviendo
   una competencia m6s intensa y mejorando la regulaci6n de 10s intermediarios;
   Y,

La Administraci6n Federal ha centrad0 sus esfuerzos en cada una de estas lineas,
disefiando, instrumentando y obteniendo resultados con acciones especificas y
definiendo nuevas pautas para que 10s resultados alcanzados se traduzcan en un
crecimiento de la productividad sostenido, asociado a una mejora en 10s niveles de
vida de todos 10s grupos sociales.

De 10s temas anteriores, el avance alcanzado en la profundizaci6n financiera ha
superado las expectativas de la presente administracion al alcanzar un nivel de
ahorro financiero superior al 50 por ciento del PIB. Aun cuando estamos lejos de
nuestros principales socios en el area, el entorno financiero presente y prospectivo
de mediano plazo permite anticipar el rnantenimiento de una tendencia favorable.

En resurnen, para enfrentar 10s retos del entorno mundial actual adernas de
mantener una s6lida estabilidad macroecon6mica, es importante construir y
rnantener una permanente eficiencia rnicroecon6mica que resulte en una justa
competencia, mejor calidad en bienes y servicios, desarrollo de 10s recursos
productivos y menores costos para hacer negocios en el pais. De hecho, el objetivo
es comprender a cabalidad que la globalizaci6n es una realidad, la productividad
una obligaci6n y la competitividad un reto.

Hay que considerar que, en las cinco lineas estratkgicas aduales, las dependencias
y entidades del Gobierno Mexican0 desarrollan acciones especificas con propuestas
particulares y resultados significativos. Sin embargo, para prop6sitos relacionados


                                          53

                                        Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                        Oficio No. 400.2006.0033


 SECRETARIA DE
   ECONOMIA                             Mkxico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

con el programa con el Banco Mundial, nos enfocaremos solarnente en cuatro de
ellos, como se describe a continuacibn.


INNOVACION, CAPACITACIONY EDUCACION

La innovacion, la capacidad de convertir esas innovaciones en capital productivo, la
formacion de habilidades al interior de la empresa y la inversion en capital
humano, constituyen elementos imprescindibles para alcanzar un incremento
acelerado y sostenido en la productividad.

El rezago mexicano en investigacibn y desarrollo, en 10s sistemas de capacitacion y
educacion para el trabajo se refleja en diversas esferas:
    Insuficientes niveles de inversi6n en investigaci6n y desarrollo en production en
    ciencia y tecnologia y formacion de recursos hurnanos de alto nivel cientifico y
    tecnol6gico.
    Bajos niveles educativos de 10s trabajadores que impiden el aprovechamiento
    6ptimo de la capacitacih recibida.
    Falta de flexibilidad y pertinencia de 10s programas de capacitacion para las
    necesidadescambiantes del rnercado laboral.
    Poca participacion de las instituciones privadas en el diseFio e imparticion de la
    capacitacion,
    Incompatibilidad entre 10s servicios de capacitacibn frente a 10s requerimientos
    de la poblaciony el aparato productivo.

El esfuerzo emprendido al interior del gobierno para disrninuir, abatir y revertir 10s
rezagos en esta materia son resultado del desarrollo de programas de apoyo al
empleo de la Secretaria del Trabajo y Prevision Social; del otorgarniento de becas
de CONACYT; del otorgamiento de estimulos para el desarrollo cientifico y
tecnologico (con la participacion de Nafin, Economia y CONACYT); la colocacion de
recursos para proyedos de investigacion y desarrollo mediante 10s Fondos Mixtos y
Sectoriales; el apoyo a ernpresas y centros de investigacion para transformar sus
descubrimientos en casos concretos con el Programa de Alto Valor Agregado en
Negocioscon Conocirniento y Empresarios (AVANCE), entre otros resultados.

El enfoque ha sido dual, por un lado incorporando empresas al circuit0 de la
innovacion y, por el otro, creando el capital humano a partir de la capacitacion.

 La capacitacion, a su vez, comprende la asociacion de diversos aspectos que
 incluyen: la educacibn a 10s adultos para completar estudios basicos (primaria y
 secundaria); el desarrollo de capacidades para que la gente sin empleo est6 en


                                           54

                                        Subsecretariade Industria y Comercio

                                        Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

 SECRETARIA DE
   ECONOMIA                             Mexico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

posibilidad de insertarse en el mercado laboral con mejores argumentos de trabajo
y hasta el mejoramiento de las habilidades laborales en su lugar de trabajo.

Es conveniente mencionar que la integracibn de la educacihn, la capacitaci6n y la
innovacion fue en buena medida provocada por la nueva ley de ciencia y
tecnologia del 2002.     El gran aporte de ese paso decisivo para estimular la
innovacih fue que lograba, por una parte darle personalidad propia y no
sectorizada al instituto encargado de disefiar las politicas de ciencia y tecnologia
(CONACYT), y por la otra, articular esfuerzos con diversos sectores de la sociedad
a efecto de lograr involucrarlos en el proceso de desarrollo tecnologico.

El car6cter pionero de esta iniciativa de impulso a la investigaci6n y el desarrollo es
reciente y ello hace que no esten a h bien cimentadas. Estos incipientes pero
firmes resultados nos exigen buscar esquemas de blindaje que permitan
trascender m6s a116 de la presente gesti6n gubernamental.

En este sentido, continuaremos nuestro esfuerzo con el Programa apoyado por el
Banco Mundial mediante las siguientes acciones claves:

        Promover la innovaci6n tecnolbgica impulsando programas de innovacion
        tecnolbgica para promover acciones con alto valor agregado a travds de:

        a) Creaci6n del Sistema Nacional de Incubaci6n de Empresas (SNIE) Io que
        permitira: tener la seguridad de contar con modelos reconocidos por la
        Secretaria de Economia y exitosos; integrar en un sistema a todos las
        incubadoras tradicionales, de tecnologia intermedia y de aka tecnologia; y
        establecer una red nacional de comunicaci6n que permitiri gestionar el
        conocimiento.    Las    incubadoras    podran     interactuar,    intercambiar
        experiencias, establecer mejorar pr6cticas y fortalecer el esquema de
        colaboraci6n.

        b) Creaci6n del Programa de Aceleraci6n permitiri fortalecer a las empresas
        exitosas mexicanas en mercados globales y de esta manera posicionar a
        Mexico como un pais creadora de tecnologia.

        c) Lanzamiento del Portal del Sistema Nacional de Incubadoras (SNIE) en
       versiones espaiiol e inglks (www.siem.aob.mx/snie)           que facilitar6 la
        interacci6n de 10s directivos de incubadoras de diferentes modelos
        reconocidos por la Secretaria de Economia, emprendedores y/o instituciones
        que desean crear una nueva incubadoras de negocios.


                                           55

                                      Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                      Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

SECRETARIADE
 ECONOMIA                              Mexico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

     c) Operaci6n del Programa AVANCE, en particular Ultima Milla y
     Emprendedures (fondos de inversion) que mejorard aprovechamiento y
     explotacion de 10s descubrimientos cientificos y desarrollos tecnol6gicos
     realizados en el pais, a traves de:

             incorporar investigadores, cientificos y tecn6logos especialistas en el
             ambit0 empresarial;
             la creacibn de nuevos negocios de alto valor agregado, capaces de
             generar una ventaja competitiva sostenible, a traves de la innovacibn,
             la investigacion y el desarrollo tecnol6gic0,
             ofrecer inversi6n complementaria a la realizada por inversionistas
             estrategicos en empresas ya establecidas, que presenten proyectos
             de inversi6n para la creaci6n de nuevas lineas de negocios de alto
             valor agregado a partir de desarrollos cientificos y tecnol6gicos

  0   Mejorar la capacitaci6n y 10s niveles de educaci6n de la fuerza laboral
      mejorando la calidad de la informaci6n en la capacitaci6n y 10s niveles de
     educaci6n de la fuerza laboral mediante:

     a) Mejorar la calidad del Programa de Apoyo a la Capacitaci6n (PAC). Se
     procedera a la contratacihn de un estudio de evaluaci6n de impacto de la
     primera fase del PAC 2002-2004, con el prop6sito de estimar el impacto
     cuantitativo del programa sobre la productividad laboral, competitividad y
     desempefio de las empresas apoyadas por al menos dos afios en el period0
     referido.

     Asimismo, se analizaran datos b6sicos de las empresas y trabajadores
      beneficiados en 10s ljltimos tres afios, en 10s siguientes rubros: tamafio, tip0
      de actividad, afios en que particip6 la empresa, tip0 de capacitacibn ofrecida
     y categoria de 10s trabajadores capacitados. Lo anterior, con la finalidad de
      construir indicadores intermedios y de resultado que permitan captar 10s
      avances en productividad, competitividad y desempeiio de las empresas y
      en las condiciones de empleo de 10s trabajadores que han sido atendidos.

      Con ello se pretende mejorar la operaci6n del PAC y la prestaci6n de este
      servicio, Io que permitira optimizar 10s recursos con que se disponen para
      atender a     la poblaci6n objetivo, integrada por 10s empleadores y
      trabajadores en activo de las MIPyMESdel pais.

      b) Entregar 200,000 certificados de secundaria durante 2005 a la poblaci6n
      no matriculada de 15 a 34 afios Io que permitira que un mayor nOmero de
     jovenes cuenten con las competencias educativas basicas para continuar su


                                          56

                                           Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                           Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

 SECRETARIADE
   ECONOMIA                                Mkxico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

        educaci6n y para que aprovechen m6s eficazmente la capacitaci6n que
        reciban, lo que redundar6 en lograr mayores niveles de competitividad en el
        pais.


CLIMA DE NEGOCIOS

El entorno de negocios es determinante para modelar la conducta de las empresas
e impulsarlas hacia estrategias agresivasde inversi6ne innovaci6n.

Para lograr lo anterior, se requiere un ambiente de negociostransparente, con una
normatividad Clara y f6cil de cumplir, una competencia intensa, con reglas precisas
a fin de estimular la inversi6n y alentar la innovaci6n. Mejorar la capacidad del
gobierno para producir buena regulaci6n es una condicion necesaria para mejorar
la competitividad.

Durante esta Administraci6n se han desarrollado acciones para frenar la tendencia
a incrementar el nljmero de trdmites y regulaciones (como la Moratoria Regulatoria
que concluye en noviembre de 2006); para mejorar 10s tramites que tienen mayor
incidencia en la operaci6n de las empresas y la ciudadania (propuestos por el
sector privado); para facilitar la apertura rapida de empresas; para intensificar la
competencia en 10s mercados (modificaciones a la Ley Federal de Competencia);
para reforzar la politica comercial y sectorial (con programas de promotion
sectorial); para modernizar 10s registros pljblicos de la propiedad y de comercio; y
otras.

No obstante lo anterior, aun quedan algunos retos y obst6culos por enfrentar:
    La percepci6n de 10s empresarios sobre la calidad en el procesamiento y la
    resoluci6nde trdmites y gestiones especificas no ha variado.'
    Diversos factores que afectan la competencia econ6mica: la percepci6n de
    rivalidad entre las politicas regulatorias y de competencia, la excesiva
    litigiosidad (juicios de amparo); la dificultad para cobrar las multas; las
    limitaciones legales y la carencia de facultades para prevenir o sancionar el
    abuso de poder de mercado, para realizar visitas domiciliarias y para realizar
    programasde amnistia e indulgencia.

Con el objetivo de contrarrestar estas dificultades, fortalecer las ventajas y elevar
la calidad del marco juridic0 y normativo que promueva la inversi6n y el desarrollo
de \as actividades productivas de las empresas el Programa apoyado por el Banco
Mundialsoporta las siguientes acciones claves:

' Ver:CEESP. Encuestasobre gobemabilidady desarrolloempresarial ZOO5 (sepl. 2005)



                                              57

                                      Subsecretariade Industria y Comercio

                                       Oficio No. 400.2006.0033


SECRETARIA DE
 ECONOMIA                              M6xico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006


     Facilitar la entrada de nuevas empresas mediante la implementacih del
     SARE (Sistema de Apertura Rapida de Empresas) en 85 municipios, lo que
     implica que:

         1.Se inicien operacionesen 72 horas, lo que permite generar
             recursosy recuperarla inversion inicialen menortiempo,
         2. Se reduce el tiempo en que la infraestructura instalada para el
             desarrollo de un negocio esta ociosa, por Io que la misma genera
             mayores recursos a Io largo de su vida GtiI,
         3. Se reducen el nlimero de visitas que se tienen que realizar a diversas
             oficinas gubernamentales, Io que disminuye 10s costos en tiempo y
             en traslado,
         4. Se reduce el nQmerode trimites a realizar, Io que implica disminuir
             10s costos de cumplimiento con varios trimites, asi como perdida de
             tiempo para cumplir con 10s mismos,
         5, Se ahorran costos administrativos al gobierno en su conjunto, al
             establecer un m6dulo bnico para la recepci6n y resolucion de 10s
             tramites requeridos para la apertura de empresas,
         6. Se forrnalizan 10s cobros municipales al realizar las adecuaciones
             normativas necesarias para dar sustento juridic0 al SARE, Io que a su
             vez se traduce en certidumbre juridica a 10s particulares (no hay
             cobros discrecionaleso cuotas "voluntarias"). Asimismo, al formalizar
             10s cobros municipales se ofrece certeza presupuestal a las
             autoridades municipales y se fortalecen las haciendas municipales,
          7. Se reducen 10s incentivos para establecerse en el mercado informal al
             facilitar la apertura de negocios. Incluso, se fomenta la incorporaci6n
             a la formalidad de aquellos que ya estan establecidos en el mercado
             informal y
          8. Se reduce la corrupcibn, al influir en la disminucibn del nljmero de
             negocios establecidos en la informalidad, y en consecuencia, 10s
             pagos indebidos que se realizan por operar en esa situaci6n. Tambien
             se otorga mayor solidez a las finanzas municipales al expandir el
             universo de negociosformales que pagan impuestos.

      Reducir 10s costos de transaccidn para el sector privado y 10s ciudadanos
      mediante la revisibn de 355 Manifestaciones de Impado Regulatorio (MIRs)
      en el afio 2005 a fin de mejorar el analisis costo beneficio de la regulaci6n,
      y que permitiri:

      1.     Contribuir al correct0 diseiio de la regulacih evitando que: i) se
             generen obsticulos innecesarios para las actividades empresariales,


                                          58

                                        Subsecretariade Industria y Comercio

                                        Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

 SECRETARIA DE
   ECONOMlA                             Mkxico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

              ii)se eleven 10s preciosde 10sbienesy servicios, iii)se desaliente a la
              inversion productiva, iv) se generen espacios para la corruption y, v)
              se reduzca la calidad de 10s servicios,
       2.     Elevar la calidad del sistema juridico en su conjunto y de 10s
              instrumentosjuridicos en particular, con el proposito de incrementar
              sus beneficios, reducir sus costos y aumentar su eficiencia y
       3.     Crear incentivos para la innovaci6n y competitividad empresarial al
              eliminar y simplificar tramites, reducir costos y promover la iniciativa
              de 10s particulares.
       4.     Promover la transparencia y la consulta publica al contar con 10s
              documentos disponibles en Internet, para que la regulacion: i) sea
              simple, Clara y pr6ctica; ii) minimice distorsiones en 10s mercados; iii)
              sea congruente con el marc0 juridico; iv) produzca beneficios
              superiores a 10s costos; y v) se construya de manera conjunta con 10s
              sectores productivos.

       Fortalecer la politica de competencia economics y su aplicacion
       promoviendo la homogeneidad de criterios de competencia dentro de la
       Administracibn Publica mediante el establecimiento de Acuerdos de
       Cooperacibn entre la CFC y 15 estados y con Cofemer, CRE y Profeco, Io
       que permitira una mayor coordinacion y eficiencia entre la Comision,
       6rganos reguladores y gobiernos estatales, impulsando asi la efectividad en
        la prevencion, deteccion y sancion de practicas monopolicas.

COSTOS DE LOGISTICA

Una de las ventajas competitivas de Mexico est6 relacionada con su posicion
geografica, lo que facilita el transporte de mercancias.        Explotar esta ventaja
requiere que las fronteras mexicanas se conviertan en puertos eficientes de
entrada y salida de bienes, servicios, personas y empresas. Requiere tambikn la
simplificacion y armonizacion de 10s procedimientos de comercio internacional y de
un adecuado nivel de infraestructura que facilite el transporte de mercancias una
vez tramitado el despacho aduanal.

La creciente din6mica en la movilizacion de mercancias relacionadas con el
comercio exterior hizo necesario el desarrollo y modernizacion de una
infraestructura maritimo-portuaria acorde con ese crecimiento, para consolidar la
integration de 10s puertos mexicanos en las principales rutas logisticas
internacionales, ofreciendo servicios de clase mundial.

Lo anterior dio como resultado incrementos significativos en la capacidad instalada
de la infraestructura, en la modernizacion del equipo portuario, en las


                                            59

                                          Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                          Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

  SECRETARIA DE
    ECONOUIA                              Mexico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

 productividades para el rnanejo de contenedores superiores al estandar
 internacional, en la reduccion de 10s tiempos de estadia, entre otros.

 A pesar de Io anterior, existen a h retos por superar, corn0 son el rnejorar la
 coordinacibn entre las distintas autoridades de 10s puertos, lograr la revision bnica,
 tener un sisterna electrdnico de intercarnbio de inforrnaci6n entre 10s distintos
 actores portuarios, y continuar con el proceso de rnodernizacion y arnpliacion de la
 infraestructura y del equipamiento marltimo-portuario.

 En cuestion de tramites de cornercio exterior, 10s esquernas para cubrir
 procedimientos      aduanales    eran     muy    complejos:    mQltiples    formatos,
 discrecionalidad de la autoridad aduanal para clasificaci6n tarifaria, falta de
 armonizaci6n de ordenarnientosjuridicos, entre otros.

 En materia de infraestructura, hace apenas cinco afios cont6bamos con una red
 carretera cuyo eje de trazo era la ciudad de Mexico, lo cual irnplicaba altos costos
 en transporte con su consecuente perdida en competitividad.

 Adicionalmente, la restriccibn presupuestal repercutia en el desernpeRo de las
 redes logisticas. Como respuesta, se desarrollaron esquemas rnuy creativos de

Lalianzas pliblico-privadas para irnpulsar de rnanera integral 10s sisternas de
 transporte y comunicaciones.

 Las acciones antes mencionadas se integran a otras politicas que tuvieron una
 incidencia directa y positiva en la reduccion de costos de logistica en el afio 2005:
     Inversion total en infraestructura (pliblica mas privada) en sus niveles rnaxirnos
     historicos, por segundo afio consecutivo, del orden de 10s 340 mil millones de
     pesos.
     Modernizacibn de rn6s del 75% de 10s corredores carreteros, con la suscripcibn
     del Acuerdo de Concertacion para el Desarrollo de Corredores Multimodales
     (con la participation de 10s diferentes actores que participan en las cadenas
     loglsticas de transporte y distribuci6n de mercancias).
     Estirnulos fiscales a pequefios transportistas para la eliminacidn de unidades
     obsoletas (chatarrizacion) con rnontos desde el 15% del valor del vehiculo
     nuevo.
     Niveles rkord en la transportacih de carga por via ferroviaria (rn6s de 90
     millones de toneladas) y abrea (m6s de 492 mil toneladas).
     Incremento en la cobertura de telecomunicaciones (las lineas fijas de telkfonos
     crecieron en un 50 por ciento, la densidad en telefonia rnbvil se triplicaron, y
     una acelerada expansion de 10s usuarios de Internet que alcanzan 10s 16
     millones).


                                            60

                                         Subsecretariade Industria y Comercio

                                         Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

 SECRETARIA OE
   ECONOMIA                              Mexico, D.F,, 27 de enero de 2006

    Modernizacibn de la infraestructura fkica en las aduanas del pais y el cornbate
    a la introduccidn ilegal de mercancias, entre otros.

El carnino para alcanzar niveles de competitividad equiparables a la de varios
pakes lideres en materia de logktica es todavia arduo, Por ello, Mexico debe
esforzarse mas activarnente en el desarrollo y aprovecharniento de una
infraestrudura de transporte de primer nivel que perrnita maxirnizar 10s beneficios
de la apertura, una agilizaci6n en el despacho aduanal, rnodernizacih de la
infraestructura portuaria y un mejor entorno regulatorio.

Paralelamente, es necesario alertar a las empresas mexicanas sobre la relaci6n que
existe entre la cornpetitividad de sus productos y/o servicios y sus procesos
logisticos clave (servicio al cliente, transporte, gestibn de inventarios y
procesamiento de pedidos) y de soporte (almacenamiento, rnanejo de mercancias,
compras y aprovisionamiento, planificacidn del producto, envase, ernpaque y
ernbalaje y gesti6n de la informacidn).

En otras palabras, dentro de una creciente competencia global donde un
rnovimiento relativamente pequeAo en costos puede definir la permanencia en el
mercado de una empresa, la logktica se convierte en un eslab6n clave en la
cadena de competitividad del pais.

Es necesario garantizar acciones estrategicas en materia de logktica que den
continuidad y sobrepasen 10s resultados alcanzados. Para ello, el Programa
apoyado por el Banco Mundial soporta las siguientes acciones claves:

        Eficientar procedimientos comerciales, reducir costos de comercio exterior y
       fortalecer las practicas logisticas a traves de:

        a) La armonizacion de aranceles a traves de la reduccion de 3 y 10 puntos
       al 76% de la tarifa de importaci6n (TIGIE), equivalente a 9,177 fracciones
       arancelarias, en las que se encuentran cornprendidas una gran diversidad de
        insurnos, arthlos, maquinaria y equipo indispensables para la vida
        produdiva de las empresas nacionales.

        Esta reduccidn generalizada ha beneficiado a aproximadarnente 130,000
       ernpresas nacionales dedicadas al comercio exterior, ya que las ventajas de
        la rnisma se veran reflejadas en sus operaciones de importacidn, debido a
        que les ha impactado favorablemente en sus costos de producckh, en por lo
        menos un 3 por ciento, El ahorro general estimado para las empresas, por
        este concepto, ser6 de US$ 446.4 rnillones de d6lares.


                                           61

                                     Subsecretariade Industria y Comercio

                                     Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

SECRETARIA DE
 ECONOMIA                            Mexico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

     Asimismo, este programa permiti6 reducir la dispersi6n arancelaria de 14
     niveles arancelarios que existian, a hicarnente 8 niveles de aranceles de
     Naci6n Mas Favorecida.

     b)      Sirnplificacion de requisitos a la importacion de insumos para
     empresas exportadoras (beneficiando a 6,500             empresas PlTEX     y
     Maquiladoras, cuyos montos de exportaci6n equivalen al 90% del total del
     sector manufacturero), Io que permiti6 fortalecer la competitividad de
     Mkxico principalmente en sectores como el Automotriz y Electrhico, y con
     ello incentivando la atracci6n de nuevas inversiones;

     c) 'Operaci6n paperless" en el SICEX de reportes de operaciones, solicitudes
     de permisos de importaci6n, etc., incluyendo pilotos dentro del Sistema de
     nuevos instrumentos de la SE en paperless (medios electr6nicos) como
     Certificados de Origen, Cupos, etc.

     Como parte de esta estrategia se ha llevado a cab0 una revisi6n de 10s
     instrumentos de regulaci6n no arancelarias, lo que ha permitido la
     eliminacion y/o simplificaci6n de tr6mites. El beneficio para las empresas de
     comercio exterior ha sido la reducci6n en tiempos y costos en sus tramites

    e de comercio exterior, adem6s de fortalecer la transparencia en el
      otorgamiento y operacion de 10s instrumentos de comercio exterior.

      Uno de 10s resultados de esta estrategia ha sido la eliminaci6n de 10s
      derechos que las empresas debian pagar por la realizacibn de 10s tramites
      de permisos de importacion.;

      d) Implantaci6n del Prograrna de Innovaci6n de Pricticas Logisticas a 92
      empresas, que tiene como objetivo proporcionar herramientas para que las
      ernpresas identifiquen su costo logktico total y sus procesos logkticos
      liberandose de costos ocultos, reduciendo costos totales y mejorando, en
      consecuencia, su desempeiio logktico. Los indicadores que se trabajan en
      el programa son: tiempo de ciclo, optimizaci6n de inventarios, y nivel de
      servicio.

      Agilizar   el    despacho  aduanero    mediante     el  establecimiento   de
      interconectividad de Secretarias involucradas en el despacho aduanero a
      travtis de:

      a) La incorporaci6n de informaci6n Pitex, Maquila y PROSEC que permite
      contar con autorizaciones en linea en tiempo real a1 momento del despacho


                                         62

                                        Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                        Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

SECRETARIADE
  ECONOMIA                              Mkxico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

       de mercancias en las aduanas, sin necesidad de presentar la autorizacih
       por escrito.

       b) La incorporacion de informaci6n de administracibn de cupos que
       permitir6 contar con las autorizaciones expedidas en linea en tiempo real,
       durante el proceso del despacho aduanero, sin necesidad de que se
       presente el documento respectivo.

       Mejorar la calidad de 10s servicios portuarios a travis de:

       a) Un acuerdo interinstitucional que permita la salida de la PFP y la PGR de
       10s puertos, para agilizar la salida de contenedores de 10s recintos
       portuarios, reduciendo asi el nlimero de revisiones y 10s tiempos de estadia,
       ademis de minimizar 10s daiios ocasionados a la mercancia en dichas
       revisiones.

       b) Instalacidn de rayos gamma en 10s principales puertos comerciales para
       disminuir la apertura de 10s contenedores y el nlimero de revisiones,
       contribuyendo a hacer m6s expedita su salida.

       c) Revisiones coordinadas entre dependencias (AGA, SEMARNAT, Agentes
       Aduanales, etc.) que permitirh disminuir 10s costos de operaci6n y de
       logistica en la cadena de comercializacih de mercancias.

       d) Modernizacidn de las instalaciones aduanales (edificios, circuit0 cerrado
       de video, bhsculas dinimicas, entre otras) para mejorar la logktica
       comercial, agilizar el flujo de mercancias de importaci6n y exportacibn y
       disminuir 10s costos de su operacibn.

       e) Elaboracion del "Estudio para el incremento de la eficiencia y
       productividad en el puerto de Veracruz" que perrnitir6 analizar 10s flujos que
       sigue la carga en el puerto para identificar la problem6tica que incide en la
       productividad de las distintas empresas y autoridades del mismo, y proponer
       las medidas necesarias para incrementar su eficiencia y coordinacih
       operativa.

ENERGIA

La industria energktica es un importante proveedor de insumos, como la
electricidad y 10s cornbustibles, que inciden directamente sobre la competitividad
de las actividades productivas. Por lo tanto, es vital contar con un sector
energetic0 modern0 y eficiente, que garantice el abasto oportuno y suficiente, con


                                           63

                                        Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio

                                        Oficio No. 400.2006.0033

 SECRETARIA DE
   ECONOMIA                             Mexico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

altos estandares de calidad y a precios competitivos, que apoye sostenidamente el
desarrollo del resto de la industria nacional

La reducci6n de costos reales en la provisi6n de energeticos y la mejora en el
servicio constituye un elemento fundamental para ofrecer a la empresa mexicana
una posibilidadde competir en 10s mercados, nacionales e internacionales.

Buscamos alinear las estructuras de 10s mercados de energia a fin de promover la
inversi6n y la oferta asi como garantizar la certidumbre y suficiencia en la
disponibilidad de la oferta energetica.

Nuestros esfuerzosen este sentido se traducen en:
   La ampliaci6n de la generaci6n de energia electrica gracias a la operaci6n de 26
   plantas electricas durante esta Administraci6n;
   La incorporaci6nde casi 14 mil megawatts a la capacidad instalada del Sistema
   Electric0 Nacional en cinco afios, lo que representa un incremento del 34 por
   ciento respecto a la capacidad del afio 2000.
   La puesta en marcha de las obras de Chicoasen y El Cajdn y La Parota, mismas
   que asegurar6n una ampliacibn del 26.5 por ciento en la capacidad de
   generaci6n de electricidad por esta via en el pais respecto a la existente en el
    2002.
    La construcci6n y puesta en operaci6n de 16 centrales generadoras de ciclo
   combinado en 10s primeros cinco afios de esta Administracibn, operadas por
    ProductoresIndependientes de Energia, con una capacidad total de 7,767 MW,
    pasando la participaci6n privada en generaci6n de electricidad de 484 MW en el
    aiio 2000 a 8,250 MW en 2005.
    Un record historic0 en la producci6n de petr6leo en 2004 (3.38 millones de
    barriles diarios) y el mayor superavit de la balanza comercial en el period0
    enero a octubre de 2005 (mas de 18 mil millones de dblares),

Nuestro compromiso es redoblar esfuerzos para asegurar que nuestro pais siga
contando con la capacidad energktica que se requiere. Para ello, el Programa
apoyado por el Banco Mundial soporta las siguientes acciones claves:

    b  Fortalecery modernizar el sector energetic0 incrementando la transparencia
       y el desempeho del sector hidrocarburos, impulsando el desempefio del
       sector GLP y aumentando la seguridad de oferta en el sector electricidad
       mediante:

       a) Formalizaci6n (publicacibn en el DOF) del Acuerdo que establece el
       Programa de Indicadores de Evaluacibn del Desempefio en PEMEX y la
       preparaci6n del esquema Regulatorio para las operaciones del sector de 10s


                                           64

                                       Subsecretariade Industria y Comercio

                                       Oficio No. 400.2006.0033


SECRETARIA DE
  ECONOMIA                             Mixico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

      hidrocarburos Io que permitird evaluar y mejorar el desernpefio operativo de
      Petr6leos Mexicanos, a travks de mecanismos de autorregulaci6n, cuya
      vigilancia estar6 a cargo de la Secretaria de Energia.

      b) El fortalecimiento de la regulaci6n relacionada a la operaci6n del sector
      de hidrocarburos:
                 Nuevo reglamento para Gas Licuado de Petr6leo que d6 mayor
                 seguridad y calidad de servicio al usuario, seguridad juridica y
                 certidumbre a la inversi6n y modernizacibn del sector,
                 Acuerdo por el que se establece la regulacih de las Ventas de
                 Primera Mano de Productos Petroliferos.
                 Acuerdo por el que se establecen 10s tkrminos y condiciones
                 contractuales    de  la  entrega-recepci6n de       petroliferos o
                 petroquimicos bisicos, obtenidos como subproductos en la
                 elaboracidn de petroquimicos no b6sicos.

   0   Implementaci6n de medidas de transparencia e instrumentos regulatorios
       mediante la creaci6n del grupo de trabajo de contabilidad regulatoria
       (SENER, CFE, Luz y Fuerza y CRE) para aprobar y mejorar la transparencia
       en indicadores asociados con calidad y administracibn del sector elkctrico y
       realizacion de un reporte de seguimiento para presentarse a SENER
       incluyendo:

       a) Indicadores de referencia para la calidad y administracidn de la energia
           (CRE) Io que permitir6, dentro del marco del Acuerdo de Cofemer del 11
           de agosto de 2005, implementar medidas de transparencia y rendici6n
           de cuentas de las empresas paraestatales (subsidiarias y filiales).

       Lo anterior sin menoscabo de seguir impulsando las reformas legales para
       promover la inversi6n privada en el sector; fomentar esquemas de precios
       que incentiven la competitividad del sector; la diversificacihn de fuentes de
       suministro de gas natural y reforzar 10s esquemas de regulaci6n en el
       sector,

Si bien, hemos presentado algunos avances en 6mbitos estrategicos para la
competitividad, es nuestro compromiso consolidar y darle continuidad a las
acciones que han demostrado resultados importantes en el corto plazo en el
fortalecirniento de la competitividad.

El gobierno de Mexico tiene una Agenda de Competitividad Nacional conformada
con propuestas especlficas de las entidades y dependencias de la Administracidn


                                          65

                                       Subsecretariade Industria y Comercio

                                       Oficio No, 400.2006.0033

SECRETARIA DE
   ECONOMIA                            Mkxico, D.F., 27 de enero de 2006

Pliblica Federal y cuyas acciones claves son apoyadas por el propuesto Prkstamo
Program6tico para el Desarrollo de Politicasen Competitividad.

Seguiremos nuestro trabajo al interior del Gobierno Federal, y con el apoyo de
distintos adores y sectores de la sociedad, continuaremos impulsando acciones
que incidan en la competitividad




                                          66

                 TRANSLATION-LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY

                                             Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                             (Under-Secretariat of Industry and
                                             Commerce)

SECRETARIA DE
  ECONOMR                                    Official Letter No. 400.2006.003

                                             Mexico City, January 27th,2006

Mr.PaulWolfowitz
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
UnitedStates

Dear Mr.Wolfowitz:

During the last years, the issue of Competitiveness has represented one of the main guidelines to
foster growth with quality and economic development in our country, in order to successfully
enter the new world economy. This recognition has been reflected in the National Development
Plan (PND) 2001-2006, which incorporates the vision of strengthening Mexico towards the year
2005 as a country of high world competitiveness, with equitable, inclusive, and sustained
economic growth closely linked to globalization.

Inthis new environment, Mexico is not only calling for the better use of the natural competitive
advantages it has, like geographical location, but also building new sustained advantages in
training, investment and organizational innovation.

The Mexican economic conditions are described through this Sector Policy Letter, as well as the
main areas that have been considered as strategic to attain the goal of increasing and
 strengthening the competitiveness of the country in the medium and long term. The working
 areas selected are related to technological innovation, labor training, investment climate
 improvements, logistics, trade facilitation, and energy. To achieve the strengthening of the
proposed subjects and ensure their continuity in the long term, the Mexican government
 considers it fundamental to obtain the financial and technical support of the World Bank through
 the "Programmatic Competitiveness Development Policy Loan."

 MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT

 The recent economic evolution of Mexico has demonstrated the close link that exists between
 internal industrial activity and the international industrial cycle. For that reason, the PND
 considers among its objectives the driving of the reactivation of high and sustained productivity
 growth, in order to make the national economy improve its competitiveness and move toward
 more accelerated growth.




                                                 67

                                               Subsecretariade Industriay Comercio
                                               (Under-Secretariatof Industryand
                                               Commerce)

SECRETARIA DE
 ECONOMIA                                      Official Letter No. 400.2006.003

                                               Mexico City, January 27,2006

For the above, the lines of action of the current administration have focused on promoting the
strengthening of macroeconomic stability, based on responsible economic and financial policy
management, such as developing a business climate that favors the development of productive
projects and strengthens the economic conditions of the country.

As a result of saidpolicies, Mexico has achieved the lowest interest and inflation rates of the last
thirty years, as well as the lowest country risk of its history; similarly, since the end of 2004 there
has been an appreciation, and net international reserves have reached historic highs-reaching
almost US$60 billion. All of these conditions, without doubt, have favored the balanced
development of the components of the aggregatedemand.

Inthis way, private investment spending showed a meaningful recovery in 2004 of 8.5 percent
with respect to the previous year, highlighting large purchases of imported machinery and
equipment, as well as national transportation equipment. Toward the first quarter of 2005, this
variable increased at an annual rate of 4.4 percent, which demonstrates the increasing interest that
national and international investors are showing in our country as headquarters for their
operations.

Related to external demand, the recovery has been notable. In 2004, total exports increased at an
annual rate of 11.5 percent, thanks mainly to growing demand from the United States, which
helped reverse the stagnation seen in previous years. Duringthe first quarter of 2005, exports of
Mexican products grew 4.8 percent with respect to the same period of the previous year, due to
the advance shown by crude oil sales abroad, and to a lesser extent to manufacturingproducts.

The productive activity showed a different panorama during the first semester of the current year.
The tertiary sector evolved favorably, driven by macroeconomic stability and greater
development of the financial system, registering growth of 4.1 percent in the period January -
June 2005 with respect to the same period of the previous year.

 Nevertheless, industrial activity showed less dynamism with respect to the past year: reaching a
 growth rate of only 1.4 percent duringthe first semester of 2005, compared with the same period
 of 2004. Within this sector, the component o f manufacturing activity showed an real annual
 growth rate of 1.2 percent, coming mainly from the increase in the production of automotive
 vehicles; non-electric equipment and machinery; food processing and dairy; and bodyworks,
 engines, partsand automotive vehicle accessories.




                                                  68

                                               Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                               (Under-Secretariatof Industry and
                                               Commerce)

SECRETARIA DE
  ECONOMlA                                     Official Letter No. 400.2006.003

                                               Mexico City, January 27,2006

ECONOMIC GROWTHTO IMPROVETHE QUALITY OF LIFE

In order to attain sustained and sustainable economic growth, the Federal Government has
intensified actions to promote and encourage economic activities, so that the productive and
service units operate with growing productivity standards and competitiveness, preparing them to
successfully compete ininternational markets.

Inthe current year, this strategy has achieved the incorporation of a bigger number of productive
units into export chains, in addition to fostering the strengtheningof the internal market through
the modernizationof supply and commercialization systems.

To support these efforts, the following have been important: greater exploitation of the
technological supply in the productive processes; permanent support to the education and labor
training; greater macroeconomic flexibility supported by the development of a business
environment with clear rules and norms similar to those in developed countries; and the
strengthening of the physical and energy infrastructure of the country. Each one of these
strategies, as well as the goals to be reached through their strengthening and continuance, are
detailed in Annex Iof this Letter.

REQUESTFOR SUPPORT FROMTHE WORLD BANK

B y obtaining the funds requested through this Loan, the Mexican government i s trying to attain
the following objectives: support the guidelines established in the government program for the
strengthening of the competitiveness of the country; assure continuity in the areas considered to
be triggers for said objective; establish specific and quantifiable goals for each area; get
specialized technical support that accompanies the execution of policies; and coordinate the
efforts carried out by the different ministries and agencies within the theme of Competitiveness.

During recent years, the Mexican government has already achieved important advances in the
issue of competitiveness, through the design and launching of programs regarding technological
innovation, labor training, improvement of the investment climate, logistics, trade facilitation and
energy. Nevertheless, it i s recognized that it i s still necessary to advance and strengthen these
 actions to achieve the objective of making Mexico one of the most competitive nations
worldwide, allowing it to increase its market share internationally with value added products,
 generate more and better employment, intensify the use of new technologies and attract a greater
flow of foreign investment.




                                                  69

                                           Subsecretariade Industria y Comercio
                                           (Under-Secretariatof Industry and
                                            Commerce)

SECRETARIA DE
  ECONOMIA                                  Official Letter No. 400.2006.003

                                            Mexico City, January 27,2006


Based on the previous considerations, the Secretariat of Economy, through this Under-
Secretariat, and as Coordinating Body of this project, requests from the World Bank its support
in obtaining the loan requested, under the scheme of "Programmatic Competitiveness
Development Policy Loan."




                                    Sincerely,
                                    The Undersecretary

                                    [Original Signed]

                                    MARIA DELROC10 R U E CHAVEZ




 C.C.Dr.Albert0 OrtegaVenzor, Coordinator of the President's Office for Public Policy- for his
 knowledge
 C.C.Lic. SergioAlejandro Garcia de Alba Zepeda, Secretaryof Economy - same purpose


                                               70

                                              Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                              (Under-Secretariat    of    Industry   and
                                              Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                 Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMIA
                                              Mexico City, January 27,2006

                                             ANNEX I

               STRATEGIESTO BOOSTCOMPETITIVENESSINMEXICO

One of the challenges Mexico currently faces in economic issues i s increasing its
competitiveness.    Accelerating    growth,   promoting well-being,      and offering prosperity
opportunities to more regions and sectors depends critically on our success in strengthening our
competitive capacity.

For that reason the National Development Plan 2001-2006 established as one of its objectives to
increase and extend the country's competitiveness as a necessary condition to attain more
dynamic growth and inclusive development.

Competitiveness i s sustained in a propitious environment for investment and employment
generation; it i s nourished by continuous innovation and training efforts; it flourishes in a
framework of regulatory and legal certainty, where the response of authorities at all levels i s
predictable and transparent, timely and governed by the rule of law.

Competitiveness requires intensively competitive markets that lead to greater investment in
research and development, the development of skills and the continuous reduction of costs, in
 addition to continuous improvement in our logistics in order to satisfy our markets, internal and
 external, with greater certainty and lower costs.

 Increasing well-being requires the instrumentation of actions in different fields: investment and
 savings, innovation and training, logistics and infrastructure, better regulation and competition,
 and institutional improvement.

 That i s why the Mexican Government, with the support and participation of different entities and
 dependencies of the Federal Public Administration, has developed a Competitiveness Agenda
 based on the following strategies:


 0   Stimulate more aggressively innovation, training and education, by fostering modern training
     schemes based on competition standards and supporting companies with high technology
     components;


 0   Improve the investment climate, by reducing the cost imposed by regulation on those that
     invest and create employment and on those .that innovate and assume risks, by guaranteeing
     an intense and transparent competitive environment in all markets;


                                                  71

                                              Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                              (Under-Secretariat     of   Industry    and
                                              Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                 Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMM
                                              Mexico City, January 27,2006

    Reduce logistics costs, in order to translate into investment and employment the comparative
    advantages offered by our geographical location and the network of trade agreements that
    open the main global markets to Mexicanbusiness;

    Increase the energy supply, by having transparent access and interconnection rules,
    strengthening the regulatory authority so as to offer transparency and guarantees to all the
    market participants, and developing alternative fuels sources;

    Foster financial deepening, by reducing the financial requirements of the public sector in
    order to open spaces for the private sector in the credit market, fostering the popular savings
    and credit network in an orderly manner, supporting the use of electronic payments,
    promoting more intense competition, and improving the regulationof brokers.

The Federal Administration has centered efforts in each one of these lines, by designing,
implementing, and attaining results with specific actions and defining new guidelines so that the
results achieved are translated into sustained productivity growth, associated with an
improvement inthe life style levels of all social groups.

O f the previous subjects, the progress attained in financial deepening has exceeded the
expectations of the present administration by reaching a financial savings level greater than 50
percent of GDP. Even though we are far from our main partners in this area, the current and
prospective financial environment in the medium term allows us to anticipate that a favorable
trend will be maintained.

In summary, to face the challenges of the current world environment, apart from maintaining
 solid macroeconomic stability, it i s important to build and maintain permanent microeconomic
efficiency that results in fair competition, higher quality of goods and services, development of
productive resources, and lower costs to do business in the country. In fact, the objective i s to
understand broadly that globalization i s a reality, productivity an obligation, and competitiveness
 a challenge.

 It has to be considered that, in the five current strategic lines, the agencies and entities of the
 Mexican Government develop specific actions with particular proposals and meaningful results.
 Nevertheless, for purposes related to the program with the World Bank, we will only focus on
 four of them, as will be described below.




                                                   12

                                                Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                                (Under-Secretariat    of   Industry    and
                                                Commerce)


SECRETAGIA DE                                   Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMIA
                                                Mexico City, January 27,2006


INNOVATION,TRAINING AND EDUCATION

Essential elements to reach an accelerated and sustained increase in productivity are innovation,
the capacity to turn those innovations into productive capital, internal skills formation in the
company, and human capital investment.

The Mexican shortfall in research and development, training systems, and education for work i s
reflected indifferent spheres:

      Insufficient investment levels in research and development, production of science and
      technology, and training of high level scientific and technological humanresources.
  0   Low education levels of workers which hinder the optimal use of training received.
  0   Lack of flexibility and relevance of training programs to the changing needs of the labor
      market.
  0   Little participation of private institutions inthe design and teaching of training.
      Incompatibility between training services and the requirements of the population and
      productive apparatus.

The efforts carried out internally in the government to decrease, dismantle, and reverse the
 shortfall in this area are the result of the development of employment support programs in the
Ministryof Social Welfare andWork; the awarding of scholarships by CONACYT; the awarding
 of stimuli for scientific and technological development (with the participation of Nafin, the
 Secretariat of Economy and CONACYT); the allocation of resources for research and
 development projects through Mixed and Sectorul Funds; support for companies and research
 centers to transform their discoveries into concrete cases with the Program of High Value Added
 inBusinesseswith Knowledge and Businessmen (AVANCE), among other results.

 There has been a dual focus, on one side incorporating companies in the innovation circuit, and
 on the other creating human capital through training.

 At the same time, training includes the association of diverse aspects that include: adults'
 education to complete basic studies (elementary and secondary school); the development of
 capabilities so that unemployed people have the possibility of being inserted into the labor
 market with better work arguments and even the improvement of labor skills intheir work place.




                                                    73

                                              Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                              (Under-Secretariat     of   Industry    and
                                              Commerce)


SECRETAGIA DE                                 Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMIA
                                              Mexico City, January 27,2006


It is worth mentioning that the integration of education, training and innovation was inlarge part
caused by the new science and technology law of 2002. The great contribution of this decisive
step to stimulate innovation was, on one hand, that it gave the institute in charge of designing the
science and technology policies (CONACYT) its own personality and did not divide it into
sectors, and on the other hand, it coordinated efforts with diverse sectors of the society so as to
involve them inthe technological development process.

The pioneering character of this initiative to drive research and development i s recent and this
makes it not well-established yet. These incipient but firm results demand that we look for ways
to protect the initiatives, allowing themto go beyondthe current governmental administration.

In this sense, we will continue our efforts with the Program supported by the World Bank
 through the following key actions:


   0  To promote technological innovation by driving technological innovation programs to
      promote actions with highvalue added through:

      a) Creation of the National Business Incubation System (SNIE) which will allow: having
           the security of counting on recognized and successful models of the Secretariat of
           Economy; integrating in one system all the traditional incubators, of intermediate
           technology and high technology; and establishing a national communications network
           that will permit knowledge management. The incubators will be able to interact,
           exchange experiences, establish best practices and strengthen the collaboration scheme.

       b) Creation of the Acceleration Program to strengthen successful Mexican companies in
           global markets and, inthis way, position Mexico as a technology-creating country.

       c) Launching of the website of the National Incubators System (SNIE) in Spanish and
           English versions (www.siem.rrob.mx/snie) which will facilitate interactionbetween the
           directors of incubators of different models recognized by the Secretariat of Economy,
           entrepreneurs and/or institutions that want to create a new business incubator.




                                                  74

                                                Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                                (Under-Secretariat    of    Industry    and
                                                Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                   Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMl4
                                                Mexico City, January 27,2006

      c) Operation of the AVANCE Program, particularly Lust Mile and Entrepreneurs
           (investment fund) which will improve the use and exploitation of scientific discoveries
           and technological developments inthe country, through:


             0   Incorporating researchers, scientists, and technology specialists in the business
                 environment;
                 The creation of new high value-added businesses, capable of generating a
                 sustainable competitive advantage, through innovation, research and technological
                 development,
             0   Offering complementary investment to that carried out by strategic investors in
                 already established businesses, that presents investment projects for the creation
                 of new high value added business lines through scientific and technological
                 developments


  0   Improve training and education levels of the labor force by improving the information
      quality intraining and education levels of the labor force through:

      a) Improving the quality of the Training Support Program (PAC). The contracting of an
          impact evaluation study of the first phase of the PAC 2002 - 2004 will proceed, with the
          purpose of estimating the quantitative impact of the program on labor productivity,
           competitiveness, and performance of the companies supported over at least two years in
           the above mentioned period.

            Likewise, basic data of the benefited businesses and workers will be analyzed for the
            previous three years, in the following areas: size, activity type, years that the company
            participated, kindof training offered, and category of workers trained. This will be done
            with the aim of constructing intermediate indicators, which will allow for capturing
            advances in productivity, competitiveness, and performance of the companies, and
            employment conditions of the workers that have been served.

            With this we are trying to improve the operation of the PAC and the rendering of this
            service, which will allow for the optimization of the resources available to take care of
            the target population, made up of employers and active workers in micro and SMEs in
            the country.




                                                   75

                                                  Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                                  (Under-Secretariat     of    industry and
                                                  Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                     Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMIA
                                                  Mexico City, January 27,2006

     b) Awarding 200,000 secondary school certificates during 2005 to the out-of-school
          population aged 15 to 34 years old, which will allow a larger number of young people to
          get the basic education competencies to continue their education and efficiently take
          advantage of the training they receive, which will help the country achieve higher levels
          of competitiveness.

INVESTMENTCLIMATE

The business environment i s important in shaping the behavior of businesses and propelling them
toward more aggressive investment and innovation strategies.

To achieve this, a transparent business environment i s required, with clear and easy to comply
with regulation, intense competition, with precise rules in order to stimulate investment and
encourage innovation. Improving the government capacity to produce good regulation i s a
necessary condition to improve competitiveness.

During this Administration, actions have been developed to stop the tendency to increase the
number of procedures and regulations (as the Regulatory Moratorium that ends in November
 2006); to improve the procedures that have the greatest impact on the operation of the companies
 and citizens (proposed by the private sector); to facilitate the rapid opening of companies; to
 intensify the competition in the markets (amendments to the Federal Competition Law); to
 reinforce the commercial and sector policy (with sector promotion programs); to modernize the
 property and commerce public registries; and others.

 In spite of the above mentioned, there are still challenges and obstacles to face:
     The perception of businessmen about the quality of the processing and resolution of
     procedures and specific management has not changed.61
     Several factors affect economic competition: the perception of rivalry between the regulatory
     and competition policies, the excessive lawsuits (amparo proceedings); the difficulties in
     collecting fines; the legal limitations and the lack of means to prevent or sanction the abuse
     of market power, to make house calls, and to carry out amnesty and leniency programs.

 Inorder to counteract these difficulties, strengthen the advantages and increase the quality of the
 legal and normative framework that promotes investment and the development of productive
 activities of businesses, the Program backed by the World Bank supports the following key
 actions:


 61See: CEESP, Survey of governability and businessdevelopment2005 (Sept. 2005).


                                                      76

                                               Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                               (Under-Secretariat    of   industry   and
                                               Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                  Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMIA
                                               Mexico City, January 27,2006



        Facilitate the entrance of new businesses through the implementation of the SARE (Rapid
        Business Opening System) in 85 municipalities, meaningthat:

             1. Operations start in 72 hours, allowing for the generation of resources and
                recovery of initial investment inless time,
             2. The time that the installed infrastructure for the development of a business i s idle
                i s reduced, which generates more resources during its useful life,
             3. The number of visits that have to be carried out to different governmental offices
                are reduced, decreasing time and travel costs,
             4. The number of procedures to be carried out is reduced, meaning that the cost to
                complete various procedures falls, as well as the time lost to comply with them,
             5. Administrative costs for the government as a whole are saved; by establishing a
                single module for the reception and resolution of the paperwork required for
                opening a business,
             6. Municipal collection is formalized by makingthe necessary normative adaptations
                to give legal support to the SARE, which at the same time translates into legal
                certainty for individuals (there is no discretionary collection or "voluntary"
                quotas). Likewise, when formalizing municipal collection, municipal authorities
                are offered budgetary certainty and municipal treasuries are strengthened.
             7. Incentives to be established in the informal market are reduced by facilitating the
                opening of businesses. Similarly, this encourages businesses already established in
                the informal market to incorporate formally and
             8. Corruption i s reduced, by influencing a decrease in the number of businesses
                established informally, and as a consequence, the wrongful payments made to
                operate in this situation. Also municipal finances are made stronger by expanding
                the universe of formal businessesthat pay taxes.


     0   Reduce transaction costs for the private sector and citizens through the review of 355
         Regulatory Impact Assessments (MIRs) in 2005 in order to improve the cost benefit
         analysis of regulation, which will:

             1. Contribute to the correct design of regulation avoiding: i)the generation of
                unnecessary obstacles for business activities, ii)an increase in the prices of goods
                 and services, iii)the discouragement of productive investment, iv) the generation
                of spaces for corruption, and v) a reduction inthe quality of services,



                                                   77

                                                Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                                (Under-Secretariat     of    Industry    and
                                                Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                   Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMtA
                                                Mexico City, January 27,2006


             2. Increase the quality of the legal system as a whole and of legal instruments in
                particular, with the purpose of increasing its benefits, reducing its costs and
                increasing its efficiency and
             3. Create incentives for business innovation and competitiveness, by eliminating and
                 simplifying paperwork, reducing costs and promoting the initiative of individuals.
             4. Promote transparency and public consultation by having documents available on
                 the Internet, so that the regulation: i)i s simple, clear and practical; ii)minimizes
                 distortions in the markets; iii)i s consistent with the legal framework; iv) produces
                 benefits which are greater than costs; and v) i s built jointly with the productive
                 sectors.

         Strengthen the economic competition policy and its application by promoting
         homogeneous competitive criteria within the Public Administration through the
         establishment of Cooperation Agreements between the CFC and 15 states and with
         Cofemer, CRE and Profeco, allowing greater coordination and efficiency between the
         Commission, regulatory bodies, and state governments, which will promoting efficiency
         inthe prevention, detection and sanction of monopolypractices.

LOGISTICS COSTS

One of the Mexican competitive advantages i s related to its geographical location, because it
facilitates the transportation of merchandise. Exploiting this advantage requires that the Mexican
borders turn into efficient ports of entry and exit for goods, services, people and businesses. It
 also requires the simplification and harmonization of international trade procedures and an
 adequate infrastructure level that facilitates the transport of merchandise once it has cleared
customs.

The growing dynamics in the movement of merchandise related to international trade made
 necessary the development and modernization of a maritime port infrastructure to accommodate
 this growth, to strengthen the integration of the Mexican ports in the main international logistic
 routes, offering world class services.

 The above resulted in significant increases in the installed infrastructure capacity, in the
 modernization of port equipment, in the productivity of handling containers which exceeded
 international standards, in the reduction of the time ships remained inport, among others.



                                                     78

                                              Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                              (Under-Secretariat    of   Industry    and
                                              Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                 Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMIA
                                              Mexico City, January 27,2006


In spite of the above, there are still challenges to overcome, like improving the coordination
between the different authorities of the ports, achieving a single inspection, having an electronic
system of information exchange between the different port actors, and continuing with the
process of modernization and expansion of the infrastructure and maritime-port equipment.

In the issue of foreign trade procedures, the schemes to cover customs proceedings were very
complex: multiple formats, discretion of the customs authorities for fee classifications, lack of
legal codes harmonization, among others.

Regardinginfrastructure, just five years ago we had a highway network whose axis was Mexico
City, which meant high costs for transportation and thus loss of competitiveness.

Additionally, budget restrictions had an effect on the performance of logistic networks. As a
result, very creative public-private alliance schemes were developed to foster the transportation
and communication systems in an integral way.

The above mentioned actions are integrated with other policies that had direct and positive
impacts on logistics costs reduction inthe year 2005:
    For the second consecutive year, total infrastructure investment (public plus private) was at a
    historical high, around 340 billion pesos.
    Modernization of more than 75% of the highway corridors, with the signing of the
    Multimodal Corridors Development Coordination Agreement (with the participation of the
    different actors that participate in the transportation and merchandise distribution logistics
    chains).
    Fiscal stimuli to small carriers for the elimination of obsolete units (scrap vehicles) with
    amounts from 15% of the value of the new vehicle.
    Record levels in the transportation of cargo by railroad (more than 90 million tons) and air
    (more than 492,000 tons)
    Increase in telecommunications coverage (fixed telephone lines grew 50 percent, the density
    of mobile telephony increased three-fold, and an accelerated expansion of the Internet users
    that reached 16 million).




                                                 79

                                                Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                                (Under-Secretariat    of   Industry   and
                                                Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                   Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOML4
                                                Mexico City, January 27,2006


0    Modernization of physical infrastructure in the country's customs and the battle against the
     illegal introduction of merchandise, among others.

The path to reach levels of competitiveness comparable with the leader countries regarding
logistics i s still arduous. That i s why Mexico should make an active effort to develop and exploit
the first level transportation infrastructure to maximize the benefits of opening, speed up customs
clearance, modernize the port infrastructure, and a create a better regulatory environment.

In parallel, it is necessary to alert Mexican companies about the relationship between the
competitiveness of their products andor services and their key logistic processes (customer
service, transportation, inventory management, and order processing) and support (storage,
merchandize handling, purchasing, and supplying, product planning, bottling, packaging and
packing and information management).

In other words, in an environment of growing global competition where a relatively small
movement in costs may define the permanence of a company in the market, logistic turns into a
key link inthe competitiveness chain of the country.

It i s necessary to guarantee strategic actions regarding logistics which give continuity and go
beyond the results that have been attained. For this, the Program backed by the World Bank
supports the following key actions:


     0   Make more efficient commercial processes, reduce foreign trade costs and strengthen
         logistic practices through:

         a) The harmonization of tariffs through the reduction of 3 and 10 points on 76% of the
              imports tariffs (TIGIE), equivalent to 9,177 tariffs lines, which covers a wide variety
              of inputs, articles, machinery and indispensable equipment for the productive life of
              national companies.

              This generalized reduction has benefited approximately 130,000 national companies
              devoted to foreign trade, because the advantages will be reflected in companies'
              imports operations, due to the favorable impact on production costs of at least 3
              percent. In this item, estimated general savings for the companies will be about US$
              446.4 million dollars. Likewise, this program allowed for a reduction in the tariff
              dispersion from 14tariff levels to only 8 Most FavoredNation tariff levels.




                                                   80

                                               Subsecretaria de industria y Comercio
                                               (Under-Secretariat    of    Industry   and
                                               Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                  Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMIA
                                               Mexico City, January 27,2006


        b) Simplification of the import requirements for inputs for exporting companies
             (benefiting 6,500 PITEX and Maquiladora companies, whose export amounts are
             equivalent to 90% of the total of the manufacturing sector), which allows us to
             strengthen the competitiveness of Mexico mainly in sectors like Automotive and
             Electronics, and provide incentives to attract new investment.

         c) "Paperless operation" inthe SICEX for operations reports, import permit applications,
             etc., including pilots within the System of new instruments of the SE in paperless
         '



             (electronic means) such as Certificates of Origin, quotas, etc.

             As part of this strategy, there has been a review of non-tariff regulation instruments,
             which has allowed for the elimination and/or simplification of procedures. The
             benefits for foreign trade businesses has been a reduction in the time and costs for
             foreign trade procedures, as well as strengthened transparency in the granting and
             operation of foreign trade instruments.

             One of the results of this strategy has been the elimination of duties that companies
             had to pay for carrying out import permitsproceedings;

         d) Implementation of the Logistics Practices Innovation Program in 92 companies, with
             the objective of providing tools so that companies can identify their total logistics
             costs and their logistic processes, freeing them from hiddencosts, reducing total costs
             and improving, as a consequence, their logistic performance. The program indicators
             are: cycle time, inventory optimization, and service levels.

         Speed up customs clearance by establishing interconnectivity between the Secretariats
         involved incustoms clearance through:

         a) The incorporation of Pitex, Maquila and PROSEC information allowing on-line
             authorizations in real time at the moment of customs clearance for merchandise,
             without the need to show a written authorization.




                                                   81

                                               Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                               (Under-Secretariat    of    Industry     and
                                               Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                  Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONOMIA
                                               Mexico City, January 27,2006

        b) The incorporation of quota administration information will allow for authorizations
             issued on-line in real time, during the process of customs clearance, without the need
             to show the respective document.


    0    Improve the quality of port services through:

         a) An interinstitutional agreement allowing the exit of the PFP and the PGR from the
             ports, to speed up the exit of containers from port facilities, reducing the number of
             inspections and the times ships stay in port, as well as minimizing the damage caused
             to the merchandise in said inspections.

         b) Installation of gamma rays in the main commercial ports to decrease the opening of
             containers and the number of inspections, contributing to speed up the departure of
             ships.

         c) Coordinated inspections between agencies (AGA, SEMARNAT, Customs Agents,
             etc.) decreasing operations and logistics costs in the merchandise commercialization
             chain.

         d) Modernization of the customs facilities (buildings, closed-circuit video, dynamic
             scales, among others) to improve the commercial logistics, speed up the import and
             export merchandise flow, and decrease operations costs.

         e) Completion of the "Study for the increase of efficiency and productivity in the port of
             Veracruz" which will permit the analysis of cargo flows inthe port inorder to identify
             the problems which affect the productivity of its different companies and authorities,
             and propose the necessary measurements to increase its efficiency and operational
             coordination.




 The energy industry is an important supplier of inputs, such as electricity and fuels, which have a
 direct influence on the competitiveness of productive activities. Thus, it is vital to have a modern
 and efficient energy sector, which guarantees a timely and sufficient supply, with high quality
 standards and competitive prices, which continuously supports the development of the rest of
 national industry.




                                                   82

                                              Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                              (Under-Secretariat      of   Industry  and
                                              Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                 Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
 ECONOMlA
                                              Mexico City, January 27,2006

The reduction of real costs inthe provision of energy and the improvement of service constitute a
fundamental element to offer the Mexican company the possibility of competing in national and
internationalmarkets.

We are looking to align the energy markets structures so as to promote investment and supply as
well as guarantee certainty and sufficiency inthe availability of the fuel supply.

Inthis regard, our efforts aretranslated into:
    An increase in electricity generation thanks to the operation of 26 electric plants during this
    Administration;
    The incorporation of almost 14 thousand megawatts in the installed capacity of the National
    Electric System in five years, representing an increase of 34 percent with respect to the
    capacity in2000.
    The starting of the ChicoasCn, El Caj6n and L a Parota works, hence assuring an increase of
    26.5 percent in the electricity generation capacity of the country with respect to what was in
    existence in 2002.
    The building and starting of 16 central combined cycle generators in the first five years of
    this Administration, operated by Independent Energy Producers, with a total capacity of
    7,767 MW, moving private participation in electricity generation from 484 MW in the year
    2000to 8,250 MW in 2005.
    A historic record in oil production in 2004 (3.38 million barrels per day) and the biggest
    surplus inthe trade balance inthe period from January to October 2005 (more than 18billion
    dollars).

Our commitment i s to redouble efforts to ensure that our country continues to have the energy
capacity that it requires. For this reason, the Program backed by the World Bank supports the
following key actions:

    rn   Strengthen and modernize the energy sector by increasing the transparency and
        performance of the hydrocarbons sector, fostering the performance o f the LPG sector and
         increasing the security of supply inthe electricity sector through:




                                                 83

                                               Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                               (Under-Secretariat   of   industry  and
                                               Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                  Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  EC0N0MIA
                                               Mexico City, January 27,2006

         a) Formalization    (publication in the DOF) of the Agreement that establishes the
             Performance Evaluation Indicators Program in PEMEX and preparation of the
             Regulatory scheme for the operations of the hydrocarbons sector which will allow for
             the evaluation and improvement of the operational performance of Petr6leos
             Mexicanos, through self regulation mechanisms, which will be monitored by the
             Secretariat of Energy.

         b) The strengthening of the regulation related to the operation of the hydrocarbons
             sector:
                 -  New regulation for Liquefied Petroleum Gas giving greater security and
                    quality of service to the user, legal security, and investment certainty and
                    modernizationof the sector.
                 -  Agreement that establishes the regulation of First-Hand Sales of Petroleum
                    Products.
                 -  Agreement which establishes the terms and contractual conditions for the
                    delivery-receipt of oil products or basic petrochemicals, obtained as 'sub
                    products from the production of non-basic petrochemicals.


     0   Implementation of transparency measures andregulatory instruments through the creation
         of a regulatory accounting work group (SENER, CFE, Luz y Fuerza y CRE) to approve
         and improve the transparency of indicators associated with the quality and management
         of the electricity sector and the carrying out of a follow-up report to be presented to
         SENER including:

         a) Energy quality and management reference indicators (CRE) that will permit, within
             the framework of the Cofemer Agreement dated August llth, the            2005,
             implementation of transparency measures and rendition of accounts for parastatal
             companies (subsidiaries and affiliates).

         The above will take place without diminishing the continued pursuit of legal reforms to
         promote private investment in the sector; foster price schemes that encourage the
         competitiveness of the sector; the diversification of natural gas supply sources and
         reinforce the regulation schemes inthe sector.

 It is true that we have shown some advances in strategic spheres for competitiveness; it is our
 commitment to strengthen and give continuity to the actions that have demonstrated important
 results inthe short term in the strengthening of competitiveness.



                                                  84

                                                                                                  I




                                              Subsecretaria de Industria y Comercio
                                              (Under-Secretariat    of    Industry   and
                                              Commerce)


SECRETARIA DE                                 Official Letter No. 400.2006.003
  ECONONllA
                                              Mexico City, January 27,2006


The Mexican Government has a National Competitiveness Agenda made up of specific proposals
from the entities and agencies of the Federal Public Administration and whose key actions are
supported by the proposed Programmatic Competitiveness Development Policy Loan.

We will continue our work inside the Federal Government, and with the support of different
actors and sectors of society, we will continue fostering actions that impact competitiveness.




                                                 85

W
00



                Indicatorsfor Bank-SupportedCompetitivenessProgram




62This indicator will be complemented by the following indicator as the methodology is developed:
Percentageof regulations issuedby regulatory agencies complying with COFEMER's comments.


                                                   89

                                            Logisticsand Trade Facilitation"
Percentageof inspections requiring customsclearance                                                                       I
that are carried out in 3 hours of less                             AGA            84%            88%           90%
                                                                     SCT            32*                     I
Average time a container stays in port (hours)64
Number of firms that reduce logistics costs more than
 15% through Logistics Practices Innovation Program                                                25       I1   22

(annual-not      cumulative)                                          SE            85             100           135
                                                               I              I              I              I
                                                            Energy
                                                                                                Terms of      Completed
Creation of regulatory accounting framework                        SENER          None         Reference      since 2008
Progressin implementationof regulatory accounting
framework (%)                                                      SENER                                         30%
Comprehensive list of standardized performance and                                Status      Completed
quality indicators (minimumof 20)                                  SENER         Report          (100%)
Number of permit holders in compliance (% of total
 number of uermit holders)65                                       SENER          None            85%            100%
Numberof approved model contracts (% of contracts
 approved)66                                                   1   SENER      1    None      I    100%      I    100%
 Number of contracts complying with establishedterms
 and conditions67                                                  SENER           None            50%           100%




63 Iti s anticipated that additional trade facilitation indicators will become available in the future as the
GOM's programs develop.
64 This is for the main 4 container ports inMexico: Manzanillo, Altamira, Veracruz, and Progreso.
65 Refers to the LP Gas regulation.
66 Refers to the agreement that establishes the regulation of first-hand sales of petroleumproducts.
"Referstotheagreementthatestablishesthetermsandcontractualconditionsofthedelivery-receipt of
petroleum products or basic petrochemicals obtained as sub-products from the production of non-basic
petrochemicals.




                                                          90


N

. .   . .



-0
C
m


. . .    . . . .




                . .


             a.


             B2
             f;




    v
    d

   tr.5

       11
      L




                   s.
      i
      Lj

      U
      6
    a 9


..
U                  cb




                   b
                   8c




                   a,

                         ANNEX 5: ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

Factors Markets and TotalFactor Productivity
1.    A complementary framework to the growth diagnostic (section III) elicit key elements and
                                                                                to
priorities for competitiveness/productivity is to look at the factors of production, their markets, and how
well the factors are used. National output i s determined by the quality and quantity of inputs-labor
(human capital), capital, and infrastructure-as    well as a residual known as total factor productivity
(TFP). TFP, which can also be thought of as know-how, is determined by some combination of
innovationhowledge and investment climate characteristics. Well functioning factors markets and the
efficient use of factors of productions are key for competitiveness and increasing productivity and
growth. A brief summary of those themes i s provided in the following sections, further bolstering the
analytical underpinnings for the DPL agenda. Detailed rationalizations for specific policies within each
subject area are includedin section IV describing the Bank-supported program.

Labor
2.    Labor regulations were identified as a constraint in the WEF executive opinion survey. Doing
Business in 2006 gives Mexico a 60 out of 100 (higher numbers mean more rigid regulation) on both its
"Rigidity of hours index" and its "Difficulty of firing index." In contrast, Chile scored a 20 on each of
these indices. As part of the AAA, the World Bank estimated the impact of a proposed labor law reform
in 2004. The analysis found that the proposal to relax the regulationof working hours alone would cause
the "Rigidity of hours index" to drop from 60 to 40. Partly as a result of strict labor regulation, Mexico
has a large informal sector, and competition from the informal sector was one of the complaints of
entrepreneursinthe focus groups. IMCO has also highlighted a number of labor market shortcomings.

3.    Despite these shortcomings, labor does not emerge as one of the top constraints. This is
corroborated by the IMCO quantitative estimates (Table 3) and other studies. An IDB (2004) study
shows that the Mexican labor market performs well relative to other labor markets in the region, with
little adverse impact on unemployment and mobility. Figure 12 shows that Mexican's consider
unemployment, low wages, and job instability to be less of a problem than every other country in the
Latin America sample. The same IDB report also shows that Mexico has the best "quality of labor
relations" and "overall efficiency in labor market performance" in the region (Figure 13). Partly because
labor is not a top constraint and partly because the subject, of labor reform i s extremely politically
sensitive, major structural reforms in labor markets are not included in the DPL.




                                                     101

   Figure 12: The Most Important Problem, by         Figure 13: Summary Measure of Overall Efficiency in
       Country (Percentage of respondents)                     Labor Market Performance (Index, 0-1)
                                                        MWKQ
                                                      CwtaRKO
                                                      Nimquo
                                                      H o d m
                                                       E6&

                                                          PWU
                                                         Chile
                                                      CwPemola
                                                      VWenarUelO
                                                        Punamo
                                                        hlwia
                                                      kryonhno
                                                         Brazil
                                                       Vrvguay
                                                                                                     8.
           Unemployment 0Lowwps
Source:Latinobarometer(2001).                        Source: IDB calculations based on householdsurvey data;
                                                     Latinobarometer(1997); World Economic Forum(2001).

4.    Labor productivity is impacted by the quality of human capital, which i s largely determined by
education and training. This DPL concentrates on adult education and training (e.g., SME support)
programs, while traditional education issues (primary/secondary/tertiary) are addressed through a series
of separate Bank projects. The WEF survey named an "inadequately educated workforce" as one of the
most problematic factors for doing business and the average education attainment of the Mexican adult
population is very low-7.6   years-compared with 11-12 years for other OECD countries. IMCO also
considers the education shortfall to be a factor that stunts Mexico's competitiveness, with the prospects
for the poor beingparticularly dismal: the poorest 10 percent of the population averages only 4 years of
formal education. Ideally, SME support programs can help overcome education shortfalls. However, a
2004 World Bank study6* (associated with the AAA) highlighted several shortcomings in existing
Mexican SME programs, including a pressing need for impact evaluations. The rationale for specific
training programs supported by the proposed DPL is discussed in section IV.

Capital
5.    Credit and capital markets are not very effective in Mexico. A telling indicator is the level of
domestic credit to the private sector, which was a paltry 17 percent of GDP in 2004. In comparison,
values in many East Asian countries are over 100percent. Not surprisingly, all the surveys highlight that
issue. Both the focus groups and the WEF executive survey identified it as the most problematic factor.
The IMCO study shows that while relatively small improvements have an impact, the big payoff comes
with significant improvements in that sector. Given the importance and complexity of this topic, it i s
being handled as a separate Programmatic Finance and Growth DPL, which will be presented to the
Board inFY06.

Znfrastructure
6.    There is ample evidence of the strong impact of infrastructure on economic growth and poverty.
Yet, Mexico lags behindin that area relative to its major partners and competitors. Calderon and Serven
(2004) have shown that if Mexico were to improve its infrastructure stock and quality to the levels of
Costa Rica (the region's infrastructure leader), Mexico's GDP would increase by 1.7 percentage points
and inequality would be significantly reduced. Thus, not surprisingly, various components of

  World Bank (2004b).


                                                    102

infrastructure have been identified as highly problematic by several sources. The focus groups considered
distribution, transport costs and logistics to be an important competitiveness constraint. They considered
railroads to be limited and costly, roads to be slow, expensive, and unsafe, and airports and ports to lack
capacity for high load volumes. A 2005 study by the U.S. International Trade Commission confirms that
Mexico falls short on a number of indicators of logistics quality, especially when compared with Chile
and countries in East Asia. Their evidence comes from a survey of 51countries which derived scores for
customs, airports, seaports, regulation, burden of security procedures, and availability of complementary
resources.With the exception of airports, Mexico falls inthe bottom 35 percent of the countries surveyed
on all of these measures (Table 8).



                      C       ~      O                                            Availabilityof        Burden of
                        Score        Regulatory
                                            ~
                                        Score        Airport
                                                      score        Seaport
                                                                    score         complementary           seturity
                                                                                      rcsourca         procedures
  Spain                  5.00            1.45          5.08         5.77                4.96               5.80
 Malaysia                5.39            2.65          3.82         4.98                5.10               5.19
  South Korea            5.50            2.94          4.49         4.83                5.11               5.00
  Chile                  5.86            1.35          4.5 1        5.45                5.20                5.83
  India                  5.86            2.14          4.93         6.33                6.40                6.50
  Argentina              6.10            2.20          5.84         6.58                5.33                6.67
  Mexico                 6.13            3.66          4.37         6.03                6.53                6.78
  China                  6.19            4.00          4.95          5.25               6.67                6.44
  Thailand               6.43            3.43          4.88          5.50               6.07                5.83
  Brazil                 6.52            3.78          5.61          7.40               7.47                7.43

the quality, efficiency, and cost of customs procedures, whether specific to airports and seaports or not specific to
any mode. The regulatory score captures the presence or absence of certain restrictions, their impact on costs and
productivity, the degree of transparency of regulation, and the degree to which foreign firms receive the same
treatment as domestic firms. The airport score summarizes the speed and cost of processing cargo through
airports, both overall and for individual cargo procedures. The seaport score summarizes the speed and cost of
processing cargo through seaports, both overall and for individual cargo procedures, including the cost of
repositioning equipment.The complementary resources score captures the presence of complementary resources
such as labor, financing, and inland transport. The security burdenscore captures the effect of security procedures
on efficiency.
Source: US.InternationalTrade Commission (2005).

7.     A separate piece of empirical work has shown the importance of infrastructure in transport costs
and trade flows. Specifically, an analysis of bilateral trade data showed that a deterioration of
infrastructure from the median to the 75" percentile raises transport costs by 12 percentage points and
reduces traded volumes by 28 percent.69

 8.    The Mexico focus groups highlighted the absence of intermodal facilities ("dry ports") that would
improve logistics management and reduce the cost of transporting goods, especially exports. Customs
laws were seen as very complicated and difficult to comply with. The data supports this assessment:
logistics costs inMexico are over 20 percent of product value, compared with an average of 9 percent for
OECD countries.70A reduction of those logistic costs to a level of twelve percentage points would have
 significant impact on economic activity and job creation, as shown elsewhere. Elevated transport costs
 and times have also led to high inventory levels for businesses: during the 1990s, Mexico had 90 percent


69 Limao and Venables (2001).
70 Guasch (2004).


                                                          103

higher raw materials inventory levels on average than the U.S."         IMCO finds that Mexico is not
capitalizing on its enormous competitive advantage of proximity to the U.S. because transport costs are
so high. Indeed, Mexico spends almost double what the U.S. does on transport as a percentageof GDP.72
This DPL has chosen to support various improvements in logistics and trade facilitation. However, it
does not include major transport infrastructure projects as they are beyond the scope of this policy-based
loan.

9.    Over the last decade, different groups have called for the implementation of far reaching reforms in
the energy sector as a necessary condition to attract sufficient private financing, improve efficiency,
lower costs, and expand the sector's contribution to the federal budget and the economy. While a national
consensus has not been reached with regard to the nature and extent of energy sector reforms, the GOM
has gradually taken conservative steps to allow limited private sector participation and improve
transparency and regulatory accounting. This DPL focuses on measures to improve efficiency, quality,
and price in the energy sector, independent of major reforms. Energy costs comprise 10.5 percent of the
total production costs of manufacturing industry products (as an aggregate). This is comparable to labor
costs which are in the range of 4-20 percent. High energy prices were identified as a constraint (although
not a top one) by the focus groups and unit electricity costs in Mexico in 2002 were higher than every
other country in IMCO's list of 44 comparator countries. Moreover, while in most countries energy
prices have dropped in the last five years, they have increased in Mexico. It should be noted, that while
most of the discussion in Mexico (as in the China debate) focused on labor costs, for many products in
manufacturing, energy costs as a share of total costs are larger than labor costs. Quality of service is
particularly poor for SMEs, which often experience variations in frequency and voltage and interruptions
in service. High energy prices and poor quality then translate into reduced SME competitiveness. Large
enterprises have fewer quality problems because they are generally served by more reliable, high-tension
wires. The DPL's approach in the electricity sector is informed by the World Bank's Infrastructure
Public Expenditure Review for Mexico, which was completed in September 2005.

 10. A summary of the primary issues inthe energy sector i s as follows:

   0    Price. The prices of fuels and electricity in Mexico      Figure 14: ElectricityPrices (USDe1kWh)
        are among the highest of the world. In contrast with      0
        other OECD and developed countries, the prices of
        electricity, natural gas, fuel oil and other fuels have    8
        increased over the last decade. (Figure 14) Steady
        price increases have had serious effects on the costs      f
        of production across different industries. In the
        manufacturing sector, the average costs of energy as
        a percentage of total production costs increased
        annually by 2.25 percent points over the period            5
        1995-2002.                                                 4
    0   Subsidies. A large portion (64 percent) of energy
        subsidies are captured by the non-poor in Mexico.73        3
        Those funds would be better used to provide for
        urgent social needs.                                           98 99 00 01 02 03 04
                                                                  Source: Various nationalenergy agencies.
        Quality. The quality of the electricity service i s poor


 71Guasch(2004); Guaschand Kogan(2003).
 72The original source is INEGI, BTS as reported in IMCO (2004).
 73World Bank (20040.


                                                       104

        compared with other countries. Service interruptions and voltage fluctuations affect the overall
        productivity levels of industries and prevent the installation o f modem electronic equipment.
        Electricity transmission and distribution also needs to be improved considerably to reduce losses.
        Capacity. To meet projected demand, large investments in new capacity are needed.

11. There are also issues in the telecom sector impacting productivity, but overall, they are of a lesser
magnitude than those in the other infrastructure sectors. Mexico's telecommunications sector grew
considerably as a result of the privatization of Telmex in the early 1990s and the gradual sector
liberalization that began in 1995. The Fox administration's efforts to transform Mexico into a knowledge
economy, mainly through its e-Mexico initiative, have also resulted in notable improvements in e-
government. However, despite having been the early reformer in L A C (after Chile), Mexico lags behind
all OECD countries and many Latin American countries in terms o f wide-spread access to telephone and
broadband internet infrastructure. Telecommunications prices are much higher in Mexico than in similar
countries. This holds true for business and residential telephone monthly subscription fees, residential
telephone connection charges, and the cost of a three minute local call. The installation and monthly
service charges for businesses to lease a local line (known as a local loop) in Mexico City are also high
compared with other major cities in Latin America.

12. Mexico's telecommunications regulatory framework and institutionsremain weak and have to some
extent failed to foster competition. This has benefited the incumbent, Telmex, and led to the high prices
mentioned above, adversely impacting economic activity. The lack of competition will be addressed
through enhancements to the Federal Law on Economic Competition supported by this DPL.While other
telecom sector improvements ought to be secured, the priority in terms o f impact i s in the other
infrastructure sectors. As a result, this DPL focuses on the logistics, trade facilitation and energy
components of infrastructure.

Total Factor Productivity: Innovation and the Investment Climate
 13. Over 1960-2000 the bulk of the differences in growth between countries (45-90 percent) was
accounted for by total factor productivity (TIT)-the      productivity contributions above those made by
physical and human capital.74A recent study on Mexico supported these results, finding that swings in
growth have been mostly accounted for by changes in the contribution of TFP, as opposed to factor
inputs.75The bad news is that the contribution of TFP to GDP growth was negative on average inMexico
between 1980 and 2003, although there has been an improvement since 1996 (see Figure 2). A separate
study found that national learningcapacity, as proxiedby TF'P, has accounted for the vast majority of the
difference in output between Korea and Mexico since 1960 (Figure 15). Korea developed its national
capacity to absorb knowledge in the 1970sand 1980s, whereas Mexico did not.76




74 World Bank (2004a). See also Lederman and Maloney (2003), Hall and Jones (1999),Dollar and Wolf (1997).
75 Faal(2005).
76 World Bank (2005~).


                                                      105

                          Figure 15: GDP per Capita Growth: Korea vs. Mexico


                Is,7f
                12

                10

                 8

                 6

                 4

                 2 t
                   "I
                 0-i                                                       9
                                        -r-----'I       I '   ` r    '  3     -7
                     1965   1971)   1$75   1m 1985        1m 19%         2001)
                 Source: Knowledge for DevelopmentProgram, WBI, as citedinWorld Bank (2005~).

14. Early growth research emphasized technological progress in explaining TFP, suggesting that
differences in growth rates were driven by differences in the technologies adopted. The dramatic
acceleration in income levels among the fast growing countries over the last 200 years can be understood
by improvements in technology. "Technology" in this sense, however, i s not limited to scientific
breakthroughs of the kind that might merit a patent. It can also include more modest advances, as well as
new and better ways to organize productionprocesses, interact with consumers, or distribute goods.

15. Recent research has emphasized that TFT can also be understood to encompass more than just
differences in technology. The broader environment in which firms operate-in           other words, the
investment climate-matters     too. A better investment climate can directly improve productivity by
reducing unjustified costs and risks flowing from government policies and behaviors. By making it more
attractive to develop and adopt new and better ways of doing things, a better investment climate will help
productivity through its impact on technology as well.77

16. A separate way to measure productivity is through labor productivity, or GDP per hour worked.
Mexico has the second lowest GDP per hour worked of all OECD countries, which equates to a -70
percentage gap with respect to U.S. levels (Figure 16). Growth in labor productivity has also been low.
GDP per hour worked grew only 1.3 percent annually between 1995 and 2004 in Mexico, making it the
fourth worst performer in the OECD (Figure 17).




l7 World Bank (2004a).


                                                   106

      Figure 16: Productivity Levels-Percentage   Gap with Respect to US GDP per Hour Worked, 2004

         20
          0
        -20
        -40
        - 60




           6 ,                                                                                    1




Source: OECD Science, Technology, and Industry Scoreboard, 2005.

17. A separate analysis breaks labor productivity growth down by sector and finds that the mining and
utilities and transport, storage, and communication sectors were the only ones that showed annual labor
productivity growth of more than 1 percent over the period 1990-2004. Meanwhile, wholesale, retail,
trade, restaurants, and hotels, construction, and other services all had negative productivity growth,
yielding negative total growth duringthe period 1990-2004 (Figure 18).78




78Note: these numbers may be incompatible with those in Figure 15.


                                                      107

                     Figure 18: Annual Labor Productivity Growth inMexico, 1990-2004

                 6%

                 5%

                 4%

                 3%

                 2%

                  1Yo

                  0%

                 -1%

                 -2%




                 Source: World Bank calculations based on XI Censo General de Poblacih y Vivienda, 1990,
                 INEGI; and EncuestaNacional de Empleo, 2004, INEGI.

18. Basedon the above productivity evidence, this DPL supports measures to encourage innovation and
technology adoption and improve the investment climate through better regulation, competition, and
trade facilitation.

Innovation and Technology Development
19. According to a recent World Bank flagship report, "technological innovation is a key source of
economic, income, and employment growth. This premise has been validated by theory and empiricism
and by now has been accepted by most                         Another World Bank flagship finds that what
distinguished the successful resource-abundant countries (Australia, Canada, and the Scandinavian
countries) from the disappointingLAC experience was precisely their ability to learn from abroad-their
national innovative capacity.80 Current research has classified the Mexican national science and
technology (S&T) learning model as one of "passive FDI-dependent learning." This means that the
country does not undertake significant efforts to facilitate local absorption and dissemination of foreign
S&T knowledge, e.g., by upgrading local workers' capabilities or by targeting the kind of FDI most
relevant to the country's long-term technological learning interests. This contrasts with "active FDI-
dependent learning" countries, such as Ireland and Singapore, that have a proven ability to actively
facilitate and promote technological learning from FDI." Finally, entrepreneursinthe focus groups noted
the lack of government support for R&D. Given the centrality of innovation in driving productivity
growth, it i s a major focus of this DPL. The proposed loan i s also complemented by the Innovation for
Competitiveness loan to Mexico (approved inMay 2005).




79De Ferranti and others (2003). Closing the Gap in Education and Technology.
''De  Ferranti and others (2002).Natural Resources to the Knowledge Economy.
  Soubbotina (2005).


                                                       108

Regulation
20.     Regulation deficiencies were highlighted as a key issue in several big-picture sources. The focus
groups complained about the high numbers of norms and regulations, as well as frequent changes to
them, which create uncertainty and provide opportunities for corruption. The WEF survey found that
inefficient government bureaucracy was one of most problematic factors for doing business in Mexico.
Doing Business in 2006 found that starting a business takes 58 days in Mexico, compared with 5 days in
the U.S. Dealing with licenses takes 222 days at a cost of 159 percent of income per capita, while it only
takes 70 days in the U.S. at a cost of 17 percent of per capita income. IMCO also identifies regulation as
a problem, ranking Mexico 36 out of 45 countries in terms of ease of opening a business. According to
COFEMER (Comisidn Federal para la Mejora Regulatoria),the cost of regulation inMexico amounts to
about 15 percent of GDP. COFEMER calculates that the benefits of potential deregulation could reduce
this cost to 5 percent of GDP.

21.     A final piece of evidence regarding regulation comes from a study of the contribution to economic
growth of changes in different structural policies. The study analyzed the contribution to the projected
change in Mexico's growth rate-during the period 2000-2010 versus the period 1991-1999-of                          an
improvement in the government burden to the 75" percentile of Latin America and the Caribbean.
Specifically, the study found that reducing the government burden in Mexico would add 0.15 percentage
points to per capita output growth during2000-2010 with respect to the 1990~.'~

Competition
22.     Barriers to competition benefit some firms but deny opportunities and increase costs to other firms
and to consumers. They also weaken incentives for protected firms to innovate and improve their
productivity. Increasing competitive pressure can increase the probability of firm innovation by more
than 50 per~ent.'~Therefore, reforms to enhance competition could have significant effects on growth. A
study of the impact of pro-competitive regulatory reform in several industries in the United States found
that annual welfare gains in the part of GDP affected by reform were more than 7 percent, with 90
percent of the benefits flowing to consumers.84Increasing competitive pressure can increase the
probability of firm innovation by more than 50 percent. According to IMCO's research, a 10 percent
improvement in the variables that compose the "competition" dimension could increase investment per
worker in Mexico by 7.5 percent (Table 3).

23.     That said, competition in Mexico is less than optimal. Deficiencies in statutory authority and
judicial review processes constrain the Federal Competition Commission's (CFC) ability to address
anticompetitive conditions effectively and efficiently. The CFC's decisions and proceedings are open to
amparo actions ("protection appeal^")'^ from dissatisfied parties, which can take many years to resolve.
Even if CFC's orders survive the "amparos," the imposed fines are not collected by the CFC but rather
by the fiscal department of the municipality of residency of the fined party. From 1993 to September this
year, only 3.3 percent of the total amount fined by CFC has been collected, while 72 percent i s under
reconsideration and 20 percent i s under amparo and fiscal nullity action.

24. According to IMCO's research on the impact of 10 dimensions on investment for 45 economies,
Mexico ranks 33 in terms of level of competition and formality of the markets. Furthermore, according to


82  Loayza, Fajnzylber, and Calder6n (2005).
83  World Bank (2004a).
84  OECD, Regulatory Policies in OECD Countries: FromInterventionism to Regulatory Governance.
85  An amparo i s a remedy against acts by any authority that violate any of the individual guarantees recognized by
the Mexican Constitution. It i s available in all legal matters and may be invoked in criminal, civil and administrative
 trials.


                                                            109

a recent governance survey, the two largest market obstacles to business development identifiedby firms
are government monopolies and private monopolies. The Global Competition Review 2003 ranking of
competition regimes in 25 countries ranks Mexico near the bottom with a score of 2.25, in a rating from
0-5, only above Greece (2.0) and Argentina (1.5) since Mexico's competition regime is considered to be
severely undercut by courts.

Trade facilitation
25.   Exports to the U.S., particularly since NAFTA, have been an important pillar of the Mexican
economy. Research suggests that Mexico's global exports would have been about 25 percent lower
without NAFTA, and FDIwould have been about 40 percent less. Also, the amount of time requiredfor
Mexican manufacturers to adopt U.S.technological innovations was cut in half with NAFTA (see Box 1
for lessons from NAFTA).86Despite the gains from NAFTA, Mexico has been losing export market
share within the U.S. in recent years. Of the top ten types of Mexican imports in the U.S., only two-
petroleumand agricultural products-gained    market share between 2001 and 2005 (Table 9). The largest
falls were seen in communications equipment, computer equipment, motor vehicles, and audiohideo
equipment. China was the biggest gainer in all but one of the categories where Mexico registered a loss.

                               Tab1 9: Mexicl s Principal Exports to thl U.S.




        Petroleum                       10.1       11.0        0.9       Venezuela       1.9
        Auto parts                     27.4       26.9         -0.5      China           2.4
        Motor vehicles                  17.1       12.4        -4.7      Korea           2.1
        Householdappliances            25.2       24.5         -0.7      China           6.4
        Audio and video equipment      28.1       23.7         -4.4      China           9.7
        Communicationequipment         23.1                              China           15.1
        Computer equipment              14.3                             China          29.5
        Clothingand accessories         13.0                             China           12.6
        Electroniccomponents            10.9                             China           7.8
        Agriculture products            22.4       24.2         1.8      Brazil          2.5
        Total                           11.5       10.4        -1.1
       Source: U.S.Departmentof Commerce,compiled by BBVA Bancomer.

26. A separate study found that the productivity of non-maquiladora plants in Mexico that start
exporting grows substantially in the 2-3 years prior to entering the export market. Their productivity
continues to grow relative to that of exporters and non-exporters for at least 2-3 years after entry,
suggesting that learning-by-exporting effects exist. Newly entering maquiladoras also seem to improve
their performance in the years after entry. The study also found that export experience is a significant
determinant of productivity growth: each year of exporting experience i s associated with a 4.5 percent
rise in TFP.~~

27.    Despite the changes wrought by NAFTA and the benefits of exporting, the U.S. market i s not
always easily accessible, especially for smaller firms and those far from the border, and costs to comply
with export procedures can be high. Doing Business in 2006 reports that "time for export" i s 18 days in
Mexico, double the number of days in the US. Focus groups also identified the lack of mechanisms to
facilitate exports as a major constraint.


86 Lederman, Maloney,and Serven (2003).
87 World Bank (2000).


                                                    110

Box 1: The Lessons from NAFTA
A recent World Bank study, "Lessons from NAFTA for LatinAmerica and the Caribbean" (Lederman, Maloney, and
Serven (2003)) highlights the following lessons:

        NAFTA can be credited for boosting Mexico's growth in the post 1994 period. By inducing a reciprocal
        reduction in trade barriers and locking-in the reforms of recent years, it has yielded a positive impact on
        trade flows, foreign direct investments, and growth of industrial productivity. It is also responsible for the
        creation of many newjobs and somereduction in poverty rates of recent ye

        Despite the positive growth effect, NAETAhas not sufficed to guarantee income convergence among North
        American countries. This reflects mainly pending items in Mexico's policy agenda including institutional
        gaps (i.e., corruption and rule of law), deficiencies in education (both coverage and quality), a passive
        innovation policy, the lack of critical infrastructure (especially in lagging regions) and some weaknesses in
        macroeconomic policy. The experience has demonstrated that while positive, an FTA with a developed
        partner is not sufficient to increase growth on a sustainable basis unless an agenda of complementary
        reforms i s pursued.

        NAFTAbenefits have been concentrated in states in the North and Center of Mexico. Southern states have
        not seen much of an impact, due to key deficiencies ininstitutions, education and infrastructure.

         Contrary to some predictions, NAFTA has not had a devastating effect on Mexico's agriculture. In fact,
         both domestic production and agricultural trade rose during the NAFTA years. The negative effects did not
         materialize because aggregate demand expandedrapidly inbothMexico andthe US.inthe latter half of the
         199Os,some segments of Mexican agriculture recorded substantial incre               productivity (esp. irrigated
                and outdated subsidies were transformed into targeted efficient             ms (e.g., Procampo) which
                  transfers to farmers from current and future production levels.

                   experience also shows that there are some key remaining barriers to trade that have limited the
         growth potential of certain sectors. Inparticular, restrictive rules of origin affecting clothing exports to the
         U.S. market seem to have limited the ability of Mexican exporters to take full advantage of NAFTA
         preferences.

Source: World Bank (2005b).




                                                          111

                   ANNEX 6: DETAILEDPOLICY AREA DESCRIPTIONS

POLICY AREA1: INNOVATION, TECHNOLOGY                  DEVELOPMENT,TRAININGAND

INNOVATIONDEVELOPMENT
                AND TECHNOLOGY

Description and Challenges
1.    Innovation is a major driver for economic growth and productivity. Roughly half of cross-
country differences in per capita income and growth are driven by differences in total factor productivity,
generally attributed to technological development and innovative capacity." These should be understood
in a broad sense, referring not only to the ability to engage in researchanddevelopment (R&D) activities,
which eventually may or may not be transformed into new outputs, but also to the efficient use of modem
operating technologies and to the adoption and adaptation of new ones. According to Prescott (1998) to
understand large international income differences, it is necessary to explain differences in productivity
(TFP). He argues that one of the main candidates to explainthose gaps is the resistanceto the adoption of
new technologies and to the efficient use of current operating technologies, which in turn are conditioned
by the institutional and policy arrangements a society employs (investment climate variables). Escribano
and Guasch (2005a, 2005b) using firm level data from investment climate surveys, investigate the
determinants of productivity using a large array of variables in four large categories: redtape, corruption
and crime; infrastructure; quality, innovation and labor skills; and corporate governance. They find that
in most countries of Latin America and Asia covered by their study variables related to innovation,
quality and training are important determinants of productivity.

2.    Lederman and Saenz (2003) present econometric evidence that suggests that innovation outcomes,
namely patents per capita, are an important explanation of the levels of development observed around the
world. In the other hand, spending on R&D, which often includes not only basic research but most
expenditure on adaptation of technologies, has typically been used as an indicator of innovation inputs.89
Lederman and Maloney (2003) examine the relationship between the R&D effort and the development
process and find that not only the share of GDP dedicated to R&D increases with income per capita in
the average country, but also that several high growth comparator countries (such as Finland, Korea and
Israel) had dramatic take-offs relative to the benchmark, a path that China and India have recently
followed. Several studies have estimated economic gains to the firms investing in R&D ranging from 25
to 30 percent, a returnfar above the average return on capital estimated around 7 percent." Furthermore,
if one considers the impact of firms' R&D spending on the economy through knowledge spillovers
improving other companies' products and production techniques by technology adoption and learning,
the return to R&D increase several fold. Lederman and Maloney (2004) in a panel of countries estimate
that the social returns to R&D exceed the return to investments in physical capital by a factor 6 to 10
dependingupon the initial level of income per capita. For Mexico, the calculations suggest a social return
to R&D above 60 percent.

3.    But R&D expenses only (or derived input measures from them) do not reveal all the intricacies at
work. The newly available data from innovation surveys has opened new routes for the assessment of the


88 Hall and Jones (1999), Dollar and Wolf (1997).
89 Although it would be possiblethat firms may have innovative sales without spending one dollar on R&D, it has
beenhypothesizedthat in general firms and countries need to spend on R&D to develop absorptiveor learning
capacity (see Cohen and Levinthal(1990), Forbesand Wield (2000), Griffith, Redding and Van Reenen(2003),
Pavitt (2001)).
  See Jones and Williams (1998) for areview.


                                                       112

contribution of innovation to productivity by enabling an explicit estimation of the innovation production
function." Recent examples of this line of researchthat follow a structural modeling approachg2-which
owes much to Griliches (see e.g., Griliches, 1999)-are             presented in CrCpon, Duguet and Mairesse
(1998), Griffith, Reddingand Van Reenen (2000), Loof and Heshmati (2001), Klomp and Van Leeuwen
(2001) and Correa, Sgnchez Garcia and Singh (2005). These studies investigate the channels linking
investment in knowledge and innovation to productivity performance at the firm level and, in general,
they find a significant impact of innovation output on the level of productivity.

4.    The Mexican innovation system performs below par compared with economies of its income
level with a low ability to translate investments into innovation. Lederman et a1 (2003) analyze two
key indicators of innovation performance, total factor productivity (TF'P) growth and the number of
patents produced, and conclude that Mexico is currently under-performing in both dimensions when
compared with other Latin American, East Asian and OECD countries. Dahlman and Kuznetsov (2005)
construct knowledge economy indexes for Mexico and find that its relatively low ranking is due to
weaknesses in all four knowledge economy pillars, namely economic incentive regime, education,
innovation, and information and communication technologies. The low performance with regards
innovation stems from a combination of factors:
   Insufficient private sector involvement in innovation activities. According to the innovation survey
    (2001), in the period 1999-2000, only 28 percent of the Mexican firms reported to have been
    involved in an innovation project and 13 percent to have performed R&D activities. There is no
    information available with respect to the total amount that Mexican firms spend in innovative
    activities. However private investment in R&D, both as a proportion of GDP and as a percentage of
    total national R&D expenditures, i s very low. Mexican firms invest a little above 0.1 percent of GDP
    inR&D, which comparesto 1.5 percent inthe OECD area, 0.4 percent inBrazil, 0.3 percent inChile,
    and 0.8 percent in China. Large companies (above 500 employees) account for the majority (69
    percent) of private R&D.
    Total R&D investment,public and private, is alsofar below the OECD levels: expenditures on R&D
    as a percentageof GDP inMexico (0.4 percent) i s the lowest of OECD countries and inferior to other
    emerging economies such as Chile (0.6 percent), Brazil (1.Ipercent), or China (1.O percent).
    High cost, excessive economic risk and lack of access tofinance are the most important limitations
    to innovation according to Mexican firms. The innovation survey investigates the factors that
    represent a major constraint to increased innovation. The most important ones are summarized in
    Figure 19.




  According to Griliches (1998), this production function should describe the transformation process that runs from
innovation inputsto innovation output.
92 The bottom line of this approach is that it i s not innovation investment but innovation output - measured, for
example, by the share of innovative sales in total sales, that should be used for the estimation of the contribution of
innovation to firm performance(e.g., multi-factor productivity (growth)).




                                                          113

                         Figure 19: Obstaclesto Innovation for Mexican Manufacturing Firms

                                       Obstacles to innovationfor Mexican manufacturingfirms




        Organizational rigidity

     1
     ' BLack of qualified labour force


       OLack of public support

     1 Etechnology
        Lack of information about

     ,  Lack of information on markets


        Lack of success in new markets

     1 0Regulatoryobstacles


       0Lackof finance


      I Excessive economic risk

      IBVery high costs




e Low level of cooperation in the development of new products'and processes: in the period 1999-
  2000, most new or significantly improved products were developed within the firm; only 15 percent
  of f i r m s reported to have collaborated with other firms. In the development of new processes,
  cooperative behavior is somewhat more prevalent with 26 percent of the firms working with other
  firms.

  Weak environment for entrepreneurship resulting in few potential high-growth start-ups suitable for
  venture capital funding. Enterprises are constrained by traditional business values and by lack of
  culture of risk-taking.Lack of venture capital funding i s also a limiting factor for the appearance of
  technology-based start-up companies. Local and national groups that foster networking among
  entrepreneurs, angel investors and venture funds, remain weak.

  Low Science and Technology skill base: Investment in human resources follows a similar pattern to
  that of R&D intensity. In 1995, there were 0.6 researchers per thousand employment in Mexico,
  compared with 0.8 researchers in China (1.1 researchers in 2002) and the average of 5.8 researchers
  per thousand employment for OECD countries. The balance of researchersin industry and the public
  sector is too much skewed towards the public sector, with only 16 percent of all researchers working
  inindustry. By contrast, the OECD averageis 64 percent.
  Inadequate linkages between public RbD and the productive sector: few companies have important
  linkages with public R&D institutions (12 percent of innovative firms) and universities (12 percent).
  This implies limited private sector access to basic and applied research, reduced relevance and
  commercialization of R&D; and a low return to public R&D investments. L6pez-Acevedo (2001)
  finds that when firms have linkages with public research institutes, their likelihood of increased
  technology absorption increases significantly. Similar findings exist for the majority of other OECD
  countries. Evidence of the low level of public-private interactions i s provided by the low provision of



                                                                 114

    technological services in the public R&D centers. Figure 20 shows the level of self-financing in the
    centers for technological developments associated with CONACYT. Even though the number of
    projects developed with firms has increased from 1,391 in 2000 to 3,695 in 2003, more progress
    needs to be made.
                      Figure 20: Proportion of Self-resources Over Total Budget, 2003




    Limited international participation and linkages: Despite being one of the ten largest economies,
    Mexico has relatively few and scattered links with foreign knowledge centers, only funds 0.25
    percent of the world's R&D, and its science base produces only 0.7 percent of new global S&T
    knowledge, as measured by publications in top S&T journals. Mexico's contribution to the global
    pool of science and technology based knowledge and its integration with other OECD countries'
    innovation systems, is deficient.
    Heavy reliance on foreign technology: In 2003, Mexico earned the negligible amount of US$54
    million from technology intangibles (patent acquisition, technology licensing payments, protected
    knowledge and know-how transfer services), compared with the US$608 million it had to buy from
    abroad. With atechnology coveragerate of 9 percent, Mexico i s at the bottom of OECD countries.
GovernmentActions
5.    The Mexican Government has made competitiveness a national priority and has embarked on a
comprehensive strategy in order to strengthen Mexico's position recognizing that a key challenge for
Mexico competitiveness and trade is the low level of involvement of the private sector in innovation
activities and the very limited industrial production with high value-added.

6.    The Government's strategy to boost innovation in the country i s articulated in the 2001-2006
Special Plan for Science and Technology (PECyT), which i s an integral part of the 2001-2006 National
Development Plan. The PECyT defines a set of strategic priorities for the S&T sector that address the
sector's shortcomings mentioned above by focusing on three overarching objectives: first, implement a
coherent policy framework for S&T; second, increase S&T capacity; and third, promote private sector
competitiveness and innovation (Figure 21).




                                                     115

7.     Mexico has a new legal framework for the Science and Technology Sector. To provide
structure to the National Innovation System, Mexico enacted in 2002 a new legal framework for the S&T
sector through the Law for Science and Technology and the Law for CONACYT. Within the framework
set by these laws, several governing bodies for the S&T sector were created: the Consejo General de
Investigacio'n CientljCca y Desarrollo Tecnolo'gico plays an essential role in defining and coordinating
public policies across different ministerial institutions at the Federal level; the Conferencia Nacional de
Ciencia y Tecnologia brings together state level S&T governing institutions; and the Foro Consultivo
CientljCco y Tecnoldgico, important as a regular consultation mechanism for public and private S&T
partners. The Laws also redefine the status of CONACYT as a "quasiministry," depending directly from
Presidency. In the recent years, CONACYT's mission has refocused on meeting the S&T needs of
different government agencies and society in general, particularly the productive sector.

8.     Decentralization, information and networking are also important components of the new
institutional setup. An important decentralization mechanism that facilitates the coordination of
innovation public policies at the federal and state level are the Consejos Estatales de Ciencia y
Tecnologia. At the moment 25 Consejos have been created and 7 more are underway. CONACYT itself
i s also committed to the decentralization process and has created 7 Regional centers that help broaden the
base of potential participants inthe CONACYT's programs. With regardsto information and networking,
several initiatives have developed: RENIECYT, as the national registry of private and public institutions
that perform innovation activities (in the first semester of 2005, there were 1,699 registered entries, of
which 924 correspond to firms; these figures are respectively 35 percent and 54 percent larger than inthe
previous year); SINECYT, another registry that compiles data on individuals qualified to perform
evaluation of S&T projects, a crucial ingredient in the implementation of innovation support programs
(10,400 entries by June 2005, 10.2 percent more than in the previous year); and SIICYT, an integral S&T
information website created in 2001 that receives an average of 7,570 monthly visits.




                                                      116

9.   Although there have been renewed efforts to increase S&T capacity in Mexico, financial
efforts are still very limited. The PECYT establishes as an objective for the period 2001-2006 to
increase R&D expenditure as a percentage of GDP from 0.4 percent to 1 percent. It i s estimated that at
the end of 2005, public and private expenditures in R&D will amount to about 40,000 million pesos, or
0.51 percent of GDP. Although there has been progress since 2000 when these expenditures only
represented0.37 percent of GDP, the goal set in PECYT for 2006 is certainly too ambitious (Figure 22).

                            Figure 22: Private and Public Investment inR&D
               Inversion Nacionalen IDE: Una Alianza Publico-Privada



                                              (Millonerde pesosde 2005)                Total
                                                                                      $82,676

                                                                                             60%



                                                                                             40%


                            2000      2001      2002           2003      2004p/  2005e/   20064




10. In 2005, federal public expenditures for Science and Technology, comprising federal R&D
expenditure, scientific and technology services and graduate and postgraduate education, will total
33,520 million pesos, which in real terms i s 11.3 percent higher than in 2004. They represent 0.41
percent of total GDP, and are allocated among different ministries as follows: Education (31 percent);
CONACYT (28.3 percent); Energy (16.5 percent); Agriculture (6.1 percent); and Health (4 percent) and
others (14 percent). CONACYT's budget amounts to 8,143 million pesos of which 33 percent is
transferred to Public Research Centers, while the remaining 67 percent is allocated to S&T projects,
scholarships, the National Researchers System (SNI), and to cover administrative costs. To this budget
need to be added 1,313 million pesos that are self generated by the 27 Research and Technological
Centers coordinated by CONACYT.

 11. There has been a reorientation in the allocation of resources. Even though the public resources
have not increased significantly to breach the gap between Mexico and other OECD countries, the
PECYT emphasizesa structural change regardingthe use of resources along the followingpremises:

0   Preferential support to projects that: i)increase the competitiveness of the productive sectors and
    generate linkages among firms, universities and research centers; ii)have an impact on regional
    development and contribute to the decentralization of S&T activities; and iii)address social
    problems.
0   Consolidation of a base of highly qualified human capital by: i)strengthening doctoral and
    postdoctoral quality programs; ii)refocusing the scholarship program to better address the demands



                                                      117

     o f the productive sector; and iii)providing additional monetary incentives to top researchers and
     technologists both in the public and the private sector.

12.    The government is aware of the crucial role that the private sector has to play to boost
innovation in the country. Private sector innovation i s at the heart of the new S&T strategy pursued by
PECYT, hence the goal to increase the proportion of R&D financed by the private sector from 26 to 40
percent of total R&D expenditures in the period 2001-2006. In 2005 this proportion was already about 38
percent. Although this represents considerable progress for Mexico where private sector involvement in
innovation activities has traditionally been very low, it i s still far from many OECD countries where on
average private participationrepresents 65 percent.

13.    Several programs coordinated by CONACYT are underway with the objective to provide
incentives for private sector competitiveness and business innovation. CONACYT work plan
obviously reflects this priority and has progressively shifted away from the supporting pure research and
toward developing applications that will help firms to become more productive. Since 2001 a series of
support programs that address different needs in the innovation strategy of firms have been launched.

14. Fiscal incentives. Development of new products, materials or processes i s promoted by providing
Jiscal incentives to firms that can claim up to 30 percent of their annual investment in R&D projects. The
tax-credit scheme budget was increased fr,om 500 million pesos in 2003-similar           to that of the two
previous years-to      about 1,000 million in 2004 and tripled this amount in 2005. The number of
participating enterprises (150) and supported projects (548) in 2001 has increased to 357 and 1308
respectively in 2004. 63 percent o f the beneficiaries and 43 percent of the projects were associated with
micro, small and medium firms. The scope of the projects varied greatly, from new agncultural products
research to improvement in reactor technology. In2004 the total investment associated with the eligible
projects amounted to 6,5 14 million pesos.

15.    CONACYT has made some efforts to evaluate the impact o f this program, by analyzing the sample
o f firms that have benefited from the fiscal incentives in the years 2001 and 2002. Rough estimates of
improvements in some performance parameters are given inTable 10below.

               Table 10: Fiscal Incentives Comparison 2001-2002: Direct Impacts and Benefits




                                                                 4,723           4,824
                   Increase in sales                             6,973           12,041
                   Increase in benefits                          1,465            2,158
                                                                                  1,568


                   New jobs created                              1,190            6,377
                   Patents                                                         123
                   New products                                                   724




 16. The regional distribution of projects that have benefited from fiscal incentives appears in Figure 23.
As can be seen three states, Nuevo Leon, Mexico DF and Chihuahua, concentrate most of the projects.
Firmsfromthe southern states did not participate inthe programinthe period 2001-2003.



                                                      118


chain linkages to SMEs. University and research centers can also be benefit from the program if they
collaborate with the productive sector. Funded projects seek to develop new products, services,
manufacturing processes and materials in selected industries, following certain evaluation criteria (see
Box 2).




20. The Fundprovides three "windows" for project proposals:
      a) Innovation and Technology Development: Pre-competitive: to complete the last phases of
          product, services or processes development, previous to commercialization; and Competitive:
          to introduce innovations and for product, services or processes development in a commercial
          stage.
      b) Creation and Consolidation of R&D Groups within Companies:to create or strengthen R&D
          groups within companies or in public institutions associated with companies, to build
          innovation capacity.
      c) Creation and Strengtheningof TechnologyInfrastructure: to strengthen R&D infrastructure, for
          instance around the creation of a laboratory, a pilot plant or a department for product
          development in a company.

21.   In the three years that the Sectoral Fund for Economic Development has been in operation 181
projects have been supported; 68 percent correspond to MSMEs and the remaining 32 percent to large
firms linked with, on average, two smaller firms participating in the corresponding productive chain (see
Box 3).




                                                  120

22.   All these Funds, incombinationwith the fiscal incentives program, play a crucial role inexpanding
the base of Mexican enterprises that initiate or consolidate their innovation activities. Moreover, the joint
administration of the Funds, with CONACYT in charge of the evaluation of the projects' technological
merit and their monitoring and evaluation, allows the exchange of information and the coordination with
other initiatives that provide more general support to private sector development, such as for instance the
Fondo PYME, fully administered by the Ministry of Economy. One of support lines of this program
especially oriented to SMEs, i s the promotion of innovation through the adoption and adaptation of new
technologies that helpbringnew products, materials and processes to the market.

23. Programs to support technology-based business are also an important ingredient in
CONACYT's strategy. While the lines of support reviewed so far try to generate critical mass by
facilitating technology upgrading and innovation activity in established firms, other recently created
programs focus on new high value added lines of innovative business. One such program called
AVANCE has recently launched several initiatives, such as a Pre-Competitive Fund and a Venture
Capital Fund. The program intends to create a critical mass of successful cases that bring innovations
from the lab to the marketplace.

24.    The objective of the Pre-Competitive Fund known as, Ultima Milla (Last Mile) i s to help
transform mature scientific and technological developments into viable high value products and services,
bridging the gap between development and commercialization. It targets two different types of
beneficiaries and, correspondingly, supports different types of activities: firms and R&D institutions. On
the one hand, firms undertaking basic or applied research or technological development can receive
support to develop: i)the last round of prototypes before market introduction and final tests to determine
industrial scale of production and investment; ii)the business and marketing plan and other studies to
evaluate the economic and technical feasibility of the investment; and iii)the requirements necessary for
the protection of industrial property rights. On the other hand, universities and other R&D public or
private institutions will be supported to carry out pre-competitive studies and patent processing, and to
hire technical assistance (Promotores de Negocio) to exploit commercially the results of their research.
These specialists will provide advice in the different phases the project will have to go through before
becoming a new business or a new business line. The program started full operation in 2004 with a
budget of 159 million pesos. By June 2005, 40 new business have been formalized, 5 more than the
statedPresidential goal.




                                                    121

25. The other component' of AVANCE, the Venture Capital Fund known as Progruma
Emprendedores, has as its objective to help start and consolidate new technology based businesses,
including market introduction and scaling up, through investment in capital funds and guarantee funds
constituted by financial institutions with legal status. The capital participation gets formalized through
collaboration agreements with Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.(NAFIN), which administers the fund and
convenes private sector investors (e.g., angel investors, private venture firms) to leverage public funds.
CONACYT's contribution i s used to buy equity in the start-up company, not exceeding 20 percent of
total capital. This program may be an important element in the still nascent venture capital industry in
Mexico. By June 2005, the impact on direct private investment was satisfactory, since for the 32.8
million pesos contributed by the Fund, the private contribution has been 171.5 million pesos.

26.   Researchers and Technologists in Industry. The Program to Incorporate Scientists,
Technologists and High-Level HumanResourcesin the Industry i s a labor market insertion program, with
the dual purpose of strengthening innovative capacity within firms, and creating linkages between the
universities and private R&D sector. The program will support firms willing to hire highly qualified
human resources to develop innovation initiatives or to identify, describe and implement new R&D
proposals. While the firm must provide proof of a contract, the support will take the form of a
scholarship to the researcher that will complement the salary provided by the firm. Although the initial
scholarship will last for one year, conditions for extension will be modulated so as to provide incentives
for the permanent insertion of the researchersand technologists inthe firm. CONACYT i s also devising a
mechanism to facilitate the exchange of information and the match between the pool of researchersready
to enter the labor market and potentialemployers.

27.   The impact of this program would be measured by its effect in the long run, in particular, by
following the proportion of doctors and technologist effectively incorporated to the private sector when
the support ends, and the changes observed in the S&T activity of the firms before and after participating
in the program. This programis expectedto be launchedby end2005 and operatein2006. It is estimated
that, with the support of this program, about 270 researcherswith doctoral or master degrees would start
working infirms inthe 12 months following the launching of the program.

 28.  Public-privateInnovation Consortia and research networks. This program intends to increase
 support to linkages between groups of enterprises with existing R&D absorption capacity, and public
 R&D centers.Each consortiumhas to define a portfolio of R&D projects, which are being carried out in
 collaborative fashion with public research centers according to their capabilities. Consortia and Research
 Networks would operate within the framework of strategic areas defined in the PECyT and within ten
 specific fields aligned with those strategic areas that have been pre-identified as demand areas for
 potential consortia (Box 4). Priority would be given to consortia with internationalparticipation in order
 to advancethe internationalization of the Mexican innovation system.




                                                     122

29. Networks would not only include research groups and companies, but also actors and stakeholders
from government (at the federal, state, and local levels) and civil society when their participation could
facilitate and further the objectives of the network.

30. The program will build on CONACYT's two pilot experiences from the formation of consortia in
medical information technology (Consortium MCdica Sur) and manufacturing of electricity transformers
(Consortium Xignux). At the moment, there are more than 10 negotiations taking place among firms and
researchcenters, with CONACYT assuminga facilitator role.

31. Technology services: firm incubators and accelerators. All the above measures, specially
oriented to support innovation in the private sector, need to be complemented in the medium term by
other initiatives aiming at strengthening the supply of technological services. As an example, Fondo
PYME, a fund focusing on SMEs and administered from the Ministry of Economy, supports the creation
of incubators and firms accelerators, in addition to innovation and technology projects presented by
firms. Incubators are physical or virtual centers that provide information, training and technical
assistance to create, evaluate and implement businessplans. They cover not only traditional business, but
also firms incorporating medium and high technology to their products. In 2004 the National Business
IncubationSystem was created and by the end of the year there were 95 incubators in the network and 67
projects were supported with equipment, infrastructure, and technical assistance servicing a total of 74
incubators.

32.    Business accelerators are also being promoted by the Ministry of Economy. Their objective i s to
facilitate the rapid growth of Mexican technology-based MSMEs through strategic alliances, access to
international venture capital and global markets penetration. So far, two such initiatives have been
launched: Techba-Silicon Valley and in Techba-Austin and started operation with 40 and 15 Mexican
enterprises, respectively.


Moving Forward
33.    Mexico should seek to increase its productivity through knowledge-based integration into global
value chains. Several steps need to be taken to make progress in the building of a coherent innovation
system with a more active role of the private sector and stronger academic-industry linkages. Efforts
should focus on:

0    Continuing the consolidation of funding mechanisms and incentives for the National Innovation
     System across all areas and levels of government. Even though there has been some progress through



                                                     123

   the creation of the sectoral and mixed funds, synergies and complementarities need to be further
   exploited. There are still many enterprise support programs under different ministries and state and
   local authorities, which have an indirect impact on technological capabilities since they are geared
   toward upgradingquality of inputs and outputs. CONACYT has to continue leveraging resources by
   pushingdifferent institutions' innovationagendas.

    Scaling-up of programs through the consolidation of funding, particularly in programs that
   emphasize technology upgradingand development, and speed up the formation of the venture capital
   industry, such as those recently launched by CONACYT. Demand support programs need to be
   complemented by strengthening the regionalinfrastructure that provides technological services.

   Evaluating more rigorously the success of the programs. Evaluations, independently performed
   according to an accepted common methodology, are necessary to determine whether programs are in
   fact helping to improve performance of firms involved in the programs. Evaluation results, translated
   into design and operational improvements, could also help to transforming the science system from
   supply to demandbased.

   Facilitating interactions between R&D institutions and industry. Although the AVANCE and the
    consortia programs can be viewed as entry points for facilitating such interactions, more efforts need
   to be allocated. To make science more relevant to industry requires providing more funding to
    enhance such linkages (support programs focusing explicitly on this objective) but also a deep reform
    to enhance incentives of research organizations to cooperate with industry. This will require to
    review the intellectual property rights system and to establish a framework for public institutions to
    reward staff by success in productive researchand linkages with the productive sector.

    Strengthening state-level innovation sub-systems, by improving the design and implementation of
    decentralized funds emphasizing the roles played by the state-level science and technology councils
    and the economic development agencies; and enlarging the focus and sphere of the collaborative
    R&D networks inorder to establish regionalinnovationclusters.

    Supporting internationalizationpolicies, by financing activities that strengthen the integration of the
    Mexican innovation system into the global system and by engaging successful Mexicans abroad in an
    international knowledge network.


POLICYAREA2: INVESTMENT CLIMATE: REGULATORY IMPROVEMENT AND COMPETITION


REGULATORY      IMPROVEMENT

Description
34. Over the last two decades, Mexico has undergone a reform processthat has redefined the economic
role of the state. Market liberalization especially through the establishment of NAFTA, privatization of
state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and regulatory reforms affecting 90 percent of the legal framework, have
moved the country closer to free and competitive markets. However, much remains to be done to address
structural weakness that constraint productivity growth. Poverty remains high; approximately 52 percent
of the population lives in poverty, a similar level than in the early 90s, and 20 percent live in extreme
poverty. The informal sector represents 33 percent of GDP. At a time when Mexico i s facing increased
competition from China and Central American countries, Mexican entrepreneur's competitiveness is



                                                     124

hindered by a series of micro-economic constraints, including the increased cost of doing business
created by the regulatory burden.

35.      Mexicois under performingonreducingthe cost of doingbusiness.Several studies demonstrate
how the regulatory burden in Mexico i s still hindering business                                The OECD, in its most recent
review94of the effect of product market regulations on investment and growth found that when regulation
i s restrictive, productivity growth i s generally below OECD average (Figure 24).95As the OECD points
out, this does not imply that governments should dismantle regulations. Regulation i s necessary for well-
functioning market economies. But regulation may also contribute to impede competition with
detrimental consequences on resource allocation, innovation and productivity. The challenge for Mexico
i s to design regulations that help to safeguard the public good without compromising economic
performance. It i s an area where learning from best performers i s crucial. The OECD estimates that if
those sectors that lag in terms of productivity were to modernize their regulatory framework and align it
on best practice, then productivity could increase by as much as 10per cent.96


      Figure 24: Product Market RegulationRestrictiveness is High inOECD Emerging Market Economies
                ` 7i          0Brnxprrtotrade sadinrtrnmar




          Note: 2003 values. The scale of the indicatorsi s 0-6 from least to mostrestrictive.
          Source: OECD Indicators of ProductMarket Regulation(www.oecd.org/eco/pmr).

 36.     Benchmarhng the cost o f doing business in Mexico i s telling as to where improvements can be
achieved through targeted regulatory improvement reforms. The "Doing Business" report of the World
Bank                  has benchmarked indicators of the cost of doing business in Mexico against more that 150
countries around the world. The report covers entry regulations, licensing regulation, employment
regulations, registering property, court efficiency, corporate governance, creditor rights and credit
 information, bankruptcy and tax issues.

 37.     Policy implications for Mexico are exceptionally important: when benchmarked against other
 countries in the Latin American region, Mexicoclearly lagsbehindinseveral indicators,includinga)
 time and cost to opena business; b) time and cost to obtaina license; c) cost of hiring; and d) cost

 93 See further cited OECD, World Bank DoingBusinessand lMC0 Competitiveness studies.
 94 "Indicators of ProductMarketRegulation", OECD, 2003.
 95 "EconomicPolicyReforms: Goingfor Growth andthe case of Mexico", Jean-PhilippeCotis, Chief Economist, OECD,2005.
 96 "Economic Policy Reforms: Goingfor Growthand the case of Mexico", Jean-PhilippeCotis, Chief Economist, OECD, 2005.
 "See                         for the 2006 data.



                                                                 125

of tax compliance. The indicators contribute to a better understanding of progress in regulatory reform
and demonstrate the efforts that remain to be achieved to improve the regulatory environment so as to
allow the Mexican private sector to become more competitive.

38.  The Mexican Institute for Competitiveness (IMCO) produced its own benchmarking report in 2005,
which concludes that the cost of the regulatory burdencurrently represents 15 percent of Mexico's GDP,
while the benefits from regulatory improvement could yield a 5 percent increase in GDP (Figure 25). The
IMCO and Doing Business reports explain more clearly the underlying linkages between enactment of
reforms and their impact on the economy. They strengthen ours and the government's ability to focus on
particular regulatory areas.

        Figure25: Cost of RegulationandPotentialBenefitsof Better Regulation( percentof GDP)
                                      15%


                                                     12%




                                    Costo de la     Ingresos      Beneficios
                                    regulaci6n   tributariis no potencialesde la
                                                   petrolems    desregulacihn
                               Source: IMCO, 2005.

39.   Overall, Mexico's performance in DoingBusiness indicators is better than the average, reaching the
top 40 percent. However, competitors such as Chile, Malaysia and Thailand are in the top 20 percent. On
the specific indicators listed above, Mexico, which is losing US trade grounds to China, is also clearly
behind its Latin American competitors.

40.   One of the first regulatory hurdles that entrepreneurs encounter when trying to translate their
business ideas into profitable companies is the time and cost it takes to open a company. The Doing
Business reports that it is cheaper and faster to open a business inChina (41 days, 14.5 percent of income
per capita) than in Mexico (58 days and 16.7 percent respectively) (Figure 26). The picture darkens
considerably when comparing Mexico to its Latin American neighbors. In,Chile, which competes with
Mexico on trade with the EU, it takes less than half (27 days) the time than in Mexico to create a
business. Mexico also falls well short of countries like Argentina (32 days), Colombia (43 days), and
even Bolivia (50 days).




                                                       126

                l l m t o S a t a&ness(ogs)                     Costto Start a Business(%of incom per capita)




                                                     I  I
Source: DoingBusiness.

41. The regulatory cost associated with operating a business i s one of the main factors that drive
companies into the informal sector and which can reduce the competitiveness of entire sectors of the
economy. The construction sector i s particularly affected. The Doing Business report shows that it takes
222 days to obtain a license to build a warehouse in Mexico, placing it in the bottom quarter of Latin
American countries. In comparison, obtaining a license takes 150 days in Colombia, 187 days in Bolvia,
and 191 days in Chile. Costs to obtain a license inMexico (159 percent of income per capita) are not bad
compared with many countries in Latin America, but there is still significant room for improvement. For
instance, it only costs 48 percent of income per capita in Argentina and 125 percent inChile. These times
and costs are indicators of the weight that the regulatory burden can play on investment and/or
compliance decisions that investors have to face while trying to grow their market share.

42.    Other indicators also point out to regulatory weaknesses: Mexico is in the bottom third of the
world-wide distribution of the ease of enforcing contracts. Regarding property registration, there are as
many procedures in Mexico as in Australia and Ireland, but it takes at least twice as long. The
registration at the registry of property i s the main source of bottlenecks; this procedure may take between
1 and 3 months. Costs to register property are high in Mexico, encouraging informal transactions that
leave the property registry out of date and reducingthe availability of collateral for firms trying to access
financing.98

43.    Another example is the cost of hiring workers. Doing Business estimates that hiring an employee
costs just under a quarter of that employee's annual salary in Mexico, well above all but three Latin
American countries. Comparable numbers (percentage of salary) are 3 percent in Chile, 10 percent in
Peru, and 14 percent in Bolivia. Finally, tax regulations are complicated enough that it takes the average
Mexican entrepreneur 536 hours per year to pay taxes. Meanwhile, entrepreneurs in both Colombia and
Chile only spend432 hours payingtaxes.

44.    In conclusion, the costs related to the complex regulatory framework, non-transparent business
procedures and weak judicial structures remain factors inhibiting investment in Mexico. They create
indirect costs that impede Mexican manufacturers intheir competition with other countries, and translate
intojob loss and growth reduction.

45.    Lack of harmonization in regulatory environment negatively impacts businesses. Since
regulatory responsibilities are shared among the federal, state and municipal level, coordination i s
necessaryto eliminate the overlaps, duplication and inconsistency with federal regulations. A 2003 study


98 See ~ww.doingbusiness.orgfor the    2006 data.



                                                         127

commissioned by the Business Coordination Council (CCE) showed marked differences in the quality of
the regulatory framework among states.99On the positive side, improvements in some sub-national
entities have attracted reforms in others, as has been the case with the Rapid Business Start-up System
(SARE). Benchmarkingdifferent states and municipalities can spur this positive competition to improve
regulations. The result of two state by state studies will be released in early 2006 by IMCO and
FIAS/Doing Business.


Challenges and GovernmentActions to Address Them
46.    The           government            has              Figure 27: Institutional Design for Regulatory Review
undertaken various actions aimed
at regulatoryimprovement.In2000,
amendments            to      the     Federal
Administrative Procedures Law (Ley
Federal           de          Procedimiento                                                               i
Administrativo,                        LFPA)
institutionalized            the      Federal
Regulatory Improvement Commission
(COFEMER).

47. COFEMER i s a technically and
functionally autonomous agency of
the Ministry of Economy created to
co-ordinate and to supervise the Regulatory Improvement Program of the government, to ensure the
transparency of the regulatory process and promote regulations that produce benefits greater than the
costs. Mexico i s one of the few developing countries which created a mechanismto challenge the quality
of new regulation through the establishment of mandatory Remlatorv Impact Assessment (RIA) for all
new regulation that imposes costs on citizens. COFEMER plays the key role of systematically reviewing
 RLAs and regulatory improvement proposals (Figure 27).

 48. The systematic review of administrative proposals is now well-grounded in law, and COFEMER is
 fairly effective in improving "new regulations" (Figure 28). Though COFEMER has the power to present
 reforms to existing regulation, it is sometime difficult to achieve results without a good partnership with
 the responsible Ministry. In other words, COFEMER can push for the structural reform agenda, but it
 cannot carry it out on its own.




99 CEESP. 2003. "Calidad del Marco Regulatono en las Entidades Federativas.Estudio Comparativo Noviembre 2003".




                                                                  128

         Figure 28: R I A and Draft Regulation Review Process              49.  Accountability        and
                                                                           transparency of the regulatory
                                                                           review process is supported by
                                                                           the right to apply      severe
                                                                E          sanctions for non-compliance.
                                                                           Sanctions are applied by the
                                                                           Ministry of Public Function. A
                          " .*                                             key enforcement     power of
                                                                           COFEMER i s that regulations
                                                                           cannot be published in the
                                                                           national gazette without its
                                                                           explicit opinion.
                                               f c


  Figure 29: Draft Regulation Sent to COFEMER           50. Certain specified federal agencies must send
                                                        each of their draft proposals, together with an
                                                        RIA, to COFEMER, which will make them public
                                                         on www.cofemer.gob.mx. COFEMER has the
                                                         authority to issue a public opinion concerning
                                                         each draft proposal and RIA. It also has the
                                                         authority to request changes in the RIA, and, in
                                                         specific cases such as high impact regulations, it

                                           2003          can seek expert opinions on the draft proposal
Source: COFEMER, 2004.                                   (Figure 29).

51.  For other agencies, COFEMER has "optional or not optional" authority to review and analyze all
proposals with general exemptions in fiscal policy, criminal justice and nationaldefense. COFEMER can
hence develop reform proposals in collaboration with these agencies. In the Fox administration,
COFEMER has made use of its optional authority to propose new measures in at least three areas: (1)
with Interior, it co-sponsored the Transparency Act (2003), (2) with Treasury, Foreign Affairs, and
Labor, it co- sponsored administrative reforms to reduce federal procedures for start-ups and (3) with
states and municipalities it sponsoredthe federalhub-federal fast track start-up program(see below).

52. Regulatory planning activities have been undertaken. The amendments to the LFPA also
included the creation of the Regulatory Betterment Programs (RBP) a mechanism to organize future
regulations that give the public the opportunity to participate in regulatory planning.At least every two
years Ministries and regulators most prepare a RBP to inform the public of their plans for regulation
proposal and the possible creation of new formalities. These RBPs are beginning to build a discipline of
periodical review and planning of the regulatory framework and its amendments. The RBP also help to
achieve the central purpose of the federal regulatory improvement policy: to create and to modify
regulations and formalities according to processes based on planning, transparency, analysis potential
effects, and public consultation, in order to obtain the highest social benefit.

53.   The first draft of the RBPs is submitted to COFEMER, and posted for public comments on
COFEMER's Web site (www.cofemer.gob.mx) for at least twenty days. After the period of public
consultation, COFEMER sends to each ministry and decentralized agency its comments to the programs
as well as other public comments received. Each regulatory agency then makes any corresponding
changes to its program or explains the reasons for rejection, publishing the final version in the Official
Gazette within a month. Each agency must submit to COFEMER a periodical report on compliance with
the programand possible modifications to the programs are assessed.


                                                      I29

54.   The last version o f RBP, was presented in the summer of 2005, with a novelty, this time the RBP
where prepared with a Private/ Public dialogue, that took place before the first draft of the RBP was
prepared. This approach made it possible to unify efforts in a new "systemic approach" to regulation,
creating a coordination mechanism between the public, academic and private sectors. The idea was to set
regulatory priorities in conjunction with the private sector. The "systemic approach" also aimed to
incorporate a holistic analysis o f regulatory system in particular economic sectors. Together, the Mexican
public and private sectors defined 36 specific actions related to regulatory improvement that could
influence competitiveness in a positive way. Those actions have impact in specific areas, such as:
Transport and Telecommunications, Labor and social security, Health, Energy, Foreign trade, Finance,
Technical standards, Migration, and States and Municipalities.

55.   Progress has also been achieved at the sub-national level. COFEMER does not have direct
jurisdiction over the states and municipalities. However, one of the functions o f COFEMER i s to provide
technical assistance in regulatory improvement to states and municipalities. Also, the Program for
Regulatory Improvement 2001-2006 (Progrumu de Mejoru Regulutoriu 2001-2006) establishes the
promotion of a culture of regulatory improvement in the three levels o f government as one of
COFEMER's strategic objectives. COFEMER has thus signed coordination agreements with all states
and the Federal District in which states agree to implement regulatory programs similar to the one at the
federal level, and has signed 50 Memorandums of Understanding with municipalities. COFEMER' s
support to states and municipalities has varied from providing technical assistance in establishing
registries of formalities to conductingreview of regulatory authorities to designing enforcement schemes.
As an illustration, 67 municipalities' regulatory improvement systems are currently being inventoriedby
the COFEMER.


                                    Figure 30: SARE Municipalities to Date




                                                       130

56. SimplifyingBusinessStart-ups. A cornerstoneof this strategy is the "Sistema de Apertura R6pida
de Empresas" (SARE) created by COFEMER. SARE was issued at the federal government in 2002 and
allowed businesses to complete two federal formalities (obtaining a fiscal identification number and
name registration) in one business day. Building on this mechanism, some 85 municipalities
(representing 35.7 percent of Mexican GDP) have also implemented SARE to simplify the regulatory
burden when trying to set up a business, 100 reducing the time to start-up a business from over 30 days to
1-2 days (Figure 30). COFEMER i s to have had implemented SARE in a total of 100 municipalities by
the end of 2006. SARE is considered an important tool in developing compatible systems at the state and
local levels. However, SARE has been only partially implemented in some locations. Moreover, even
with SARE, the entrepreneur still has to register separately with labor and social security authorities as
well as the statistical office.

57.    The FederalRegulatory Improvement Council. The Federal Regulatory Improvement Program,
designed and co-coordinated by COFEMER, i s supported by the Federal Regulatory Improvement
Council (Consejo para la Mejora Regulatoria Federal), whose membership was also modified by the
LFPA. The president of the Council is the Minister of Economy. Other members are the Minister of
Finance, the Minister of Labor, the Minister of the Public Function, the General Director of COFEMER,
the Governor of the Bank of Mexico, five business sector representatives and at least one representative
from the labor, agncultural and academic sector. The President's Legal Counsel, the President of the
Federal Competition Commission, and the President of the Federal Consumer Protection Agency
(PROFECO) were added as new members after 2000. This Council mirrors the experience of other
OECD countries, involving labor and business representatives in official advisory bodies to the
government for regulatory matters.

58. Regulatory Moratorium. In a                         Figure 31: The Regulatory Moratorium
meeting of the Council in April 2004,
President Fox announced a moratorium
for one year on regulations as part of an
effort to further reduce burdens on
businesses. Under this moratorium, any
new federal regulations must be shown to
have benefits that significantly surpass
the costs, or be driven by an emergency
 situation (Figure 31). This moratorium
 has caused a significant reduction in
 issuing and renewing regulations. The
 moratorium process has been effective in
 reducing the number of regulations being
 issued, illustrated by the fact that 38 percent fewer regulations are now "produced" by the federal
 authorities, compared with the number before the moratorium. But it also has had a positive impact
 upstream, within agencies and institutions, which are now submitting 34 percent less proposals for new
 regulations, compared with the volume of proposals they used to forward for review before the
 moratorium."' In 2005, the Moratorium was extended for another year at the demand of the Private
 Sector.

 59. Public Access to Information and Stakeholder participation. COFEMER has succeeded in
 increasing transparency in implementation of regulations. Through open communication with the public


loo
  FigurefromJune 2005, source COFEMER.
 lo'Idem.


                                                    131

and the private sector in particular, transparency is a key element that has been reinforced. COFEMER
has emphasized its importance not only with RIA'Sand commentary on draft regulations, but also with
public participation in comment procedures, and with clearer legal requirements for notifications.

60. Within the government, COFEMER disseminates knowledge about RIAs among institutions
through training courses and its electronic portal, which has proved to be a major success. COFEMER
has also developed a Federal Registry of Procedures and Services (Registro Federal de Trdmites y
Sewicios, RFTS) that contains all formalities and services of the federal administration with general
exemptions in fiscal formalities.

61.   Transparency mechanismshave also been strengthenedthrough the creation of the Federal Institute
of Access to Public Information (Instituto Federal de Acceso a la Informacidn Pziblica, IFAI), which
enforces the Federal Law of Transparency and Access to Public Information (Ley Federal de
Transparencia y Acceso a la Informacidn Gubernamental), enacted in 2002. FA1 guarantees the
effectiveness of both the right to access public information and the right to privacy through data
protection and promotes transparency and public sector accountability.


COMPETITION

Description
62. Competition, and the benefits it brings with respect to lower prices, more variety and new products,
has been recognized as crucial for markets to work well and for increasing the wellbeing of a society.
Policies that enhance competition are expectedto bring not only static improvements inefficiency, due to
competitive pressures on the monopoly's "sleeping on its laurels" but also dynamic improvements in
efficiency, through improvements in productivity and innovation. Recent empirical research indicates
that regulation that lowers entry barriers and state control increases productivity and technological
innovation,"'    stimulates business investment and increases long-run employment rates.Io3Therefore,
reforms to enhance competition could have significant effects on growth. A study of the impact of pro-
competitiveregulatory reform in several industries inthe United States found that annual welfare gains in
the part of GDP affected by reform were more than 7 percent, with 90 percent of the benefits flowing to
consumers.'04Increasing competitive pressure can increase the probability of firm innovation by more
than 50 percent.'05

63.    Although Article 28 of the Mexican Constitution of 1917 prohibits monopolies and monopolistic
practices, competition policies and their implementation are relatively new in Mexico. It was only
in1993, during the important wave of reform of the mid OS, that the Federal Law of Economic
Competition (Ley Federal de Competencia Economica) was enacted and the Federal Competition
Commission (Comision Federal de Competencia, CFC) was created. Regulations to the law, that defined
the actual proceduresthat the CFC would use to implementthe law, were later publishedin 1998.

64.    The Competition Law prohibits either absolute (price-fixing, output and distribution restrictions,
market division and concerted bidding in public tenders) or relative monopolistic practices if they


 IO2Nicoletti and Scarpetta, Regulation,Productivity,and Growth, OECD Evidence.The World Bank Policy
ResearchWorkingPaper. 2003.
    Nicoletti and Scarpetta, Product Market Reforms: Macro Linkages and Effects on Growth, A Partial Survey.
2004.
 `04OECD, Regulatory Policies in OECD Countries: FromInterventionismto Regulatory Governance.
 IO5World Bank (2004a).


                                                        132

demonstrably limit competition (vertical market division, restrictions on resale, tied sales, exclusivity
contracts, boycotts, predatory pricing, discounts, cross-subsidies, imposition of different prices or sales
conditions of goods or services). The Competition Law provides administrative sanctions, including
corrective conduct orders and fines, for monopolistic practice violations. The Competition Law
investigates concentrations including mergers and acquisitions that combine corporations, associations,
partnerships, shares, interests, assets or trusts between competitors, suppliers, customers or any other
economic agents. Only large concentrations require economic agents to notify authorities prior to their
completion. CFC assesses the legality of concentrations and could sanction them by ordering partial or
full divestiture and fines. CFC also oversees State regulations and cancels them if they constitute
interstate trade barriers.

65.   The CFC is an independent agency of the Federal government with technical and operational
autonomy but is attachedto the Secretariat of Economy for budgetary purposes. CFC does not collect any
fines but rather they are remittedto a general treasury fund. The CFC's President and four commissioners
are appointed for staggeredten year terms by the President of Mexico. This provides independencesince
the commissioners are protected by the duration of their tenure and avoids the usual turnover during
change in administration every six years. The CFC has a plenum, composed by five commissioners, of
which one i s the president. Resolutions of the plenum are adopted by the majority vote of commissioners,
the president havingthe casting vote.

66. In addition to the CFC, competition and consumer protection is also enforced through the Federal
Consumer Protection Law by the Federal Prosecutor for Consumers (PROFECO). The objective of the
Consumer Protection Law is to promote and protect consumer rights and procure equity and legal
security in relationships between suppliers and consumers. Also, regulatory commissions have been
established for specific economic sectors: the Federal Telecommunications Commission (COFETEL)
within the Secretariat of Communications and Transportation to regulate telecommunications, the Energy
Regulatory Commission (CRE) to regulate electricity and gas, the National Insurance and Bonding
Commission to regulate insurance and bonds, and the National Retirement FundSystem Commission that
regulates pension funds. The transportation sector i s regulated directly by the Secretariat of
Communications and Transportation. The Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit, the National Banking
and Securities Commission, and the Mexican central bank regulate the financial and banking sector.
Although these institutions can impose price controls to limit monopolistic power, the CFC has first to
determine if there is an absence of effective competition in the market. Also, although these other
"regulators" can award concessions, licenses, or permits intheir regulated sector, they could only award
them after the CFC has given a favorable opinion.

Challenges
67. An OECD assessment of Mexico's competition law and policy completed in 199816concluded that
the law was well-conceived and that the CFC had strong enforcement powers and important authority to
 affect direct market regulation by other agencies. There was, however, no clear base of support for
competitionpolicy, and the CFC's enforcement record could be questioned. Since then, a new review by
the OECDlo7confirmedthat the strengths identified inthe first review still pertain, butthere were now no
doubts about the CFC's willingness to engage powerful economic interests. It also ascertained that the
 CFC had matured into a credible and well-respected agency that had compiled a remarkable record of
 achievement given the difficulties of its environment. It highlighted, however, the following challenges



 lo6OECD, BackgroundReport on the Role of Competition Policy inRegulatoryReform, in OECD,
 Regulatory Reformin Mexico. 1999.
    OECD, CompetitionLaw and Policy in Mexico. an OECD Peer Review. 2004.


                                                     I33

and opportunities for improvement: (i)limited degree of general support for competition policy; (ii)
certain deficiencies in statutory authority and judicial review processes constrain the CFC' s ability to
address anticompetitive conditions effectively and efficiently; (iii)a decline in resources despite an
increasing workload; and (iv) some of the CFC's procedures and methods o f interface with other
government entities reduce its efficacy as a law enforcement agency and competition advocate.

68.   As both OECD assessments show and despite having made progress incompetition law andpolicy,
there are several aspects that still limit competition in Mexico. The OECD barriers to competition
indicator that measures legal barriers to competition and antitrust exemptions for public enterprises
shows that this index has gotten worse in Mexico and that Mexico has the largest barriers to competition
among OECD countries (Figure 32).Io8 The challenges to effective competition in Mexico are reflected
both in their impact on investment and on the perceptions of entrepreneurs. According to IMCO's
research on the impact of 10 dimensions o f competitiveness on investment for 45 economies, Mexico
ranks 33 in terms of level of competition and formality of the markets.log Furthermore, according to a
recent governance survey, the two largest market obstacles to business development identified by firms
are government monopolies and private monopolies (Figure 33).'1 The Global Competition Review 2003
ranking of competition regimes in 25 countries ranks Mexico near the bottom with a score of 2.25, in a
rating from 0-5, only above Greece (2.0) and Argentina (1.5) since Mexico's competition regime i s
considered to be severely undercut by courts."'

           Figure 32: Barriers to Competition                Figure 33: Market Obstacles to BusinessDevelopment

                                                                                      Public monophea


                                                                                     Private monopolies


                                                                                       Access to finance


                                                              Illegaltransactionsbetweencompander


                                                                              Availabilityof skilled labor


                                                                  Levelof technologicaldevelopment


                                                                                   Rotationof personnel


                                                                                              LaborCOSb

                                                               Avavallebbllltyof raw materials, inputs and
                                                                                 equipment

 Note: Lower ranking numbers are better.                                           Reliabilityof suppliers

 Source: Product Market Regulation in OECD Countries:             source:CEESP, EncuestaSobre Gobernabilidad
 1998to 2003 (2005).                                              Desarrollo Empresarial2005.



 69. One major limitation to CFC's action arises from two proceedings at the Federal Judiciary that are
 brought by dissatisfied parties to seek judicial relief. These two proceedings, the amparo actions
 ("protection appeals") at the Federal District Court and the fiscal nullity actions at the Federal



 loxIn "Product MarketRegulationin OECD Countries: 1998 to 2003" (2005), legal barriersto competition measure
 the explicit legal limitations on the number of competitors allowed in awide range of businesssectors and antitrust
 exemptions measurethe exemptionsto competition law for public enterprises. The index is from 0 to 6 where 0 i s no
 limitations and 6 denotes the highest limitations.
 lo9IMCO, Hacia un pacto de competitividad - Situacidnde la competitividad de MCxico 2004.
 110Centro de EstudiosEcondmicosdel Sector Privado (CEESP), Encuesta Sobre Gobernabilidady Desarrollo
 Empresarial2005.
 111Global Competition Review, Volume 6 Issue 6 June 2003.


                                                           134

Administrative and Fiscal Justice                can take many years to resolve and have proliferated over the
years. On average it takes 401 days for these suits to be resolved and between 1994 and 2004 the number
of suits (amparos and fiscal nullity) increased from 41 to 170. Even if CFC's orders survive the amparos
and fiscal nullity actions, the imposed fines are not collected by the CFC but rather by the fiscal
department of the municipality o f residency of the fined party. From 1993 to September 2005, only 3.3
percent o f the total amount fined by the CFC was collected, while 72 percent i s under reconsideration
and 20 percent i s under amparo and fiscal nullity action.

70. Another important limitation to the CFC's ability to address anticompetitive conditions effectively
and efficiently i s that the CFC lacks many powers that competition commissions in other countries have
(Figure 34). Among these are the ability to divest monopolies, undertake searches, implement leniency
programs, and order preventive measures. Due to limitations in the Competition Law, the CFC i s not able
to prosecute and divest or impose price controls on a dominant firm that restricts supply and raises prices.
Also, without the use o f search and seizure authority, it i s difficult for the CFC to detect surreptitious
collusion. The lack of a leniency program for the CFC restricts its ability to provide reductions in
monetary penalties to conspirators who voluntarily reveal collusive agreements.

                             Figure 34: Powers of Selected Competition Commissions

                                                  USA      European      Chile     Australia
                                                             Union

 Prevent agreements among competitors


 Prevent monopolistic practices


 Merger control


  Prevent predatory pricing


 Monopolies divestiture


 Undertake searches



 Implement leniency programs



71. CFC has limited coordination with other regulators at the federal, state and municipal levels. Given
the powers o f the many sectoral regulators, of other agencies such as COFEMER and PROFECO, and o f
state and municipal entities, the CFC could improve its effectiveness by working more closely with them.
The CFC could benefit from monitoring the sectoral regulator's regulatory postings and comment on
them. Likewise, the CFC i s not taking advantage of data available from other regulators, such as


11* An arnparo is a remedy against acts by any authority that violate any of the individual guarantees recognized by
the Mexican Constitution. It is available inall legal matters and may be invoked in criminal, civil and administrative
trials. If CFC's resolution imposes a fine, then the private party can request a review by the Federal Administrative
and Fiscal Justice Court, which mostly considers tax cases, but also assertsjurisdiction to review any agency.


                                                          135

PROFECO, that could be useful in detecting collusive behavior. This collaboration and taking advantage
of the possibility of exploiting synergies could also prove useful given the declining budget of the CFC.
Although the number of cases has increased, the CFC's budget has fallen 9 percent inreal terms between
2000 and 2004.

GovernmentActions
72. To face the many challenges outlined above, the federal government is taking action to enhance
both competition policy and the role of the CFC. For this, the CFC is providing technical support to
legislative proposals that could amend the Federal Competition Law in order to improve CFC's ability to
address anticompetitive conditions effectively and efficiently. One major aspect of this amendment
would be to avoid excessive legal challenges by.dissatisfiedparties to the resolutions issuedby the CFC.
Other challenges to be addressed by the amendment to the Federal Competition law include expanding
the CFC's ability to divest monopolies, undertake searches, implement leniency programs, and order
preventive measures.

73. The CFC has also started a process of strengthening its internal procedures. It has undertaken an
internal restructuring aimed at reallocating resources to operative areas that are responsible for major
procedures. It is also prioritizing investigations and deepening the analysis. To maximize the probability
that CFC resolutions are ratified by courts, it is developing a comprehensive strategy for each
investigation. It i s also outsourcing the study of industries or sectors requiring a high level of
specialization to external experts or consultants.

74. The CFC is also strengthening its cooperation with other institutions. It i s promoting greater inter-
institutional cooperation for which inter-agency agreements are being signed with other agencies. In
September of this year, the CFC signed administrative collaboration agreements with COFEMER and
PROFECO. The collaboration agreements establish mechanisms and bases for collaboration within its
respective scopes of power. The agreement signed between the CFC and PROFECO focuses increased
collaboration on improving consumers' protection and preventing monopolistic practices. The agreement
between the CFC and COFEMER joins efforts for the promotion of the competition principles and
economic efficiency in the regulations and administrative acts of the Federal Government. The
agreements establish concrete mechanisms (exchanges of information, training, joint analysis of
regulations and an early alert system by which CFC will comment on regulations that might affect
competition). During 2004, the CFC participated in several inter-ministerial commissions with the
purpose of promoting the principles of economic competition in the design and application of public
policies and programs. The CFC is also signing agreements of administrative cooperation to provide
training, technical assistance and registry information to state and municipal officials and local economic
agents so that they could identify practices that limit competition. By the end of 2005, CFC would have
signed agreementswith 15 states.

75. In addition to the efforts by CFC to strengthen its cooperation with other federal institutions and
with the states, it has taken several actions to increase the general support for competition policy. The
CFC has created and fortified communication mechanisms with diverse regulatory agencies and
 secretariats of state and has assigned important resourcesto create a "competition culture" among various
 stakeholders (consumers, academia, entrepreneurs, investors, and public officials). In2005 and for fourth
consecutive year, the CFC celebrated the "Competition Day" and has undertaken many seminars to
promote the principles of competition in Mexico. Also, in order to increase transparency and general
 support for competition policy, the CFC has designed diverse means of diffusion to inform the public
about the decisions made in specific cases. During 2005, the CFC presented to the public the decisions
 on several subjects through diverse publications and channels (printed reports on economic competition;



                                                     136

an economic competition gazette in which decisions are published, summaries of the resolutions on its
web page and the Official Gazette of the Federal Government).


POLICY AREA3: LOGISTICS             AND TRADE    FACILITATION

Description
76. The trade and investment environment in Mexico has been transformed over the past two decades.
T h i s i s in part due to the 1994 launch of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) with the
United States and Canada, and, more recently, trade agreements with the European Union and Japan."3
Growing competitive pressures from countries such as China have also engendered policy reform
measures to lower trade transactions costs to expand export opportunities for Mexican firms. The engine
of export-led expansion in the second half of the 1990s, however, has turned to lower growth rates in
recent years. Exports have diversified away from petroleum and related products, however, Mexico
remains heavily dependent on a single market -- the UnitedStates.

77. After implementation of the NAFTA, the growth of manufacturing exports from Mexico intensified
as maquiladora operations along the US. border expanded. Since the early 1990s, manufacturing has
accounted for over 70 percent of the total exports. Mexico's trade surplus with the U.S. has risen
substantially in recent years and totaled US53.7 billion in 2004. Mexico's deficits with other trading
partners (mainly China) have been widening more rapidly. This has led to a growth in the merchandise
trade deficit in 2004, to 1.3 percent of GDP (from 0.9 percent of GDP in 2003).''4 Inaddition, while the
NAFTA has had clear and demonstrable positive impacts on growth and employment, the advantage of
preferential access to the U.S. market i s being eroded by international competition. Mexico has also had
limited success in establishing strong relationships with European and Asian firms and expansion of
exports in these markets, in part due to the lack of incentives for maquilas to establish strategic alliances
outside of NAFTA. Continued high trade transactions costs associated with reaching these markets for
Mexican firms is one important contributing factor inhibitingprogress in export expansion in this broader
picture.

78. In2003, China surpassed Mexico as the UnitedStates' second largest trading partner after Canada.
Mexico is losing its competitiveness to China not only in terms of labor costs but also in areas directly
related to trade facilitation. These include, among other factors, wider use of information technology in
trade transactions, streamlined regulatory requirements on imports, and assistanceto small and medium-
sized firms in trade logistics.

79. During the last decade, growth in Total Factor Productivity (TFP) has been minimal; TFP
contributed only 0.7 percentage points to annual GDP growth during 1996-2003 (see Figure 2).
Increasing private sector labor productivity requires greater access to financial services, infrastructure,
lower cost logistics services, and increased government regulatory transparency - which are all factors
tied to trade facilitation and logistics objectives. In order to regain competitiveness, increases in
efficiency and reduction in costs of the various components of the logistics chain are a priority.




    Currently, Mexico has signed 12Free Trade Agreements with 43 countries in North America, Latin America,
Europe and Asia.
114  Economist Intelligence Unit (2005). Country Profile Mexico.


                                                         137

                                        Table 11: Trade Indicators




                                               percent                                        percent
        Main destinations of exports 2003      of total    Mainorigins of imports2003         of total
                       us                       88.8                    us                     61.8
                     Canada                      1.7                  China                    5.5
                      Spain                     0.9                    Japan                   4.5
                      Japan                     0.4                  Germany                    3.7



80. Measures to advance reform in Mexico related to expansion of trade through lowered trade costs
institutedover the past decade are fundamental to address the trends outlined above. There is no standard
definition of trade facilitation in public policy discourse. In a narrow sense, trade facilitation simply
addresses the logistics of moving goods through ports or the cost of transport services to domestic firms
serving export markets.

81.   In recent years, the definition has broadened to include the overall environment in which trade
transactions take place. This includes the transparency and professionalism of customs and regulatory
environments, as well as harmonization of technical regulations to internationalnorms, and expanded use
of information technology in trade transactions, for example. The focus of trade facilitation efforts for
countries such as Mexico, therefore, is now concentrated on "inside the border" domestic policies and
institutional capacity neededto streamline trade rules and lower costs for exporters.

82.   As mentioned before, an element directly impacting trade and competitiveness is logistics costs.
The logistic concept comprises the physical flow of goods and data through the supply chain. Logistics
involves the `lprocess of planning, implementing and controlling the eficient, cost-effective flow and
storage of raw materials, in-process inventory, finished goods and related information from point of
origin to point of consumption for the purpose of conforming to customer requirement^"."^ Logistics
costs include transportation infrastructure and services (roads, ports, railways, and trucks), warehousing
and inventory financial costs, and the associatedfirm administrative costs resultingfrom the supply chain
organization.

83.   At the micro level, the reduction of logistics costs enables firms to improve their financial
performance, resultingin positive economic outcomes for the country. With better logistics performance,
a firm will be able to reduce its inventory level and costs as well as the total costs of goods delivered,


   Institutefor Supply ChainManagement.


                                                     138

allowing it to remain responsive to the client and consumers' preferences and ultimately increase its
market share. In the context of global sourcing of goods, this results in increased trade and higher-value
employment, leading to economic growth. Moreover, studies have shown that if a reduction in logistics
costs takes place, products that were unviable to produce for export could become viable after this cost
reduction. This i s likely to be the case for primary products and commodities, such as fruits and
vegetables, which are likely to be produced in poorer areas.

84. Logistic costs are particularly high in Mexico, badly affecting the country's competitiveness.
Logistics costs are a relevant component of total production and distribution costs. In Mexico they are
estimated at 20 percent, while the OECD average is 9 percent.'I6 A pilot survey of a new Logistics
Perception Index (LPI), aimed at measuring operators' perceptions of countries' logistics environments,
gives Mexico a score of 3.57 (7 being the best and 1 the worst), below other Latin American countries
like Argentina (4.46) and Brazil (3.83).II7

85.   Recent trends in international trade are making logistics a more important factor affecting a
country's competitiveness. After the decrease in tariffs following bilateral, regional and multilateral trade
agreements, countries are relying less on preferential tariffs to promote exports in the long run.
Therefore, the improvement of logistic performance (cost and quality) is progressively becoming a key
factor in countries' competitiveness. It is worth noting that increases in trade ultimately result in higher
incomes and poverty reduction; Frankel and Romer (1999) found that countries "closer" to world markets
enjoy higher levels of trade, and that a 1percent rise in the ratio of trade to GDP increases income per
person by at least 0.5 percent.

86. With the rapid integration of networked information technology, includingtelecommunications for
data flows and use of technology in the internationalvalue-chain, modem definitions of trade facilitation
now include wider application of information technology in government functions. Mexico can continue
to expand the use of information technology to lower trade costs, for example, as part of a broader
competitiveness strategy moving forward. In sum, reform in trade facilitation and logistics constitutes a
major part of the overall context of Mexico's continued expansion of productivity and growth.

Challenges
87. Based on new data in the World Bank's most recent Doing Business Report (2006), Mexico i s
ranked as number 73 of 155 countries assessed on ten businessindicators, including costs and regulations
that enhance or constrain the business investment, productivity, and growth. Mexico, as an upper-middle
income country, remains in the middle rankings of all countries surveyed. A "trading across borders"
indicator i s one of the newly added topics in the 2006 report, which compiles procedural requirements
for trading a standardized shipment of goods across national borders.
88.   When examining the detailed components associated with the trading across borders indicator, the
data in the DoingBusiness Report suggests that Mexico's performance remains at the average of all other
economies in the Latin America and Caribbean region. The numbers of documents required for export
and import are 6 and 8 respectively. The numbers of signatures for export and import are 4 and 11
respectively which indicates continued need for measures to streamline trade procedures. Considering
Mexico's geographic proximity to the United States, the time for export and import at 18 and 26 days
respectively indicates a great deal of work ahead to facilitate trade. The data for the OECD countries are
 12days on average for exports and 14 days for imports to clear borders (Table 12).


'"
`I6Guasch (2004).
   The LPIis a World Bankinitiativeimplementedwith the support of the TurkuSchool of Economicsand Business
Administration,Finland.A pilot survey was carried out in 2003.


                                                       139

89. Compared with China, which i s ranked 48 in overall trading across borders indicators, Mexico is in
the slightly better position overall - but a not significantly better performance. Mexico is more
competitive in terms of the number of signatures and days required for export, as well as documents for
import, while China i s in the better position in terms of the number of signatures and days required for
imports.

90. Compared with its NAFTA alliance partner, Canada, Mexico still has significant room to improve
in trade efficiency. For example, the number of signatures required inMexico for exports is 4, compared
with 2 in Canada and time for export is 18 days while it i s 12 days in Canada. Signatures required in
Mexico for imports total 11 while only 1 i s required in Canada. The total time for import i s 26 days
compared with 12 days in Canada. Under the assumption that the US will remain a major import and
export partner for Mexico, it is crucial for Mexico to continue to improve performance toward Canada,
considering its beneficial circumstancesunder the NAFTA alliance.

                                     Table 12: DoingBusinessTrade Indicators
                Indicator                      Mexico    LAC Region          China          Canada        OECD
      Documentsfor expon (number)                6             7                6              6            5
      Signaturesfor export (number)               4            7                7              2            3
          Time for export (days)                 18            30              20              12           12
      Documentsfor import(number)                 8            10              11              7            6
      Signatures for import (number)             11            11               8              1            3
          Time for import (days)                 26            37              23              12           14
Source: World Bank, DoingBusiness Database (http://www.doingbusiness.org/).

91. The challenges for Mexico in lowering transactions costs and facilitating trade include a number of
strategic policy goals. Further lowering and reducing the dispersion of tariff rates of protection on
imports is critical. Lowering tariffs provides a foundation for moving to address non-tariff obstacles to
Mexican firms to expand production and support export competitiveness; meanwhile, the simplification
 would make different productive chains viable."* This is particularly important given the need to
continue to diversify exports beyond oil and the major destination, which continues to be the United
 States. The U S accountedfor 88 percent of export sales in 1998-2004,up from 83 percent in 1991-97.

 92. Among the challenges to Mexico in advancing broad trade facilitation goals include; (1) lowering
 tariffs on imports for domestic firms and harmonizing import duties levels along several productive
 chains to further reduce barriers for firms in acquiring lower cost inputs for final production and to
 enhance their competitiveness, (2) expanding use of information technology in government activities
 related to imports and exports to lower trade costs for firms, and (3) and continued streamlining of
 regulatory requirements for firms, including those in the maquiladora, sector to lower trade costs.

 93. Recent empirical evidence on factors affecting trade costs and facilitation, including those in
 Mexico, generally support a focus on these specific issues within the context of a Development Policy
 Loan (DPL). For example, based on the analytical framework of trade facilitation referenced in the
 World Bank Economic Prospects 2004 report (WMO 2004), Mexico confronts challenges in reform and
 raising efficiency in its ranking among trade competitors to lower trade costs. Table 13 indicates



 'I8Currently, in some sectors it is moreprofitableto importfinal goods under preferentialtreatment, than importing
 the inputs and raw materialsto produce that same goods domestically.


                                                         140

Mexico's ranking in customs efficiency, regulatory transparency, and use of information technology in
facilitating trade.' l9


94. Moreover, Hanson and Robertson (2005, mimeo) suggest that in the 1990s import-demand
conditions in the United States and other destination markets for Mexican exports were not the dominant
factor constraining growth in Mexican exports.         120  They use a gravity model o f trade to develop a
framework for decomposing Mexico's export growth into components associated with export-supply
capacity, import-demand conditions, and other factors. The result shows weak growth in export-supply
capabilities, even duringthe 1990s expansion. The preliminary evidence suggests that internal conditions
in Mexico associated with its ability to expand export-supply capabilities-areas       directly related to trade
costs and facilitation-are    a more important factor in limiting the country's export growth than China's
expanded trade into the U.S.

                           Table 13: Mexico's Ranking on Trade-Related Indicators
                                        CustomEnvironmentand Efficiency
                              2002                                            2004


               Max(1)                Finland                     Max (1)              Iceland
             Median(38)             Malaysia                   Median(38)              China
                                     Mexico                                           Mexico
               Min(75)              Para ua                     Min (75)             Para uay

                                              Regulatory Environment
                              2002                                            2004


               Max (1)                Finland                    Max (1)              Finland
                                                                                      Mexico
                                      Nlesico                  Median(38)              Korea
               Min (75)             Venezuela                    Min (75)

                                 Informationtechnology to lower transactionscosts
                              2002


                Max (1)               Finland                    Max (1)           UnitedStates
             Median (38)              Nlesico                  Median(38)             Mexico
               Min(75)               Mauritius                   Min (75)



 95. Nicita (2005) provides a quantitative estimate o f the effect on Mexican households from the
 implementation of the Doha Development Agenda.'"              The findings suggests that multilateral trade
 liberalization i s likely not beneficial for most Mexican households unless complemented by domestic
 reforms aimed at facilitating the response o f households to these new market opportunities. The analysis
 utilizes a two step approach for which changes in prices and factors are estimated through a CGE model


    CalculatedfromWilson, Mann, Otsuki 2005. Levelsrankedfrom 1(highestranking)to 75 (lowestranking).
 120 Gordon H. Hansonand RaymondRobertson,"Booms and Busts inMexicanExports: A Gravity Frameworkfor
 EvaluatingSupply and DemandFactors" paperpresentedat the World BankSeminar, October 2005.
    AlessandroNicita, "Multilateral trade liberalizationand Mexicanhouseholds :the effectof the Dohadevelopment
 agenda", Policy ResearchWorking Paper, The World Bank, September 2005.


                                                         141

and then mapped into the welfare function of the household using household survey data. The findings
suggest that multilateral trade liberalization alone would have a small negative effect on Mexican
households. However, when the implementation of the Doha development agenda is complemented by
domestic policy reforms targeted to increasing productivity and improving domestic price transmission,
the overall effects become positive. It i s these complementary reforms to raise productivity associated
with lowering trade costs that Mexico must focus on inthe decade ahead.

96. Based on this analysis, the poor would likely share in the benefits of such trade reforms, as well.
The differences in impacts across households are more closely associated with geographic areas of
residence rather than income level. Measures aimed at enhancing domestic price transmission could
ensure that any gains from trade reform, when accompanied by productivity-enhancing policies, would
be more evenly spread throughout the country.

97. In addition, Krebs, Krishna, and Maloney (2005) examined the relationship between trade policy
and individual income risk faced by Mexican workers, in order to evaluate the welfare effect of trade
reform.'** Their result shows that trade policy changes have a significant short runimpact on income risk
for industries with high levels of import penetration. Moreover, the welfare results in this analysis do not
show that trade liberalizationis necessarily costly to undertake.

98. In other analytical work, Gonzalez and Maloney (2005) explored mechanisms through which
NAFTA related variables affect trade and foreign direct investment (FDI) flows, jobs, and migration to
the US., based on Mexican census data.'23The result shows that more exposure to FDI and also trade
deters out-migration. On average, a doubling of FDI inflows leads to a 1.5-2 percent decrease in
migration. To the extent to which Mexico can lower trade costs and streamline border regulations, one
would expect a more conducive environment to attract FDI, and therefore employment expansion and
poverty reduction throughjob creation.

99. Furtherreductions in tariffs are also important to Mexico's long-term competitiveness. Kee, Nicita
and Olarreaga (2004) estimate import demand elasticities for 4,625 imported goods in 117 countries,
based on the trade restrictiveness index (TRI), in order to study the effects of tariffs on gross domestic
product (GDP).'24 The result shows that homogeneous goods have higher elasticities, while point
estimates increase as the level of disaggregation increases, at which elasticities are estimated. With
 welfare losses at around US$7 billion per year, the United States i s the country inthe sample whose tariff
 structure imposes the largest welfare costs on its citizens. Mexico has the third largest welfare loss at
 US$2 billion with their existing tariff structure inthe overall sample.

 100. Mexico has considerable potential gains to reform in trade facilitation. Based on Wilson, Mann,
 and Otsuki (2005), the following outlines Mexico's trade gains with an improvement to the world (75
 countries) average on each TF indicator discussed above. Table 14 shows the overall trade gains
 (increase in Export  + Import) with domestic reform in four categories of trade facilitation. The largest
 increase in trade would come from domestic reforms on port eficiency and technology infrastructure in
 Mexico.




 122Tom Krebs, Pravin Krishna, William Maloney, "Trade Policy, Income Risk, and Welfare", Policy Research
 Working Paper, The World Bank, June 2005.
 123Patricio Aroca Gonzalez, William F. Maloney, "Migration, Trade, and Foreign Direct Investment in Mexico",
 Policy Research Working Paper, The World Bank, May 2005.
 124 Hiau Looi Kee, Alessandro Nicita, Marcel0 Olarreaga, "Import Demand Elasticitiesand Trade Distortions",
 Policy Research Working Paper, The World Bank, November 2004.


                                                       142

                      Port           Customs         Regulatory     Infrastructure
                    Efficiency     Environment       Environment      (technology)        Total
   ($billion)          28.8             7.8              10.1             17.7             64.3
   (percent)            9.3             2.5              3.3               5.7             20.9


101. Table 15 shows the export gains (rather than total trade gains) from domestic and partner's trade
facilitation reforms. The largest increase still comes from Port EfJiciency. However, as for export
expansion, Mexican domestic reforms in regulations would play a significant role in export expansion.

                             Table 15: Mexico's Export gains from TF Improvement
                      Port           customs           Regulatory     Infrastructure
                   Efficiency      Environment        Environment      (technology)       Total
   ($billion)         21.0              3.7               6.7               12.5           43.8
   ( percent)          14.4             2.5                4.6              8.6            30.1



102. The benefits of continued reform in trade facilitation and logistics costs reduction promise
significant expansion o f competitiveness for Mexican exporters. New analysis at the Bank suggests, for
example, that exports in the textile sector would expand by 17 percent with improved regulatory
transparency alone-reform      measures aligned with the programgoals outlined in this document.125

103. The logistic agenda covers multiple and systemic components, the internodal coordination in key
corridors being a major aspect. The challenges facing Mexico logistics performance encompass the
development of modern physical infrastructure, the improvement of logistics and transport services
regulations and institutions, and the support for private sector development as regards the organization of
the supply chain and the delivery of modern logistic services.

104. One important challenge facing Mexico i s the need to improve some key internal corridors, as
manufacturers encounter high cost to deliver their products f r o d t o the border or portdairports. Elevated
transport costs and times have also led to high inventory levels for businesses: duringthe 1990s, Mexico
had 90 percent higher raw materials inventory levels on average than the               The lack o f efficient
multi-modal transportation platform, such as logistics centers, increases the time to deliveryheceive a
product and the associated cost.

105. Customs i s another key component o f the logistics costs. Average customs transactions involves
many parties, documents and data. Administrative costs relating to customs procedures were estimated at
7 percent-10 percent of global trade'27 and Mexico i s not an exception. The lack of flexibility in working
hours and location for product clearance adds on delays and costs. The customs administration would
also benefit from a modernization of its infrastructure, including better use of information technology.

106. Manufacturing companies, especially small and medium size enterprises (SMEs) often incur higher
costs due to a lack of skills in modem supply-chain management techniques. This involves rethinking the
complete supply chain from material and services sourcing to the use o f specialized distribution



125 "Trade Facilitationand MexicanExportCompetitiveness," IsidroSoloaga and John S. Wilson, The World Bank
(in process).
126 Guaschand Kogan(2003).
12' Trade Facilitation:Behind the Border Issues. World Bank.


                                                       143

companies to deliver the end product to the client. Another factor slowing the adoption of modem
supply-chain management techniques i s the limited availability of efficient operators able to deliver
integrated logistics services.

GovernmentActions
107. The government has taken a number of actions over the past five years to lower trade costs and
address the conditions outlined above. This has taken place, in part, within the context of concern that the
opportunities of the NAFTA to stimulate development of linkages between export-oriented sectors and
the domestic economy have not been fully realized. The government has sought to implement a more
robust policy aimed at spreading the benefits o f increased market access more widely throughout the
Mexican economy - through efforts to lower trade transactions costs to facilitate exports.

108. Mexico's tariff have been harmonized and reduced on a number of products.12* Import procedures
and non-tariff technical requirements have been eliminated or streamlined under a number of programs
already in place, such as the maquiladoras and PZTEX. Comparing the first quarter of 2005 with the same
quarter o f 2004, total output of the maquila industry grew by 6.3 percent, to the maquiladora trade
balance o f US$ 10.8 billion as a proxy for value added. Along with the strong growth of jobs in the
manufacturing sector, Mexico i s becoming more closely integrated in the production and distribution
systems of U S industries.

 109. In addition, the government has acted to facilitate trade through the Programa de Zmportaci6n
Temporal para Producir Articulos de Exportaci6n (Pitex) which allows duty-free entry on temporary
imports of raw materials, parts, machinery and equipment used to manufacture exports. Action has also
been taken to further leverage the use of information technology to lower trade transactions cost for firms
through government programs to expand the use o f electronic documents for import control
requirements.

 110. For example, the government has moved to advance a system for transmission of documentation on
certificates o f origins and other technical requirements for imports into Mexico through amendments to
foreign trade rules. The SICEX (Sistema Integral de Comercio Exterior) program was established to
reduce processing time for import and export permits, including electronic transmission of certificates of
 rules of origin. Along with the U.S. and Canada, Mexico has liberalized rules of origin used to determine
 whether a good qualifies for preferential treatment. These changes will make it easier for manufacturers
 of these products to meet the NAFTA rules of origin and to qualify for duty-free treatment. It has been
 estimated that these products represent US$20billion in total trilateral trade.

 111. The government has also allocated fundingto expand information technology systems in ministries
 with responsibilities over import requirements, as part of efforts to lower trade costs for firms. Finally,
 Mexico has moved to address trade facilitation goals through participation in the World Trade
 Organization (WTO) negotiations in the Doha Agenda. The government has also strengthened its
 implementation of commitments made in the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) on trade
 facilitation to meet the goal of a five percent reduction in trade transactions costs made as part of the
 APEC action plan. According to the APEC 2004 Individual Action Plan, Mexico selected the actions and




    Through the Decreepublished by the GOM on December 30,2004 in the Diario Oficial de la Federacidn, the
 tariff levels dispersion was reduced from 14 to 8 levels.


                                                          144

measures that will be implemented by federal level in four key areas: movements of goods, mobility of
business people, standardsand conformance, and electronic commerce.129

112. In regard to customs procedures, Mexico's policy is focused on analyzing and solving specific
problems in dealing with customs operations. The Mexican Integral Automated Customs System (SAAI)
has been launched. This is an automated environment with the goal of paperless trading, incorporating
electronic signature and coordinating several agencies within an integrated information system. The
SAAI-to      be completed in several stages in which the different control agencies, "Secretadas", are
progressively incorporated into the System-includes         information exchange: payment of customs duties,
deposit certificates, cargo shipping lines manifests, temporary importation for some transport modes,
certain carrier's documents; and electronic transmission of certain government permits and certificates,
such as sanitary and phytosanitary requirements.

113. On the infrastructure side, strong efforts have been made at improving highways and border
crossing^.'^^ As regards regulations, several important steps have been taken in the last years: the
deregulation of the trucking industry in 1989, and the concessioning of ports in 1993 and railways in
1997. Ports improved their performance significantly through the implementation                         of the
Administraciones Portuarias Integrales (APIs), landlord agencies responsible for the organization of port
operations and development. The active participation of the private sector as terminal operators under
APIs administration allowed for US$ 3 billion investment in the last decade and a substantial upgrade in
operations performance. Railroads-increasingly         relevant for the trade flow with the US-received more
than US$ 2 billion since their reform, almost totally from the private con~essionaires.'~~Other relevant
projects have been a new initiative to coordinate actors in multimodal corridors launched in 2004, and
the efforts to spur private sector logistics processes, like the promotion of trucks fleet modernization and
the enhancement of SMEs logistics organization.

114. Notwithstanding these remarkable efforts, the Mexican logistics performance still presents some
considerable weaknesses. This conclusion results from recent analysis made by the government and the
private sector, in both cases concerned by a potential disadvantage of Mexico in relation to other
competitive countries. The government issued in 2003 a Diagno'stico General sobre la Plataforma
Logistica de Transporte de Carga en Mhico, and the Instituto Mexican0 de Competitividad (IMCO)
performed a complete analysis of competitiveness in 2004, with a robust chapter on logistic^.'^^ Both
confirm the needto further reduce logistic costs.




12'2004 Individual Action Plan for Mexico "Highlights on Trade Facilitation Work Mid-Term Review", available on
the APEC website www.apec.org.
130Highways modernization within the main 14 national corridors increased from 53 percent in 1999 to 70 percent in
2003.
13'For a review of the reforms in Mexico port and railroad systems check: World Bank (2005) "Mexico IPER -
Infrastructure Public Expenditure Review."
13' "Hacia unpacto de competitividad -Situacio'nde la competitividad de Mexico 2004", IMC.


                                                        145

                         ANNEX 7: THE MEXICANENERGY SECTOR

I.OVERVIEWANDCHALLENGESOFENERGY                        SECTOR INMEXICO

HydrocarbonsSector
The energy sector in Mexico has been essential to the economic strategy o f the country since the
nationalization of foreign oil companies and the creation of PEMEX in 1938. After the international oil
crisis in 1973-1974, the government decided to increase investments in oil exploration and production.
With the discovery of new oil fields duringthe early 1980s, Mexico shifted frombeing an oil importer to
becoming a net oil exporter. In 2004, Mexico ranked as the world's fifth-largest oil producer (including
crude, lease condensate, natural gas liquids, and refinery gain), behind Saudi Arabia, Russia, the US and
Iran.'33Today Mexico i s a major non-OPEC oil producer and has one of the largest oil utilities of the
world (PEMEX).

Despite the success and significant oil revenues, PEMEX i s the world's most indebted oil company, with
a net debt of about 32 billion USD (2003). Historically, the Federal government has relied on PEMEX
for about one third of its budget, with PEMEX and its subsidiaries turning over an estimated 60% of their
annual revenues to Treasury (Hacienda) for the financing of key social and infrastructure programs on
health, education and other. Both PEMEX and the national budget are therefore highly vulnerable to
fluctuations in international oil prices and other shocks affecting the oil market.

Overall, PEMEX's financial obligations to the government complicate the implementation o f a sound
program of investments and capital expenditures, which i s considered essential to sustain efficient
production levels and increase proven hydrocarbon reserves. Reforms to the institutional and fiscal
structures that link PEMEX to Hacienda as well as measures to promote private sector participation in
the industry have been proposed by several administrations. However, these proposals have found little
congressional support.

NaturalGas
Mexico has the sixth-largest natural gas reserves in the Western Hemisphere (after USA, Venezuela,
Canada, Argentina and Bolivia). Yet, over the last decade the domestic demand for natural gas has
outpaced the national production due mainly to the gradual installation/construction of natural gas based
electricity generating plants (OCGTs, CCGTs). Today, Mexico imports about 15-20 percent of its
domestic demand for natural gas from the US and it i s becoming increasingly vulnerable to price
fluctuations. The increasing dependence on natural gas imports and associated high prices has led the
Fox administration to prioritize the implementation of a strategic plan aimed at increasing domestic
natural gas production and lowering dependence on imports (Strategic Gas Plan). The plan includes the
following measures:


0   Increase natural gas production through Multiple Service Contracts
0   Diversify natural gas supply import sources and increase LNG imports
0   Reduce the flaring of associated natural gas
    Expand natural gas transport, distribution and storage facilities (strengthen interconnection capacity of
    pipeline grid with US)
0   Allocate more exploration fundingto increase proven reserves




 133Preliminaryestimates, first three quarters 2004; EIA, DOE, 2004. Mexico Country Analysis Brief.


                                                          146

Mexico's downstream natural gas market has been open to private investors since the passage of the 1995
Natural Gas Law. The constitution was modified to allow private companies to become involved in
natural gas transportation, storage, and distribution.

LiquidPetroleum Gas (LPG)
Mexico has the highest domestic and commercial consumption per capita of LPG in the world and it i s
ranked fourth in the world in terms of the volume of demand. The country's consumption has grown at
5.3% over the last decade and-due to the gradual penetration of natural gas-it        i s projected to increase
at least 3.1% per annum. More than 80% of Mexican households rely on LPG, distributed to the final
user either in portable small tanks or through tank-trucks that supply directly to stationary tanks. Today
Mexico imports about a third of LPG demand, in an international market characterized by high price
volatility. PEMEX's LPG production reports a negative growth rate of 0.55 percent per annum. The
volume of imports, which are subject to permits,134is therefore expected to increase. Since February
2003, the LPG price has been determined by a decree issued by President Fox, which will be in effect
until December 2006. Under this decree, in 2005 price increases were controlled between 0.75 and 1.75
percent per month. For 2006, prices for final users will increaseat a rate of 4 percent.

Electricity Sector
The electricity sector in Mexico is characterizedby a capacity stock that includes 8,250 M W of gas based
independent power production (IPPs), 10,268 M W of hydroelectric capacity, 22,691 MW of
thermoelectric capacity (includingfuel oil and diesel), 2,600 of coal basedpower plants, 1,365 of nuclear
capacity and 2.18 M W of wind generation for a total installed capacity of 46,137 MW as of 2005. The
nationalinterconnected systemhas about 45,000 kmof transmission and distribution lines.

Mexico has two electricity companies: Luz y Fuerza del Centro (LFyC) which serves the Mexico City
metropolitan area (roughly 5 million users) and the Federal Commission of Electricity (CFE) which
serves the rest of the country. Despite the strong technical capabilities of the Federal Electricity
Commission (CFE), one of the largest state-owned utilities in Latin America, the sector presents a
number of challenges on the technical efficiency and quality of service fronts and across segments. In
addition, as in the case of PEMEX, CFE's interdependence with Hacienda complicates the financing
structure and the decision making process regarding investments and consequently the sustainability and
future evolution of the company.

One of the most important concerns of internal and external analysts focuses on the tariff structure and
the level and design of the electricity subsidy. For instance, the residentialelectricity subsidies are highly
regressive. The upper middle income households (income deciles 6, 7, 8) receive the majority of the
consumption subsidy. Despite steady tariff increases over the past 15 years, average tariff levels do not
cover the costs of providing the service. The overall degree of cost recovery has been quite stable
averaging about two thirds of total costs in the period 1997-2003. In general, it is recognized that the
system lacks a coherent national policy framework for setting-and linking- electricity tariffs, subsidies
and cost-recovery goals. Since the early 1990s, different governments have proposed different models for
the liberalization and reform of the power sector. However, these proposals have been the source of great
political debate, public opposition and congressional rejection.




 ~     ~~    ~




`34LPG imports are subject to permitsfrom the Secretaria de Economia. Until August 2001, only PEMEX had a
permit.However, SENER and the Secretaria de Economiaissuedthe criteria for the expedition of new permits. Still,
today PEMEX is the only LPG importer.


                                                       147

11. DESCRIPTIONRELEVANT PROGRAMSANDSTRATEGIES
                    OF

Energy Sector Program
The Energy Sector Program 2001-2006 (PROSENER) defines the general policies and strategic lines of
the Fox's administration for the electricity and hydrocarbons sectors. The program rests on seven
principles which include 1) national ownership, 2) security of supply, 3) social contract, 4) sector
modernization, 5) private sector participation, 6) sustainable development, and 7) commitments to future
generation.
The program outlines the following nine strategic objectives:

    1. Ensure appropriate security-of-supply levels in a system with international quality standards,
        competitive prices and world class public and private companies.
    2. Offer a solid judicial framework to develop the energy sector, providing economic agents with
        judicial security and certainty, ensuring at the same time national ownership and State leadership.
    3. Foster the participationof Mexican enterprises in energy infrastructure projects.
    4. Increase the use of renewable energy sources and promote energy efficiency and conservation or
        savings.
    5. Use nuclear energy - and pacific applications - in a safe way maintaining the highest
        international standards.
    6. Become a sector leader inrisk prevention for productiveoperations.
    7. Become a sector leader in environmental protection.
    8. Become leaders in the generation, development, assimilation and application of scientific and
        technological knowledge, as well as on the development o f highly qualified human resources to
        promote the sustainable development of the sector.
    9. Increase and strengthen the international energy cooperation and participate in the supply and
        demand sides of global energy markets.

The PROSENER describes in detail what actions would be followed during the period 2000-20006 to
achieve the ten objectives. Specific strategies are listed in Box 5 below:

                               Box5: Prosener 2000-2006 General Strategies

          EUMINDUSTRY

      1. TransformPEMEX's industrial complexes andproductive chains intoaworld classpetroleumindustry
     2. Increase hydrocarbons reserves and establish a program of exploration-exploitation-extraction while
         protecting the environment
     3. Strengthen PEMEX's refining capacity
     4.  Ensurethe necessaryvolume of naturalgas supply at competitive prices




                                    ulation to enhance and      ement the existing regulatory




                                                      148

   12. Promote the implementation of legal and regulatory frameworks to increase the certainty of public and
      private investments in order to guarantee the expansion of the electricity sectors as needed

ELECTRICITY INDUSTRY

   1. Promote the liberalization of the sector
  2. Promote a State policy that a) redefines and distributes subsidies tar             g the poor, b) supports
       generators that protect the environment, c) supports rural electrification projects
  3. Adopt labor best practices to achieve better coordination between workers, managers, and users
  4.   Extend the electricity service to areas with highpoverty levels
  5. Promote a change inthe fiscal regime of electric enterprises
   6.  Provide legal certainty to participants in the sector and contribute to ensure State ownership and
       management
  7. Promote the development electric and thermal self-supply projects in both the social and private
       sectors, particularly inthe industrial sector and the government
   8.  Develop programs, projects and actions to exploit renewable energy sources
  9. Develop programs, projects and actions to promote energy savings
   10. Maintain and improve the technical capacity of human resources and materials to ensure security of
               and radioactive installations
               legal and feasible technological solutions to the problem of radioactive waste
   12. Strenghtenthejudicial framework of the nuclear industry
   13. Maintain and strengthen the LagunaVerde Emergencies Plan of External R


 ENERALTO THEENERGY SECTOR




   3.  Strengthenthe security, quality and safeguardprocessesof energy installations
   4.  Strengthenthe regulatory framework to increase industrial safety across the sector
   5.  Develop an energy sector environmental policy
   6. Maintain and strengthen apolicy of cleaner fuels
             ve regulatory compliance associatedwith environmental practices and protection
            ote socially sustainableprojects




            rcesin the energy sector




                                                        149

Programof InvestmentsElectricitySector (POISE)
The Federal Commission of Electricity (CFE) prepares every year a prospective ten year program of
works and investments for the electricity sector (known as POISE). This program i s used to negotiate the
annual CFE budget with Hacienda for congress approval. The POISE program integrates security-of-
supply and diversification policies considering least cost economic and financial considerations. The
program i s based on a number of models used internationally to plan the evolution of electricity sectors.
CFE has also developed its own domestic models to simulate scenarios and the future composition of the
capacity stock.

Programof InvestmentsNaturalGas Sector
The Mexican Petroleum Company PEMEX also prepares every year a ten year program of works and
investments. The program includes an in-depth analysis o f the dynamics of international natural gas
markets as well as an evaluation o f the demand and supply sides o f the domestic market. The program
place special emphasis in natural gas savings, energy efficiency, cogeneration and other considerations.

EnergyRegulatoryCommission(CRE)
In 1993, the GOM created by decree the CRE as an advisory body on gas and electricity issues. In
October 1995, the Energy Regulatory Commission Act (LCRE) transformed CRE into an autonomous
agency in charge o f regulatingthe natural gas and electricity industry.The CRE has a budget determined
by S E E R and SHCP and has technical and operational autonomy. However, despite the number of key
tasks entrusted to CRE,'35the commission does not have the authority to establish tariffs nor attributions
for regulating the efficiency and performance of incumbent utilities (i.e. PEMEX,CFE). As o f today, the
CRE has not been vested with enough independent authority to define the rules for market operations, set
tariffs and regulate natural monopolies. However, the CRE does have authority to establish natural gas
tariffs.

FederalCommissionfor RegulatoryImprovement(COFEMER)
With the reforms to the Administrative Procedures Federal Law in May 2000, COFEMER was created as
an autonomous body of the Ministry of Economy. The COFEMER mandate includes the review of the
federal regulatory framework, the evaluation of regulatory practices and the promotion of regulatory
improvement and sound reforms across sectors. COFEMER's mission i s two fold: ensure transparency in
the regulatory process and ensure the balance between regulatory costs and benefits. The commission
uses four important instruments to conduct its activities: a) a Federal Registry o f Formalities and
Services (RFTS), b) Collaborative Agreements with States and Municipalities and the Accelerated
Business Start Up System (SARE), c) Regulatory Impact Analyses (RIAs) and d) Regulatory Reform
Programs (PMRs).




 135CRE is empowered to perform the following tasks: a) Participate in the setting of tariffs for wholesale and final
 sale of electricity, b) Issue permits to generate electricity under the schemes allowed by the Electricity Law, c)
Review and approve the criteria for determining fees related to public electricity service, d) verify that entities
responsible for the public electricity service purchase electricity at lowest cost and offer optimum stability, quality,
 and safety of electricity service, e) approve the methodologies for calculating payments for the purchase of electricity
 used inpublic service, and f) approve the methodologies for calculatingpayments for electricity transmission,
 transformation and delivery services. Inthe natural gas sector, CRE is empowered to grant permits for transportation,
 storage, and distribution of natural gas and LPG pipe transportation and distribution; approve tariffs and issue the
 methodology to determine rates for those services, and issue first hand sale price methodology of natural gas and
 LPG.


                                                              150

COFEMERAgreement
On August 11, 2005, the Federal Official Diary (DOF) published the COFEMER agreement that
establishes the rules to present programs associated with regulatory improvement across sectors and
decentralized government bodies of the Federal Public Administration. For the energy sector the
agreement establishes the actions includedin Box 6.

                                 Box 6: COFEMER Agreement August 11,2001
                                NationalCompetitivenessAgenda, Energy Sector

SENER with the support of COFEMER and in close coordination with CRE, will conductthe following activities:

  I.ModifytheregulatorvframeworkoftheElectricitvLaw(LSPEE)withregardstoeconomictransfersonnew
       connections. Industries requesting the electricity service have to provide CFE with economic transfers
       (uportuciones) to compensate for embedded costs associated with line extensions and other works. New
      measures clearly define rules for the imposition of economic fees or transfers.
 11. Perform independent transparent regulatorv accounting of electricity tariffs and other works and services,
      based on best internationalpractice. This measure will disclose the economic and operative performance of
       each of the plants that compose the generatingstock as well as the fixed and variable costs associated with
       the transmissionand distribution segments.
 111. Implement transuarencv measures and public disclosure (rendicion de cuentas) focused on State owned
       electricity enterurises and subsidiaries (CFE, LFC). These include the disclosure of a) dispatch rules and
       operations, b) short and long run marginal costs and c) managerial, economic and quality of service
       indicators (among others) to SENER, SHCP and CRE.
 Iv.



 V.
       supplv oDtions. This measure will support private sector initiatives for self-supply and facilitate tht

 VI.

       manufacturingof diverseproducts.
VII. Derived from the actions and outcomes of previous activities I-VI, SENER will determine the need to
       prepare proposalsfor the modification of the reeulatorv framework of the Electricity Law (LSPEE) and the




CRE is in charge of regulatory accounting for the natural gas sector. Currently, it is not in charge of
regulatory accounting for the electricity sector, but it could be if a new CRE law i s passed. In particular,
the COFEMER agreement sets the basis for a number of unprecedented actions including the
implementation and oversight of a transparent tariff policy in the electricity sector.

111. KEY ISSUESCOMPETITIVENESS
                      RELATED     TO


0  The contribution of energy costs to the total production costs of manufacturing industry products (as
   an aggregate) i s 10.5 percent. This i s comparable to labor costs, which are in the range of 4 - 15
   percent.
0  For energy intensive industries (such as cement, glass, steel, aluminum and others), energy costs
   represent between 8 and 60 percent. InMexico, 30-40 percent of total production costs o f the cement
   industryrepresent expenditures in electricity and fuels.


                                                          151

   The quality and price of the products from energy-intensive industries are of fundamental importance,
   as they are used as raw materials in the manufacturing of diverse other products. For instance, the
   price of cement in Mexico i s about two times the price in the US, the European Union and other
   countries around the world.

   In contrast with other OECD and developed countries, the prices of electricity, natural gas, fuel oil
   and other fuels have gradually and substantially increased over the last decade. The prices of fuels and
   electricity in Mexico are among the highest of the world.

   Steady increases in energy prices have had serious effects on the costs of production across different
   industries. In the manufacturing sector (which i s not necessarily energy intensive), the average costs
   of energy as a percentage o f total production costs increased by 2.25 percent points over the period
   1995-2002.

   The quality of the electricity service i s poor compared to other countries. The quality o f the electricity
   service delivery has important effects on the competitiveness o f companies. For instance, service
   interruptions and voltage fluctuations affect the overall productivity levels of industries and prevent
   the installation of modem electronic equipment which requires robust service delivery.

   Over the last five years there has been a steady fall in the number o f energy-intensive processing
   facilities. This has been largely attributed not only to the increasing costs o f energy, but to the
   uncertainty levels regarding availability of natural gas and other fuels.


Effects of Energy Prices on Production Costs and Competitiveness

The energy sector i s of high strategic importance to the economies of both developed and developing
countries. Given the importance of electricity and hydrocarbons in the economy, the uncertainty
associated with energy prices and availability as well as the quality o f service have direct effects on the
modernization and competitiveness of all productive activities. The economies that achieved a secure
supply of fuels and electricity as well as competitive prices, exhibited high levels of economic
development and consequently an increase in their level of competitiveness (Figure 35).

            Figure 35: Relationship between per Capita Energy Consumption and Competitiveness




            sc       0          10           20       3 0        40         50        ti0           7c
                                                    Competitiveness
           Source: IMDWorld Year Book 2004.




                                                      152

The energy intensive industrial sub-sectors are particularly vulnerable to volatility in prices and
uncertainty of availability. The cost of energy as a percentage o f total production costs for these types o f
industries i s particularly high (see Table 16below).

The quality and price o f the products from energy-intensive industries are of fundamental importance, as
they are used as raw materials in the manufacturing of diverse other products. For instance, the price o f
cement in Mexico i s about two times the price in the US, the European Union and other countries around
the world (115 USD/ton, Data 2004).

Steady increases in energy prices have had serious effects on the costs of production across different
industries. As shown in Figure 36, in the manufacturing sector (which i s not necessarily energy
intensive), the average cost o f energy as a percentage of total production costs increased by 2.25 percent
points over the period 1995-2002.

Infact, the manufacturingsector is not only affected by energy prices, but also by the higherprice of raw
materials produced by energy-intensive industries and the quality o f service delivery, especially in
electricity.



                      Industry                     Percent (%)                    Source

          DATA FOR MEXICO




                                Figure 36: Costs of Energy (Electricity and Fuel)
                     Percentage of Total Production Costs, Manufacturing Industry, Mexico



                       10

                       9 -

                       8 -

                       1 -

                       6 -

                       5 1



                       Source: INEGI.



                                                      153

Over the last five years, there has been a steady fall in the number o f processing facilities, which in
Mexico are often energy intensive (Figure 37). This has been largely attributed not only to the increasing
costs of energy, but to the uncertainty levels regarding availability of natural gas and other fuels
(Arizmendi, 2005).


                            Figure 37: Reduction in Processing FacilitiesinMexico'36
             l%,W        DK 00




                 scpoo             % p a              *.a2              %rn              3m-M              rs*os
    Note: IMSS is the Mexican Social Security Institute (Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social)
    Source: INEGI.

The studies and surveys conducted by the Center for Studies on Competitiveness (CEC-ITAM) to
analyze the state and prospects of different industries - including mining, electronics and vehicle parts-
have concluded that the highs costs of fuel oil, natural gas, diesel and electricity as well as the low
quality of infrastructure services are factors that contribute to lower their economic efficiency and
prospects for growth and competitiveness (CEC, 2004).

Evolution and Level of Energy Tar@s in Mexico

NaturalGas
Natural gas prices have increased substantially over the last decade (Figure 38). In fact, Mexico faces one
of the highest tariffs for natural gas imports in the world (Figure 39). On September 12", 2005, with the
high prices exhibited in the South of United States (Houston Ship Channel Index) after the Katrina
hurricane, the President of Mexico issued an emergency program that capped the price o f natural gas at
7.65 USDMBTU for that month (more than 30% lower than the prices exhibited at the time). The
intention of the President was to "protect families and the competitiveness o f the productive industrial
sector" (Diario Ojkial de la Federacidn, September 12, 2005).137




 136Reduccidn establecimientos de industria de transformacidn: Patronesregistrados en el IMSS industria de
transformacidn (INEGI, 2005).
 `37According to the Decree (31darticle), the natural gas reference price in Reynosa, Tamaulipas was established at
7.65 USDMMBtufor September 2005. In the following months, the reference price will be calculated as the
reference price in Reynosaregistered in August 2005 (7.253 USDMMBTu),plus the difference between the
monthly marketreference price minusthe reference price in August, multiplied by a factor of 0.21. The previous
calculation is subject to a minimumprice of 7.253 USMMBtu.


                                                           154

Not only are natural gas prices high in Mexico, but they are volatile, even relative to non-producing
countries. The price situation is not likely to improve, as natural gas imports from the United States have
gradually increased and are expected to continue growing within the next decade.


                       Figure 38: Reference Price Natural Gas Mexico (USDIMBTU)

               $14
               $13

               $12
               $11

               $10

                $9

                $8

                $7

                $6
                $5

                $4

                $3

                $2

                $1
                    1995 1996  1997 19%   1909  2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 ene05- Sep-M Oct-C5 Jan-06
                                                                         ag005


                Source: PEMEX,NYMEX


                                    Figure 39: Natural Gas Prices, 2003




                              Prorliicers                     Praclncersbarge ltnporters Non-Producers
Source:PEMEX,World Gas Intelligence,ANP, EIA, InsideFERC's, consumers greater thanSmmpcd.




                                                     155

   Fuel Oil (Combustoleo)
   The price of fuel oil has also increasedover time. Infact, it rose from about $1/ MBtuin January 1999to
   nearly $6 / MBtu in July 2005. Comparing the average 1998-1999 price to the average January-August
   2005 price yields an increase of 183 percent (Figure 40).


                                  Figure 40: Fuel Oil Average Prices (USD/ MBtu)




              Jan-    Jul-   Jan-  Jul-     Jan- Jut-   Jan-  Jul-   Jan- Jul-    Jan-  Jul-  Jan-   Jul-
                99     99      00   00       01  01      02    02     03  03      04     04    05    05
             * January - August 2005 average versus 1998-1999 average.
             Source: Gerencia de Politicas y Desarrollo Comercial / PEMEX Refinacih.



   Electricity
   Electricity tariffs in Mexico have increased 77 percent since 1998, compared with only 14 percent in the
   U.S (Figure 41). And commercial tariffs are among the highest inthe world. Indeed, average commercial
   tariffs inMexico are 80 percent higher than the U.S. average (Figure 42).

Figure 41: Electricity Prices (USDC /
               kWh)                                   Figure 42: Commercial tariffs, 2000 (USD cts./kWh)
                                        1 5 0

                                        1 2 5

                                        1 0 0

                                         7 5

                                         5 0

                                         2 5

                                         O D




3
   98 99 00 01 02 03 04

Source: Various national energy         Sources: US.Department of Energy; CFE.
commissions.




                                                          156

When equivalent consumption levels (in terms of capacity factor, tension, and type of service) are
compared across regions, Mexicans pay higher rates across the board (Table 17).




      H T - L (large)        20-60%     90-130%     10-60%       140%        n.d.       2%     236%
      HS-L (medium)          25-50%     27-70%      21-50%         n.d.    106%        19%       n.d.
      H-M(small)             30-60%          n.d.    5-45%         n.d.      86%       21%       n.d.
      0-M(small)               5-40%         n.d.    5-30%         n.d.      63%       22%       n.d.




Quality of Electricity Service in Mexico

The quality of the electricity service delivery has important effects on the competitiveness of companies.
For instance, service interruptions and voltage fluctuations affect the overall productivity levels o f
industries and prevent the installation of modem electronic equipment which requires robust service
delivery (Arizmendi 2005).

                         Table 18: Quality of Electrical Service, 1995-2003(IPER)




                       -Notavailable.
                       Sources: Dataprovided by CFE's Subdireccih de Control
                       Financiero,and LFC's Subdireccidnde Finanzas.

According to official data, the quality of electricity services has improved (Table 18). Customer
interruptions caused by operating events and customer complaints declined, while connection time
decreased for both the National Electric Company (Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad, CFE) and Luz y
Fuerza del Centro (LFC). However, when annual interruptions are compared with Latin American
privatizeddistribution companies, the performance o f CFE i s poor (Figure 43).




                                                     157

                          Figure 43: Annual Interruptions (minutes) per Connection (IPER)


                  250   -


                  200   -


                   1% -                                                                       -4-CFE
                                                                                                1PeruEdelnm



                   100  -


                     5#
                          L        *

                      e,
                         1995    1996 1997 1998             19%      2OQo     2001 2002 2903
                 Sources: CFT financial data; and Andres, Foster, and Guasch (2005), as shown in the IPER.

In Mexico, high costs are compounded by fluctuations in frequency and voltage. The result is effective
costs that are 10-60percent higher than those o f US.counterparts (Figure 44). Companies also face other
barriers associated with the electricity service in Mexico: difficulty in obtaining permits for self-
generation and co-generation, high connection costs for self-generating units or new connections to the
grid, and others.


                        Figure 44: Cost and Quality Comparisons, Mexican vs. U.S. Companies
                          Variation in Voltage                                              Variation in Frequency
                                                    Real UD to 33%                                            Contract2%

                    CFE                                                               G=E

                        =
               I\Epcsw       +/- 3 5%

              Rdia-t-HIP     +/- 5%



                     -
       mnmurgnaFbvs         Less than +/- 3%



                          Cost of Electricity
                             UScents I kWh

                                      5 1 (HS-L)  10-60%extracost due to failures
                 CR


             AEFGSW                           3 6 (IndustrialAverage Tx Ok y La)


            @llant-w                          3 9 (HS-L)

        QidimFtwer&
            m                                    386-412 (HS-L)

        CmnmVirgnla
            b e r                             3 94 (HS-L)


         Source: Informationfrom US.electric companies; information from users in the U.S.and Mexico.




                                                                         158

Macroeconomic Effects

Subsidies for infrastructure services absorb significant public resources in Mexico and encourage
inefficient resource use. For example, subsidies (for operations and consumption) in the electricity sector
amount to about 1.1 percent of GDP (Table 19). Tariffs for commercial and industrial users are set near
levels allowing full recovery of the cost of supplying these consumers. However, average residential and
agricultural tariffs covered only 42 percent and 28 percent of cost, respectively, during 1997-2003.

                              Table 19: Estimateof Subsidies for Electricity, 2003




      Other Subsidres (LFC
      operationand FALS)                                                      73.9              O.35Qb



      Note: FAIS is a fund to support social infrastructure.
      Source: Bank staff calculations from electricity sector report (Samaniego-Breach, 2005).

Residential electricity subsidies are highly regressive: Upper middle income households (income deciles
6, 7, and S), receive the majority of the consumption subsidy. The electricity subsidies also go mostly to
the regions that are already more economically developed. The vast majority of the subsidy-over 90
percent-is    not a lifeline for the poor and encourages inefficiency, especially in the hot areas in the
summer, which benefit from highly subsidized rates. Poverty criteria are absent in the determination of
regional electricity tariffs, unlike in water, where some municipalities set lower tariffs in poorer
neighborhoods.13'



IV. SOURCES

     1. Instituto Mexican0 de la Competitividad (IMCO), 2004. Situacidn de la Competitividad en
         Mexico 2004. Grupo Impresores Unidos, SA de CV, Mexico.
    2. World Competitiveness Center (IMD), World Competitiveness Yearbook 2004, www.imd.ch
     3. Energy InformationAdministration, Department of Energy (DOE), USA. www,eia.doe.gov
    4. Commission for EnvironmentalCooperation (CEC); 2003. Energy Use in the CementZndustry in
         North America: Emissions, Waste Generation and Pollution Control, 1990-2001. 2ndNorth
         American Symposium on Assessingthe EnvironmentalEffects of Trade.
     5. Consejo de Coordinadores Empresarial (CCE), 2004. "Reformas energdticas necesarias para
         apoyar el crecimiento y el progreso nacional con base en un desarrollo sustentable, promoviendo
         el desarrollo regional, social y la diversificacibn econbmica. Electricidad y Gas Natural (versibn
         larga)." PowerPoint presentation. August.
     6. Consejo de Coordinadores Empresarial (CCE), 2005. "Propuesta para impulsar la seguridad y
         competitividad Energ6tica de Mdxico con base en un desarrollo sustentable, promoviendo el


 13*World Bank (2005), IPER


                                                          159

       desarrollo regional, social y la diversificacih econ6mica: Acciones responsabilidad de
       Ejecutivo." PowerPoint presentation. February.
   7. Consejo de Coordinadores Empresarial (CCE), 2005. "Situacih energdticos e impacto."
       PowerPoint presentation. October.
   8. Andres, Luis,Foster, Vivien and Guasch, Jose Luis.2005. "The Impact of Privatizationon Firms
       inthe Infrastructure Sector inLatinAmerican countries." Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
   9. World Bank, 2004. Mexico Public Expenditure Review, Volume I and II. Main Report,
       Washington, D.C.
   10. Centro de Estudios de Competitividad. 2004. El Sector Minero en Mexico: Diagnostico,
       Prospectiva y Estrategia, ITAM, Mexico.
    11. Centro de Estudios de Competitividad. 2004. El Sector de Autopartes en Mexico: Diagnostico,
       Prospectiva y Estrategia, ITAM, Mexico.
    12. Centro de Estudios de Competitividad. 2004. La Industria Electronica en Mexico: Diagnostico,
        Prospectiva y Estrategia, ITAM, Mexico.
    13. Mussa, Michael. 2000. The Impact of Higher Oil Prices on the Global Economy, International
       Monetary Fund(IMF),Washington DC.
    14. Aspe, Pedro. 2004. Impacto del Sector Energetic0 en el Desarrollo Economic0 del Pais con
        Vision de Corto y Largo Plazos, in Situacion de la Competitividad en Mexico, Instituto
        Mexicano para la Competitividad, Mexico.
    15. Boyd, Roy; Uri Noel. 1997. An Evaluation of the Economic Effects of Higher Energy Prices in
        Mexico, Energy Policy Journal, Vol. 25, No. 2, pp 205-215.
    16. World Bank. 2005. Mexico: Infrastructure Public Expenditure Review (PER). Report No.
        33483-MX.


Interviews:


0  Arizmendi, Nelson. October 2005. Presidente de la Comision de Energeticos, Confederacidn de
   Camaras Industriales.
0  Newell, Roberto, October 2005. Instituto Mexicano de Competitividad, Mexico.
0  Abdel, Guillermo, October 2005. Centro de Estudios de Competitividad, ITAM, Mexico.
0  Lelo de la Rea, Francisco, October 2005. Centro de Estudios Economicos Sector Privado, Mexico.




                                                  160

                                  ANNEX 8: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE

On November 9, 2005, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the
Article IV consultation with Mexico.'39

Background

The economic recovery that began in mid-2003 has continued, though at a slower pace in 2005. A broad-
based expansion of economic activity in 2004, driven by a rebound of private consumption and private
investment, took growth up to 4.4 percent. The economic recovery was accompanied by a boost to
confidence, capacity utilization, and formal employment. In the first semester of 2005, growth slowed to
2.8 percent, reflecting several sector-specific developments, including a soft patch in US. industrial
production. The most recent indicators point to a strengthening of activity inthe third quarter of this year.

After rising through November 2004, inflation has come down significantly in 2005, approaching the
Bank of Mexico's 3 percent inflation target. The 12-month headline inflation rate peaked at 5.4 percent in
November 2004, but has declined thereafter, to 3.1 percent in the first half of October 2005. Core
inflation also has come down, to 3.2 percent.

After tightening monetary policy since early 2004, the Bank of Mexico (BoM) signaled an end to its
monetary tightening cycle in June 2005, and began to reverse that tightening in August. The firming of
monetary conditions in this cycle was substantial-with          the overnight interbank interest rate risingfrom
less than 5 percent in early 2004 to 9 74 percent by spring 2005. Since August, rates have come down to 9
percent, as the BoM has signaled 25 basis point cuts in the desired floor interest rate, in each of August,
September, and October. From early 2004, the BoM has taken a number of steps to enhance its
communication with markets, including signaling a desired minimum level of interest rates-yet
maintainingthe corto instrument (the borrowed reserves objective).

The fiscal accounts improved in 2004 on the strength of rising oil revenues and restraint of current
expenditures. The authorities achieved their target for the traditional deficit, 0.3 percent of GDP, and the
broadly-defined deficit (the augmented deficit) narrowed to 2 percent of GDP, from 3.1 percent in 2003.
Rising oil revenue helped finance an increase in capital expenditure, particularly in the oil sector. Gross
public debt declined to 46.5percent of GDP, in part through the write-off of some of the bank
restructuring debt.

In2005, oil revenues are rising again, but their impact on the broader deficit is being more than offset by
a deterioration in the non-oil fiscal balance. Staff project that the traditional deficit will narrow slightly,
to 0.2 percent of GDP in 2005, while the augmenteddeficit widens to 2.3 percent of GDP. Oil income for
the year is projected to be up by about ?hpercentage point of GDP from 2004 (and about 1 percentage
point over budget projections). It i s expected that almost all of this unbudgeted revenue will go to
compensate for shortfalls in non-oil revenue, and toward transfers for additional investment spending by
PEMEX and the states, as implied by the budget law, with a small part going to the oil stabilization fund
and reduction of the traditional budget deficit.


13'Under Article IV of the IMFsArticles of Agreement, the IMFholds bilateral discussions with members, usually
every year. A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusses with officials
the country's economic developments and policies. On return to headquarters,the staff prepares a report, which
forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Managing Director,
as Chairman of the Board, summarizes the views of Executive Directors, and this summary is transmitted to the
country's authorities.


                                                          161

The external current account deficit has remained modest, with a continued rise in oil exports and
household remittances compensating for some widening of the non-oil trade deficit. With the recovery o f
economic activity in 2004 and 2005, imports of investment and especially consumer goods grew strongly,
while weak auto exports to the U.S., and enhanced competition from China and other countries, slowed
non-oil exports.

Mexican financial markets have recently performed strongly, as have other emerging markets. Sovereign
bond spreads have continued to decline, recently to less than 150 basis points. At end-October, the stock
market was up more than 75 percent (in domestic currency terms) since end-2003, with much o f that gain
coming since April of this year. The peso also has tended to strengthen this year though giving up some
o f its gains since August. The BoMhas continued to abstain from market purchases of foreign exchange,
but rising foreign exchange receipts from the state-owned oil company have pushed NIR upward. NIR
reached US$61 billion by end 2004, about 4% months o f Mexico's imports and 1.6 times its short-term
external liabilities; at October 28, 2005, NIR was US$62.3 billion.

The authorities have taken further steps to strengthen the public finances. The average maturity o f the
domestic debt o f the federal government was extended to 3.1 years by June 2005, up from 2.6 years in
early 2004. Exposure to currency depreciation has declined further as the public sector's annual foreign
exchange earnings from oil now exceed US$30 billion, against interest payments on its foreign debt o f
US$9 billion. Furthermore, at mid-year the authorities announced that the federal government had
accumulated enough foreign currency liquidity to allow it to forego any external bond issues through
2007.

Executive BoardAssessment

Executive Directors commended the Mexican authorities for the improvements they had made in
economic policies, institutions and structures over the last decade, which have contributed to greater
macroeconomic stability and reduced financial vulnerability. Fiscal policy has earned broad credibility,
with a track record o f achieving the annual deficit targets, and a prudent monetary policy has established
a low-inflation environment. A series of reforms has strengthened the financial sector and boosted its
development. Directors welcomed that economic policy making i s taking place in a setting of greater
inclusiveness and transparency in government. The challenge ahead will be to launch a new round o f
structural reforms that will enhance the economy's efficiency and competitiveness and ensure the
transition to a more rapid growth path, while entrenching the considerable progress that has already been
made in economic policy design and implementation.

Concerning fiscal policy, Directors commended the authorities for achieving declining annual targets for
the fiscal deficit, reducing the public debt ratio, and improving the debt structure, and they encouraged
them to continue their efforts. At the same time, Directors noted that the overall fiscal balance has been
benefiting increasingly from rising world oil prices, and that a reversal of oil prices could complicate
fiscal policy if expenditures could not be reduced quickly. Most Directors urged the authorities to avoid a
further widening of the non-oil fiscal deficit in 2006. A few Directors recommended monitoring closely
the increase in spending by the state governments.

Directors supported Mexico's intention to implement a medium-term budget framework, with the
objectives of reducing public debt further, strengthening the public finances, limiting vulnerability to oil
revenue fluctuations, and allocating resources efficiently to essential investments, especially in the oil
and social sectors. Noting the important share of oil revenues in total government revenues, Directors
also encouraged the authorities to take measures over the medium term to strengthen the tax system and


                                                     162

broaden its base, including by bringingmore of the economy into the formal sector. Directors considered
that the current high oil prices make it more important than ever to ensure that the operations and
investments of the state-owned oil company (PEMEX)are effective.

Directors agreed that the monetary tightening of 2004 and early 2005 had been necessary to contain the
rise in inflation and reverse inflation expectations. They were reassured that headline and core inflation
are now close to the 3 percent target. With inflation expectations also moving down in recent months, the
improved inflation outlook has allowed the Bank of Mexico to begin gradually loosening its policy
stance. Directors recommended that the Bank continue to proceed cautiously in this direction, noting that
inflation expectations have not yet converged to the 3 percent inflation target.

Directors welcomed the changes in the operational framework of monetary policy since early 2004. The
Bank of Mexico's steps to refocus and sharpen its policy statements, provide an indication of its estimate
o f inflation for the current year, and shift toward defining policy changes through signalling a minimum
level of interest rates have enhanced communication and the market's understanding o f monetary policy
objectives. Some Directors suggested that the authorities make public inflation forecasts for both the
current year and a somewhat longer horizon, and adopt fully and explicitly an interest rate policy
instrument.

Directors considered that Mexico has been well served by its floating exchange rate regime. External
competitiveness appears to be broadly adequate at present, as reflected in the sustainable balance of
payments position.

Directors welcomed the considerable progress made in strengthening and reforming the financial sector
and capital markets and reducing potential vulnerabilities, setting the stage for an environment conducive
to economic growth. Commercial banks appear to be well capitalized, profitable, and provisioned against
nonperforming loans. Directors were encouraged that bank credit has begun to expand after a long period
of stagnation. They noted the efforts to further enhance financial sector supervision.

Directors expressed disappointment with the slow pace of structural reforms in recent years in spite o f
the authorities' commitment to move forward in this area. At the same time, they supported the
authorities' emphasis on implementing small-scale reforms to improve structural competitiveness in
specific sectors. Nevertheless, Directors emphasized that to confront Mexico's external competitiveness,
productivity, and growth challenges effectively in the future, more thoroughgoing structural reforms will
be indispensable, including in the energy and telecommunications sectors, the labor market, the judicial
system, the tax system, and the regulatory and business environment. In that light, Directors were
encouraged that there i s a growing popular understanding of the need to implement an ambitious
structural reform agenda. They advised the authorities to continue to stand ready to move ahead quickly
to implement these reforms at the appropriate juncture.




                                                      163

                             Mexico: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators 1/
 (Annual percentagechanges, unless otherwise                2000        ZOO1        2002         2003        2004
indicated)
National accounts and prices
Real GDP                                                      6.6         0.0          0.8         1.4          4.4
Real GDP per capita 2/                                        5.1        -1.5        -0.7         0.0            2.9
Gross domestic investment (inpercent of GDP)                 23.7        20.9        20.6        20.6         21.7
Gross national savings (in percent of GDP)                   20.5        18.0        18.6         19.2        20.7
Consumer price index (end period)                             9.0         4.4          5.7         4.0           5.2

Externalsector
Exports, f.0.b. 3/                                           21.5         -3.1         0.6         3.9         13.8
Imports, f.0.b. 4/                                           23.1         -1.7        -1.3         1.9         15.8
External current account balance (in percent of              -3.2         -2.8        -2.1        -1.3         -1.1
GDP)
Change in net international reserves (end of period,           2.8         7.3         7.1         9.5           4.1
billions of U.S. dollars)
Outstanding external debt (in percent of GDP)                28.3        26.1        25.2         25.9         23.5
Total debt service ratio 5/                                  44.8        38.3        29.9         31.1         31.5
(inpercent of exports of goods, services, and
transfers)

Nonfinancial public sector (in percent of GDP)
Augmented overall balance                                     -3.7        -3.6        -3.4        -3.1          -2.0
Traditional overall balance                                   -1.1        -0.7        -1.2        -0.6          -0.3
Gross augmentedpublic sector debt                            49.3        47.9        49.7         50.0         46.5
Net augmentedpublic sector debt                              42.2        41.7        43.6         44.0         41.2

Money and credit
Monetary base                                                10.7          8.0        17.0        15.0          12.0
Broad money (M4a)                                            12.9         16.0        10.8        13.5          12.6
Treasury bill rate (28-day cetes, in percent, annual         15.3         11.2         7.1          6.2          6.8
 average)

 Sources: National Institute of Statistics and Geography; Bank of Mexico; and Ministry of Finance and Public
 Credit; and IMFstaff estimates.
 1/Methodological differences mean that the figures inthis table may differ from those published by the authorities.
 2/ Fund staff estimates.
 3/ Exports net of maquila sector imports.
 4/ Excludes maquila sector imports.
 5/ Public and private sectors.




                                                          164

                                      ANNEX 9: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
                                       Mexico at a dance                                                                           1/11/06


                                                                     Latin      Upper-                                                    I
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                America      middle-
                                                         Mexico   & Carib.      income     Development diamond'
2004
Population, mid-year(millions)                             103.8      541          576
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                         6,790     3,600        4,770                  Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                                                               T
                                                           704.9     1,948        2,748

Average annual growth, 1998-04
Population (%)                                                1.4       1.4         0.8
Laborforce (%)                                                2.5      0.9         -0.9     GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                            per                                   primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                       capita                              enrollment
Poverty (% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)             18
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                         75        77           72                                                   I
Lrleexpectancy at birth (years)                               74        71           69                         1
Infant mortality (per 1,000livebirths)                        23        28           24
Childmalnutrition(% of childrenunder51                          8                                 Accessto improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)           91        89           93
Llteracy (% of populationage 151)                             92        89           91
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)          110       123          106        -Mexico
   Male                                                      111       126          108           -   UDoer-middle-incomearoup
   Female                                                    110       122          106

KEYECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1984      1994     2003          2004      Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                175.6    421.7     639.1        676.5
Gross capitalformatiodGDP                          19.9      21.9     20.6         21 3
Exportsof goodsand servicedGDP                     17.4      16.6     27.8         30 1                       Trade
Gross domestic savingdGDP                          27.7      17.1     19.0         19.9
Gross nationalsavingdGDP                           22.7      14.9     19.3         20.8                         T
Current account balance/GDP                         2.4      -7.0      -1.3         -1 1
Interest paymentdGDP                                6.4       2.1       1.8          1.6     Domestic                          Capital

Total debtlGDP                                     54.0      32.9     25.4         24.6      savings                           formation

Total debt service/exports                         45.1      25.7     17.6         15.0
Presentvalue of debt/GDP
Present value of debtlexports
                                                                                                          Indebtedness
                                      1984-94   1994-04     2003     2004       2004-08
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       2.7       3 3       1.4       4.4          3.0         -Mexico
GDP per capita                            0 8        1.8     -0.1       2.9          1.6               Uooer-middle-incomeorom
Exportsof goods and services              6 0       9.6       2.7     11.5           3.6


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)                                         1984      1994    2003          2004    I''
                                                                                            Growth of capitaland GDP(%)                   1
Agriculture                                         9.4       6.0       3.9          4.1
Industry                                           34.9      26.8     25.8          26.4    'O
  Manufacturing                                    22.7      18.7      18.0         18.1     5
Services                                           55.7      67.2     70.3          69.5

Householdfinal consumption expenditure             63.1      71.4     68.6          68.5    -5
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure          9.2      11.5      12.4         11.7              -GCF             ' O ' G D P



                                                1984-94  1994-04     2003          2004
 (average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                         0.8       1.9       3.5          4.0
 Industry                                           3.3       3.3      -0.2          3.8
   Manufacturing                                     3.5      3.6      -1.3          3.8
Services                                            2.7       3.3       1.9          4.6

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure               3.6       3.7       2.3          5.5
Generalgov'tfinal consumptionexpenditure             2.2      1.2       0.8         -1.2
Gross capital formation                              5.6      4.8      -4.2          1.5
 Importsof goods and services                      14.8      10.6       0.7         10.2


Note: 2004 dataare preliminaryestimates.
  The diamonds showfour key indicatorsinthe country (in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage.If data are missing, the diamondwill
   be incomplete.




                                                                   165

                                                                                                                       Mexico

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                               1984    1994    2003     2004                                                    I
Domestic prices                                                                 Inflation ("A)
Ish change)                                                                     20                                              I
                                                                                  T

Consumer prices                                65.4     7.0      4.5     4.7
Implicit GDP deflator                          59.1      8.5     8.5     6.1

Government finance
Ish of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                31.2    22.7    23.2     23.2              99     MI     01      02     03
Current budget balance                         -1.2      3.3     2.2     3.1
Overall surplusideficit                                                                  --"*-GDP   deflator
                                               -6.4    -0.3     -0.7     -0.3                                 .-o'CPI


TRADE
                                               1984    1994    2003     2004                                                    I
(US$millions)                                                                   Export and import levels (US$ mill.)            c
Total exports (fob)                          29,100  60,882  164,787 188,036
  Oil                                        16,601   7,445   18,602  23,667
  Agriculture                                 1,461   2,678   5,036    5,684
  Manufactures                               10,499  50,402  140,632 157,747
Total imports (cif)                          15,916  79,346  170,546 196,810
  Food
  Fuel and energy
                                                                                                                                I
  Capital goods                               2,573  13,322   20,205  22,597

Export price index (2000=100)                   114      90      105     112              98   99    W     01     02   03

Import price index (2000=100)                    77      93      103     108                     Exports        Blmports    O4
Terms of trade (2000=100)                       148      97      102     103

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                               1984    1994    2003     2004
(US$ millions)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP ("A)
Exports of goods and services                33,926  71,184  177,299 201,911
Imports of goods and services                21,028  91,616  187,680 215,372
Resource balance                              12,898 -20,432 -10,380  -13,460

Net income                                   .10,076 -13,012 -12,082  -10,938
Net current transfers                          1,361  3,782   13,858   17,044

Current account balance                       4,183  -29,662  -8,604   -7,355

Financing items (net)                         -2,034  12,463  16,437   11,416
Changes in net reserves                       -2,149  17,199  -9,833   -4,061

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$millions)          7,355   6,300  59,027   64,204
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                 0.2     3.4    10.8     11.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                                                                                 I
                                               1984    1994    2003      2004
 (US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2004 debt (USS mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed          94,830 138,545 162,163  166,169
   IBRD                                        2,852  13,038  10,717    9,567
   IDA                                             0       0       0        0                    G 3.900A 3,567

Total debt service                            16,960  20,076  34,279   33,568
   IBRD                                          485   1,989   1,972    2,499
   IDA                                             0       0       0        0
Composition of net resourceflows
   Official grants                                27      47
   Official creditors                            832    -583    -372     -182
   Private creditors                             791   5,296    -418     1,578                                                   I
   Foreign direct investment (net inflows)       390  10,973  12,625   17,377
    Portfolio equity (net inflows)                 0   4.084                                     F 137,332
 World Bank program
   Commitments                                   576   2,380     888      621     A - IBRD                          E Bilateral
    Disbursements                                682     942   1,258      767     B IDA
                                                                                    -         D -Othermultilateral  F Private
                                                                                                                     --
    Principal repayments                         253   1,065   1,359     1,976   IC-IMF                             G- Short-term
    Net flows                                    430    -123     -101   -1,209
    Interest payments                            233     924      613     524
    Net transfers                                197  -1,046     -714   -1,733


 Development Economics                                                                                                    1/11/06




                                                             166

      '9
      r?




0I
E
EE

                ANNEX 11: STATEMENT OFIFC'S HELDAND DISBURSEDPORTFOLIO


                            Statement of IFC'5 Committedand Outstanding Portfolio
                                                  4mounts in cisPo&r Mli!ons
Country. Fdexlco                            Accounting Data As #f A331t2005                                             Page1




                            3 57        5         Ll        0       U          0     3 6'          0         U      .;          D
                           e * a        3         C         5       D          C    1)33           0         0      i 0
                                B    2 55         C         E       0          0        w     2 55           0      0           0
                                0    ow           D         0       a          0         3     0 DO          0                  0
                            315         D         0         R       a          O     3.25          0         Q       c           0
                           $4 M         5         0         0                  0    14EO           a         0       0           D
                                 D  20 30         0         0       0          0         0     a 08          a       0           0
                                 0   0 87         a         3       D          D         B     0 07          U       c           D
                             1 0 0   0 86         0     15 E3       a          0      1 GD      D 68     15 83       c           U
                           2   aa        0        0         a       0          0    zia8           0         U       u           0
                            4 c4     300          a         0       5          0     4 B4       3 OD         0       c           U
                           21 Ea        0         D         P       0          0         0         C         U       0           D
                           $4' 17        5        5         D       c          0    18 1'          Q         0       0           0
                            4 00         0     ea 24        0       D          C     2 00          a         D       c           a
                             3 et        3        0         0       0          0      3 ad         a         O       CI          0
                           $538      0 i 0        0         5       0          D         0         0         0       c           0
                                 C   3 14         D         0        0         0         e         C         D       3           0
                            4 e4     3 35          0        D        0      464      4 194      3 00         C       c       464
                           aai           D         0        C        0         0    4781           3         0       0           0
                             a I 1       5         0        D        D     2? 2Q      B t f        0         3       3     17?Q
                           2: 71         0     w T  i       D        0      34 20    251s          0         0       3      34 28
                                ta       0         0    58 42        0           D       w         0     I C 01      0           0
                           25 32     6 00          0        0     344        t a:   25 33       G DO         D  :'2           167
                                 0    D E          D        3        0           O       r;m    0 32         D       c           0
                             13 40       0         5        3        D           n    o <a         0         0       D           n
                                 D   4 T?    $0   oa        D;                                                       F
                                                                  + ea           0              177          Q                   0

                             4 50        5         0        D        0       148      4 ?e'        0          0      0        i4%
                                 0    865          0        Q        O           0       5      a as         0                   U
                                 0   15m           C        3        0           O        0    I 5 DO         0      a           0
                                 D   0 01          5        5        5           0        0     R 01          0      c           0
                           4305          D   23 on          0     2 00     IO7 25    48 05          D         0    0 71    I C 1 15
                           25 44         n         0        D        D      54?E     25 44          D         0      G       54 JB
                                 0       0      1 30        0        5           0        0         0         0       D           D
                                 D    D En         0        E        U           0               0 60         0      .:           0
                                 a       Q     902          D        e           0        $3        0         0       c           0
                           2340          D         a        D        0      35 20    2540           D         a       i 3520
                                 C    am           0        0        D           0        0      B R9         0                   D
                             :3a         5         C        0        D           O    5 ZY          3         0       0           0
                                 a    2 15         0        0        0           D        0      zt5          U       0           0
                             2 75        0         0        0        D           D    u75           a         0       c           D
                                 U    Dm       3.50         3        O           0        0      D no         11      0           3
                           44 E          a         0        0        0      48 $3    *as            D         0       0      49 83
                           45 ea         n         e        a        0           0   45 00          0         0       c           0
                           at e$         0         0        U        D      38 02    31 BI)         O         0       ea     Ma?
                             t3T      1 52         C        o        0       554       5 37      152          C       0        5 %
                           ai 24         D         a        D        a           a   98 24          Q         0       c           0
                              t ra       3      3 l e       0        c       4 08      113          a         0       c        406
                                 U       5         a      3 03       a           0        0         D         a       D           0
                           32 72         5         U        3        O           0         3        U         0       c           U
                           44 75         D   20   m         D      .zw     i5?35     48 75          0         D    1 4 1   1F;&35
                                 C    7 5-2        0        D        0           U         0     B D5         0       E           D
                                 U    1 BB         0        0        c           0         0     18%          0       f           n




                                                              168

                                              REFERENCES

APEC 2004 Individual Action Plan for Mexico "Highlights on Trade FacilitationWork Mid-TermReview".
        (www.apec-iaporg).

Aspe, Pedro (2004). "Impacto del Sector Energetic0 en el DesarrolloEcon6micodel Pais con Visi6n de
        Corto y Largo Plazos." Situacidn de la Competitividad en Mexico, InstitutoMexican0 para la
        Competitividad, Mexico.

Barro, R. J., and J. Lee (2000). International Data on Educational Attainment: Updatesand Implications.
        NBER Working Paperno. 7911. National Bureau of Economic Research,Cambridge, MA.

Batra, G. and Tan, H.(2002) "UpgradingWork Force Skills to Create High-Performing Firms."Chapter 6 in
        BuildingCompetitive Firms:Incentives andCapabilities. World Bank.

Castafieda Sabido, Alejandro (2003). Infrastructure and ManufacturingGrowth, ElColegio de Mexico.

Centro de Estudios Econdmicos del Sector Privado (CEESP) (2005). "Encuesta Sobre Gobernabilidady
        Desarrollo Empresarial."

Cohen, W.M. and D.A.Levinthal(1990), "Absorptive Capacity: A New Perspective on Learningand
        Innovation." Administrative Science Quarterly, 35(l),  128-152.

CONACYT (2004), Informe General del Estado de la Ciencia y Tecnologia, Mexico.

CONEVyT-OCDE (2003). Educaci6n de Adultos y Formaci6n para el Trabajo en Mexico: Informe Base.

Correa, P., SgnchezGarcia, I. H.Singh (2005), Research, Innovation and Productivity: FirmLevel
                               and
        Analysis for Brazil, mimeo.

Cotis, Jean Philippe (2005). "Economic Policy Reforms: Going for Growth and the Case of Mexico." Chief
        Economist. OECD.

Crepon, B., E. Duguet and J. Mairesse (1998), "Research, Innovationand Productivity: An Econometric
        Analysis at the FirmLevel," NBER Working Paper 6696.

Dahlman, C. and Y. Kuznetsov (2005), "Mexico's Challenge of Knowledge-based Competitiveness: Toward
        a Second-GenerationNAFTA Agenda, World Bank Institute.

De Ferranti, Davidet al. (2003), Closing the Gaps in Education and Technology, World Bank, Washington,
        DC.

De Ferranti, David, Guillermo Perry, Indennit Fil, J. Luis Guasch, William Maloney, Carolina SQnchex
        PAramo, Norbert Schady (2003). Closing the Gap in Education and Technology.Washington, DC:
        World Bank.

De Ferranti, David, Guillermo Perry, Daniel Lederman, and William Maloney (2002). Natural Resources to
        the KnowledgeEconomy.Washington, DC: World Bank.

Dollar, D.and E.N.Wolf (1997), "Convergence of IndustryLabor Productivity among Advanced
        Economies, 1963-1982," in E.N.Wolff, ed., The Economics of Productivity, United Kingdom:
        Elgar.

                                                      169

Economist IntelligenceUnit (2005). Country Profile Mexico. (www.eiu.com).

Economist IntelligenceUnit (2005). Country Report Mexico. (www.eiu.com).

Escribano, A. and J.L. Guasch (2005a), "Assessing the Impact of the Investment Climate on Productivity
       UsingFirm-Level Data. Methodology andthe Cases of Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua,"
       Policy ResearchWorking Paper 3621, The World Bank, Washington D.C.

Escribano, A. and J.L. Guasch (2005b), "Investment Climate Assessment on Productivity and Wages:
       Analysis Based on FirmLevel Data from Selected South East Asian Countries," mimeo.

Faal, Ebrima (2005). "GDPGrowth, Potential Output, and Output Gaps inMexico." IMFWorking Paper
        0593. Washington, DC: IMF.

Flores Lima, Roberto. (2004) "Evaluacih de 10s Programasde Apoyo a las Micro, Pequeiiasy Medianas
        Empresas(MIPYMES)en MCxico."

Forbes, N.and D.Wield, (2000), "Managing R&D inTechnology Followers", ResearchPolicy, 29, 1095-
        1109.

Gallagher, Kevin (2004). Free Tradeand the Environment: Mexico, NAFTA, and Beyond. Stanford, CA:
        Stanford University Press.

Gallagher (2005). "FDI and EnvironmentalPerformance: Evidence from Mexico's Silicon Valley."

Gill, I. and Sant'Anna, A. (2003). "Mexico: TechnicalEducation andTraining: Issues and Options." (in
       S.
        two volumes). World Bank. Report No. 27506-M. December 23.

Global Competition Review (2003).Volume 6, Issue 6, June.

Gonzalez, Patricio A., Maloney, William F. (2005). "Migration, Trade, and Foreign Direct Investment in
        Mexico". Policy ResearchWorking Paper.The World Bank.

Government of Mexico (2004). Agenda de Competitividad: 2004-2006. Memorhdum Ejecutivo (Borrador
        de Trabajo). April 14.

Griffith, R., Redding, S. and J. Van Reenen(2003), "R&D andAbsorptive Capacity: FromTheory to Data",
        Institutefor Fiscal Studies, WP 01/03, London.

Griliches, Z. (1979), "Issues in Assessing the Contribution of R&D to Productivity Growth." Bell Journal of
        Economics, 10,92-I 16.

Guasch, Jose L.(2004), Logistics as a Competitive Factor inLatin America.

Guasch and Kogan (2003). Just-in-Case Inventories: A Cross-Country Analysis. World Bank Policy
        ResearchWorking PaperNo. 3012. Washington, DC: World Bank.

Hall, Robert, and Charles I. (1999). "Why do Some Countries Produce So Much More Output Per
                             Jones
         Worker Than Others?" Quarterly Journal ofEconomics 114 (1) 83-116.



                                                     170

Hanson, Gordon H. and Robertson, Raymond (2005). "Booms and Busts in Mexican Exports: A Gravity
        Framework for Evaluating Supply and Demand Factors" paper presented at the World Bank
        Seminar, October 2005.

Hausmann,Ricardo, Dani Rodrik, and Andres Velasco (2004). "Growth Diagnostics." Cambridge, MA.

InstitutoMexicano para la Competitividad(IMCO) (2005a). Situaci6n de la Competitividad de Mkxico
        2004: hacia unpacto de competitividad. Mexico: IMCO.

Instituto Mexicano para la Competitividad (IMCO) (2005b). "Situacibn competitivade MCxico."
        Powerpoint presentation. September.

Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank (IDB) (2004). Good Jobs Wanted: Labor Markets in Latin America.
        Economic and Social Progress Report. Washington, DC: IDB.

Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank (2001). Loan ME-0233 US$300 m. "Programa Multifase de Apoyo a
        Capacitacion y Empleo. Fase I."

Jones and Williams (1998), "Measuring the Social Return to R&D," Quarterly Journal of Economics,
        November. 1119-35.

Kee, Hiau Looi, Nicita, Alessandro, Olarreaga, Marcel0 (2005). "Import Demand Elasticities and Trade
        Distortions", Policy ResearchWorking Paper. The World Bank.

Krebs, Tom; Krishna, Pravin; Maloney, William (2005). "Trade policy, income risk, and welfare", Policy
        ResearchWorking Paper. The World Bank.

Latinobarometer. Various years. Latin American Public Opinion Survey. Corporacih Latinobarbmetro,
        Santiago.

Lederman, Daniel and William Maloney (2003). R&D and Development. World Bank Policy Research
        Working Paper 3024. Washington, DC: World Bank.

Lederman, Daniel, William Maloney, and Luis Serven (2003). Lessonsfrom NAFTAfor Latin American and
         Caribbean Countries: A Summary of ResearchFindings. Washington, DC: World Bank.

Lederman D.and L.Saenz (2003), "Innovation around the World: a Cross-Country Data Base of Innovation
        Indicators," mimeo, The World Bank, Washington D.C.

Limao, Nuno and Anthony Venables (2001). "Infrastructure, Geographical Disadvantage, Transport Costs,
        and Trade." WorldBank Economic Review v15, n3: 451-79.

Loayza, Norman, Pablo Fajnzylber, and C6sar Calderbn (2005). Economic Growth in Latin America:
        StylizedFacts, Explanations, and Forecasts. Washington DC: World Bank.

Loof, H.and A. Heshmati. (2001), "On the Relationshipbetween Innovation and Performance: A Sensitivity
        Analysis." Working Paper Series inEconomics and Finance, 0446, Stockholm School of Economics.

Loser, Claudio (2005). "Education Key to Economic Development in Latin America." Inter-American
        Dialogue's Latin America Advisor. November 9.
         http://www.thedialogue.org/publications/oped/nov05/loser~1109.pdf


                                                   171

Mani, Muthukamara, and David Wheeler (1998). "InSearch of Pollution Havens?Dirty Industry inthe
        World Economy, 1960-1995." Journal of Environment and Development, Vol. 7, No. 3, September,
        215-247.

Martinez Espinoza, E.(2003). "Chile: Experiences in a market-oriented training system." International
        Labour Organization. Country Studies Chile. October 23.

Nicita, Alessandro (2005). "Multilateral trade liberalization and Mexican households :the effect of the Doha
        development agenda", Policy ResearchWorking Paper. The World Bank.

Nicoletti and Scarpetta (2003). "Regulation, Productivity, and Growth, OECD Evidence." World Bank
        Policy ResearchWorking Paper.

Nicoletti and Scarpetta(2004). "Product Market Reforms: Macro Linkages and Effects on Growth, A Partial
        Survey."

OECD. "Regulatory Policies inOECD Countries: FromInterventionismto Regulatory Governance."

OECD (1999). "Background Report on the Role of CompetitionPolicy inRegulatory Reform, in OECD,
        Regulatory ReforminMexico."

OECD (2004). "Competition Law and Policy in Mexico: An OECD Peer Review."

OECD (2004). "Mexico, Progress in ImplementingRegulatory Reform." OECD Reviews of Regulatory
        Reform.

OECD (2005). Science, Technology, and Industry Scoreboard.Paris: OECD.

Pavitt, K.(2001), "Public Policies to Support Basic Research:What can the Rest of the World Learn from
        US Theory and Practice?(and What They Should not Learn)," Industrial and Corporate Change, 10,
        3, 761-779.

Prescott, E.C. (1998) "Needed: A Theory of Total Factor Productivity", InternationalEconomic Review, 39,
        525-552.

Ramsey, G., Carnoiy, M.and Woodburne, G. (2000). "Learning to Work: A Review of the Colegio
        Nacional de Educacion ProfesionalTecnica and the Sistemade Universidades Tecnologicas of
        Mexico. July. Stanford University.

Romo, D. (ZOOS), "Politica Tecnol6gica e Innovaci6n en MCxico. Evaluacibn, Analisis y Perspectivas,"
        mimeo, Mexico.

Schmelkes, S. and Karlman, J. (1996). "La Educaci6n de Adultos: Estado del Arte. Hacia Una Estrategia
        Alfabetizadota para MCxico." MCxico: INEA.

Soubbotina, Tatyana (2005). "The Challenge of Technological Learning for Developing Countries." Draft.
        Washington, DC: World Bank.

Tan, H.and Lopez-Acevedo, G. (2004a). "How Well do SMEPrograms Work? Evaluating Mexico's SME
        Progreams UsingPanel FirmData." Green Cover Draft, September 20. Washington, DC: World
        Bank.


                                                       172

Tan, H.andLopez-Acevedo, G. (2004b). "EvaluatingSME TrainingPrograms: Some Lessonsfrom
       Mexico'sCIMO Program."April 15.Washington, DC: World Bank.

U.S.InternationalTrade Commission(2005).LogisticsServices:An Overviewof the GlobalMarket and
       PotentialEffects of RemovingTrade Impediments.Washington, DC: USITC.

Wilson, John.S., Catherine L. Mann and Tsunehiro Otsuki (2005). "Assessing the Benefits of Trade
       Facilitation: A GlobalPerspective". The WorldEconomy June 2005 - Vol. 28 Issue6. 841-871.

World Bank (2000).Mexico Export Dynamics and Productivity: Analysis of Mexican Manufacturing in the
       1990s. ReportNo. 19864-ME.Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank (2003). Mexico Constraints to Competitiveness:Results of Focus Group Discussionswith
       Entrepreneurs.Washington, DC: World Bank.Mimeo.

World Bank (2004a). WorldDevelopment Report 2005: A Better Investment Climatefor Everyone. New
       York: Oxford University Press.

World Bank (2004b). "How Well Do SME Programs Work? Evaluating Mexico's SME Programs Using
       PanelFirmData." Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank (2004~).La pobreza en Mhico: una evaluacio'n de las condiciones, las tendencias y la
       estrategia del Gobierno.Washington DC: World Bank.

World Bank (2004d).Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group inPartnership with the United
       MexicanStates. Report No. 28141-ME.April 15,2004.

World Bank (2004e).M X LifelongLearningProjectDraft Report. August 18,2004.

World Bank (20040. Mexico Public ExpenditureReview. Report No: 27894-MX. Washington, DC: World
       Bank.

World Bank (2005a).Doing Business in 2005: Creating Jobs. Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank (2005b). "DR-CAFTA: Challenges and Opportunitiesfor Central America." Washington, DC:
       World Bank.

World Bank (200%). "Mexico's Challenge of Knowledge-based Competitiveness: Toward a Second-
       GenerationNAFTAAgenda." Report No. 29920-ME.Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank (2005d). Mexico: InfrastructurePublic ExpenditureReview (PER). ReportNo. 33483-MX.

World Bank (2005). Mexico's ICT and Telecommunications Sector: Challenges and Opportunities.
       WashingtonDC: World Bank.

World Economic Forum(2005). Global Competitiveness Report 2005-2006.Geneva, Switzerland:WEF.

World Economic Forum, with Center for International Development and Institute for Strategy and
       Competitiveness. 2001. The Global Competitiveness Report 2001-2002. New York and Oxford:
       OxfordUniversityPress.



                                                  173


                     To
                 Los Angeles             115W                                          110W                                    105W                                 100W                                   95W                            90W                           85W
                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                       Albuquerque

                                                                           To                                                  To
                                                                      Gila Bend                                                Alamogordo

               Tijuana
                           Mexicali                                                                                                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
               Ensanada
                                                     Sonoita

                                      San                                                                              Ciudad Jurez                    To
                                   Felipe                                                                                                               Midland
                                                                        Nogales
                                  BAJA              G                                      Agua
                                                                                           Prieta                                                                                                                                            MEXICO
                            CALIFORNIA                                                                                 Rio Brav o
                                                                                                                         RioGrande                            To                                                                                                                    30N
              30N                                   ulf                                                                                                      San Antonio


                                                          of                   SONORA Yaqui             C H I H U A H U A                                                                        To
                                                                                                                              Ojinaga                                                            San Antonio

                                                             C   Hermosillo                                                                                                                       To



                                                                                 Guaymas
                                                           Santa                           M
                                                         Rosalia                                                Conch os                             Sierra ado
                                                                                                                                                         Sal




                                                     BAJA       a l i f o r n i a    Sierra                                                                                                     Houston
                                                                                                         Chihuahua




                                                                                                                                                                       Laredo
                                                                                   Navojoa   adre                                                                  A
                                              CALIFORNIA                                                Fuert                                   C O A HMU I LFrontera
                                                      SUR                                         O           e

                                                                 Loreto                                                                                             NUEVO

                                                                                    Los Mochis                                                               adre     LEON                                               Gulf of Mexico                                             25N
              25N                                                                                  ccidenta                                                                                     Matamoros
                                                                                                                                     Torren
                                                                                                                                     Torren                               Monterrey
                                                                                                                                                           Saltllo
                                                                                                                                                           Saltllo

                                                                                                Culiacn
                                                                                                Culiacn
                       PACIFIC                                                                            S I Nl                                                   O

                                                                                   La Paz                              D U R A N G O
                                                                                                                                                                                   TAMAULIPAS
                                                                                                                         Durango
                        OCEAN                                                                                   A L O A                     ZACATECAS               riental           Ciudad
                                                                                                                                                                                      Victria
                                                                                                                                                                                      Victria
                                                                                                        Mazatln
                                                                                                        Mazatln
                                                                Cabo San Lucas
                                                                                                                                         Zacatecas              SAN LUIS
                                                                                         AGUASCALIENTES                                                          POTOSI                        Tampico       QUERTARO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             QUERTARO
                                                                                                                                                                     San Luis
                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                        NAYARITLeAguascalientes                       Potos
                                                                                                                                                                     Potos                                                                                       YUCATAN        Cancun
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                              Tepic      rma                                                   VERACRUZ                                                Merida
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                 GUANAJUATO                                                       Guanajuato                                  HIDALGO
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                      110W                                                                                                                                                                                         Cozumel
                                                                                                             PuertoVallerta                     Guadalajara                Quertaro
                                                                                                                                                                           Quertaro                            DISTRITO FEDERAL

                                                                                                                                  JALISCO                                                  Pachuca                 TLAXCALA                  Campeche
                               MEXICO                                                         20N                                                                                                                                                                  QUINTANA
                                                                                                     MEXICO                                                             MEXICO
                                                                                                                                                         Morelia                                       Jalapa
                                                                                                                                                                             CITY                                         Bay of Campeche                              ROO
                                                                                                                                                                                               Tlaxcala        Veracruz
                                                                                                                                   Colima                              Toluca                                                                                            Chetumal
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Citlaltpetl (5,747 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Citlaltpetl
                                                                                                                                 COLIMA                              Cuernavaca
                                                                                                                                                MICHOACAN                                   Puebla                                                CAMPECHE
                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                              PUEBLA                               TABASCO
                                                                                                                                                                           Ba lsa s                                                     Villahermosa                            Gulf of
                                     STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                              GUERRERO           Chilpancingo                                                                       BELIZE Honduras
                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                           Oaxaca                                 CHIAPAS  Usumacinta
                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                        Acapulco      S i e r r aM a d r e     OAXACA                     Tuxtla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gutierrez
                                     MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                       d e l  S u r   Tehuantepec
                                                                                                                                                                   MORELOS                       Puerto
NOVEMBER                             RAILROADS                                                               0       100        200    300 Kilometers                                        Escondido                     Gulf of              GUATEMALA                           15N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tehuantepec                                     HONDURAS         IBRD
                                     STATE BOUNDARIES                                         15N                                                                                                                                  Tapachula                 To
                                                                                                             0      50     100    150   200 Miles                                                                                                         San Salvador
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EL                   33447
        2004                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                              105W                                       100W                                          95W                                       SALVADOR

