                                Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00001060




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IBRD-73670)




                                    ON A

                                   LOAN

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300.76 MILLION

                                  TO THE

                      THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                   FOR A

               FIRST PROGRAMMATIC COMPETITIVENESS

                       DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN




                                April 17, 2009




Finance and Private Sector Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective as of April 17, 2009)

                 Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (MXP)
                       MXP1.00 = US$ 0.0765876
                        US$1.00 = 13.0569 MXN

                              FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 ­ December 31



               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA       Analytic and Advisory Activities
AGA       General Customs Administration (Administración General de Aduanas)
API       Integral Port Administration (Administraciones Portuarias Integrales)
AVANCE    Program of High Value Added in Businesses with Knowledge and Businessmen
          (Programa de Alto Valor Agregado en Negocios con Conocimiento y
          Empresarios)
CEROR     Certificates of origin
CFC       Federal Competition Commission (Comisión Federal de Competencia)
CFE       Federal Electricity Commission (Comisión Federal de Electricidad)
CIMO      Comprehensive Quality and Modernization Program (Calidad Integral y
          Modernización)
CIPI      Intersecretarial Industrial Policy Commission (Comisión Intersecretarial de
          Política Industrial)
COFEMER   Federal Regulatory Improvement Commission (Comisión Federal de Mejora
          Regulatoria)
COMPITE   National Productivity and Technological Innovation Comity (Comite Nacional de
          Productividad e Innovacion Tecnologica.
CONACYT   National Science and Technology Council (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y
          Tecnología)
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
CRE       Energy Regulatory Commission (Comisión Reguladora de Energía)
DOF       Official Newspaper (Diario Oficial de la Federación)
DPL       Development Policy Loan
FY        Fiscal Year
GCI       Global Competitiveness Index
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GNI       Gross National Income
GOM       Government of Mexico
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA       Investment Climate Assessment
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IMCO      Mexican Competitiveness Institute (Instituto Mexicano para la Competitividad)
IMMEX     Unified temporary import regime (formerly Maquiladora and PITEX)

INEA       National Institute of Adult Education (Instituto Nacional de Educación para los
           Adultos)
LAC        Latin America and Caribbean Countries
LDP        Letter of Development Policy
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFTA      North American Free Trade Agreement
NOMs       Official Mexican Norms (Normas Oficiales Mexicanas)
OECD       Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAC        Training Support Program (Programa de Apoyo a la Capacitación)
PFP       Federal Preventive Policy
PGR        General Attorney (Procuraduría General de la República)
PEMEX      Mexican Petroleum (Petroleos Mexicanos)
PITEX      Temporary Import Program to Produce Articles for Export (Programa de
           Importación Temporal para Producir Artículos de Exportación)
PROFECO    Federal Consumer Protection Agency (Procuradería Federal del Consumidor)
PROSEC     Sectoral Promotion Programs (Programas de Promoción Sectorial)
PROSENER   Energy Sector Program 2001-2006 (Programa Sectorial de Energía 2001-2006)
R&D        Research and Development
RBP        Regulatory Betterment Program
RIA        Regulatory Impact Assessment
SAAI       Integral Automated Customs System (Sistema Automatizado Aduanero Integral)
SAGARPA    Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries and Food
           (Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentación)
SARE       Rapid Business Opening System (Sistema de Apertura Rápida de Empresas)
SE         Secretariat of Economy (Secretaría de Economía)
SEDENA     Secretariat of National Defense
SEMARNAT   Secretariat of the Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaría de Medio
           Ambiente y Recursos Naturales)
SENER     Secretariat of Energy (Secretaría de Energía)
SFP       Secretariat of Civil Service (Secretaría de Función Pública)
SHCP      Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito
           Público)
SME       Small and medium enterprise
SICEX     Comprehensive Foreign Trade System (Sistema Integral de Comercio Exterior)
SNI       National Researchers System (Sistema Nacional de Investigadores)
S&T        Science and Technology
STPS      Secretariat of Labor and Social Security (Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión
           Social)
TA        Technical assistance
USD        United States Dollars
WEF       World Economic Forum


                         Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                      Country Director:    Axel van Trotsenburg
                       Sector Manager:     Lily L. Chu
                     Task Team Leader:     Jose L. Guasch
                    ICR Team Leaders:      Mike Goldberg/Mariluz Cortés

                                               MEXICO
         First Programmatic Competitiveness Development Policy Loan

                                             CONTENTS


 Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................... 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.......................................................... 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned......................................................................................................... 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............ 23
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............... 24
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................... 26
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...................... 27
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................ 30
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 31
Annex 7. Bank-Supported Matrix................................................................................. 32
Annex 8. Indicators for Bank-Supported Competitiveness Program.......................... 35

A. Basic Information

                                                                      MX Competitiveness
Country:               Mexico                  Program Name:
                                                                      DPL
Program ID:            P098299                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-73670
ICR Date:              04/17/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    DPL                     Borrower:              MEXICO
Original Total
                       USD 300.8M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 300.8M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Secretariat of Economy
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/20/2005    Effectiveness:                          07/18/2006
Appraisal:             01/13/2006    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/14/2006    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:               06/30/2006       07/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:      Moderately Satisfactory Government:                 Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Moderately        Implementing
                            Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                           Borrower
Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory Overall
                                               Performance:                Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)              Rating:

Potential Problem
                                               Quality at Entry
Program at any time      No                                         None
                                               (QEA):
(Yes/No):



                                              i

Problem Program at any                        Quality of
                          No                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                           10               10
Central government administration                             10               10
General energy sector                                         20               20
General industry and trade sector                             50               50
Ports, waterways and shipping                                 10               10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Export development and competitiveness                       Primary         Primary
Other accountability/anti-corruption                       Secondary        Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                            Primary         Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                        Secondary        Secondary
Trade facilitation and market access                         Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                      Pamela Cox
Country Director:         Axel van Trotsenburg            Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:           Lily L. Chu                     Susan G. Goldmark
Program Team Leader:      Jose L. Guasch                  Jose L. Guasch
ICR Team Leader:          Michael J. Goldberg
ICR Primary Author:       Mariluz Cortes-Gorman



F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Project development objectives are: (a) Build on past competitiveness efforts, strengthen
new and existing programs, and promote a holistic, cross-governmental approach to
improving productivity in order to accelerate growth and increase export and
employment levels; and (b) Contribute to the formulation of a medium-to-long term
competitiveness policy agenda and help lay a solid foundation of competitiveness
programs in advance of the next administration, which takes office in December 2006.



                                             ii

Specifically, the DPL aims to improve the competitiveness of Mexico's economy through
the following channels: (1) Promote technological innovation; (2) Improve training and
education levels of the workforce; (3) Reduce the cost of doing business; (4) Facilitate
new business entry; (5) Strengthen economic competition; (6) Streamline trade
procedures and lower trade costs; (7) Facilitate customs clearance; (8) Improve the
quality of port services; (9) Implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments
for the energy sector.

  Note. The original outcome indicators were set with the plan of having a second DPL
so, the target date of 12/2009 is later than the end date of 12/2008 for this ICR. Also, the
program document (PD) has three sets of outcome indicators which do not fully match:
the Bank Supported Matrix in page 91, Indicators for Bank-Supported Competitiveness
Program in page 89, and the Government Program Matrix in page 100. For this ICR we
decided to use the Bank Supported Matrix. In addition, the indicators in the PD do not
differentiate between PDO indicators and intermediate indicators. For the ICR we made a
distinction between 9 PDO indicators and 15 intermediate indicators based on the nature
of each indicator, including a new PDO indicator (6) which was not in the PD for the
objective of Strengthening Economic Competition.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target  Formally        Actual Value

    Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from     Revised        Achieved at
                                              approval        Target       Completion or
                                              documents)      Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :     Promote Technological Innovation: Total R&D spending as a percentage of
                  GDP
Value
(quantitative or  0.46%                   0.55%                          0.53%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005              12/31/2008                     12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Promote Technological Innovation: Private R&D as a percent of total R&D
Value
(quantitative or  38%                      42%                           43%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005              12/31/2008                     12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          According to CONACYT the percentage of private R&D was expected to

achievement)      increase to 48.6% of total R&D by end 2008.




                                               iii

Indicator 3 :    Promote Technological Innovation: Number of technology based projects that
                 attract private investment (cumulative) under CONACYT's program.
Value
(quantitative or 70                        160                               268
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004               12/31/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         The number of projects under the Subprogram Fondo Emprendedores

achievement)     surpassed the target outcome.

Indicator 4 :    Reduce the cost of doing business: Percentage of regulations issued by
                 regulatory agencies with COFEMER's evaluation.
Value
(quantitative or 50%                       70%                               100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         100% met. All draft regulation proposals issued by regulatory agencies are

achievement)     submitted for COFEMER"s assessment and approval before they are issued.

Indicator 5 :    Facilitate new business entry: Average time to open a business in
                 municipalities that implement the SARE (days).
Value
(quantitative or 52 (before SARE)         3                                   3
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004               12/31/2008                          06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %         Time required to open a MIPYME with low risk to health and environment

achievement)     maximum of 48 hours. Other firms 72 hours.

Indicator 6 :    Strengthen economic competition: Improve Mexico's ranking and score in
                 Goods Market Efficiency Indicator in the Global Competitive Index.
                 Mexico ranks 48th in                          Improve        Mexico ranks 73rd
Value            goods markets                                 (lower)        among 134
(quantitative or efficiency among 122                          Mexico's       countries and
Qualitative)     countries, and scores                         ranking and    scores 4.1 in a scale
                 4.3 in a scale of 1 to 7                      increase score of 1 to 7
Date achieved    12/31/2005                                    12/31/2008     12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         Efficiency of goods markets has deteriorated despite efforts against

achievement)     monopolistic practices by CFC (Federal Competency Commission).

Indicator 7 :    Facilitate customs clearance: Percentage of inspections requiring customs
                 clearance that are carried out in 3 hours or less.
Value
(quantitative or 84%                       90%                               80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2008                          12/31/2008

Comments         In the 2007 aggregate, 80% of inspections required less than 3 hours and only

(incl. %         35% required less than one hour. By type of customs, however, the numbers

achievement)     differ with an average of 3.88 hours for border crossing, 4.30 for ports and
                 12.14 hours for airports.



                                               iv

                 Improve the quality of port services: Average time a container stays in port
Indicator 8 :    (hours). (This is for the main 4 container ports in Mexico: Manzanillo,
                 Altamira, Veracruz and Progreso).
                                                                             Manzanillo 23;
                                                                             Altamira 23.3'
Value                                                                        Veracruz 47.8 in
(quantitative or 32                        22                                specialized and
Qualitative)                                                                 26.4 inn semi
                                                                             specialized;
                                                                             Progreso 7.2
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         Cumulative Jan-June 2007.
achievement)

Indicator 9 :    Implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments for the Energy
                 Sector: Number of contracts complying with established terms and conditions.
Value
(quantitative or None                      100%                              No data available
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         The Agreement referred to above was published in DOF (Diaro Oficial de la

achievement)     Federacion) August 25, 2008.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

    Indicator       Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Promote Technological Innovation: Number of new consortia established
                 (cumulative) under CONACYT#s program AVANCE
Value
(quantitative or 2                         8                                 8
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         100% met.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    Promote Technological Innovation: Number of firms integrated in new
                 consortia (cumulative) under CONACYT#s program AVANCE
Value
(quantitative or 6                         24                                53
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2004                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments         The number of firms integrated under the Subprogram Public Private
(incl. %         Innovation Consortia and Research Networks, surpassed the target outcome.



                                                v

achievement)

Indicator 3 :    Improve training and education levels of the workforce: Number of annual
                 secondary certificates issued to out-of-school 15-34 year olds by INEA
Value
(quantitative or 200,000                  280,000                           374,171
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         The number of annual certificates issued surpassed the target outcome.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :    Improve training and education levels of the workforce: Increase the number of
                 supported firms with training services under the PAC program
Value
(quantitative or 7000                     10,000                            2,998
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         PAC program has been cancelled as of 01/01/2009.
achievement)
                 Improve training and education levels of the workforce: Increased efficiency in
Indicator 5 :    operation of the PAC program as measured by declining overhead. [Overhead
                 as a % of program costs]
Value
(quantitative or 60                       30                                Not available
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         PAC program has been cancelled as of 01/01/2009.
achievement)

Indicator 6 :    Facilitate new business entry: Number of municipalities with SARE (Rapid
                 Business Opening System)
Value
(quantitative or 85                       175                               136
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2008                        05/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 7 :    Facilitate new business entry: Percentage of GDP covered by municipalities
                 where SARE has been implemented
Value
(quantitative or 35                       55                                No data available
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :    Strengthen economic competition: Time to resolve monopoly cases by CFC



                                               vi

                 (days)
Value
(quantitative or 405                        300                               No data available
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005                 12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments         In 2007 average time to solve a concentration case was: 15 days for normal
(incl. %         procedure and 54 days for complex cases (CFC web page) No information on
achievement)     the time to solve monopoly cases.

Indicator 9 :    Strengthen economic competition: Percentage of CFC fines that have been
                 collected
Value
(quantitative or 42%                        55%                               No data available
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005                 12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         Fines issued at end 2007 $36,114,123; net of revocations and reconsiderations

achievement)     $12,856,172; collected = $873,943.

                 Streamline trade procedures and lower trade costs: Number of firms that
Indicator 10 :   reduced logistics costs more than 15% through Logistics Practices Innovation
                 Program (annual; not cumulative)
Value
(quantitative or 85                         135                               Not tracked
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005                 12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments         The authorities are in the process of getting data to evaluate the impact of the
(incl. %         project on the assisted firms. Also, the authorities are working with the private
achievement)     sector on a project to evaluate the performance of supply chains in Mexico.

Indicator 11 :   Implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments for the Energy
                 Sector: Creation of regulatory accounting framework
Value
(quantitative or None                       Completed                         Partial
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005                 12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments         PEMEX reform approved on Oct. 28, 2008 established petroleum regulatory
(incl. %         commission charged with increased transparency of sector operations. No
achievement)     regulatory accounting framework in other energy sectors.

Indicator 12 :   Implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments for the Energy
                 Sector: Progress in implementation of regulatory accounting framework (%)
Value
(quantitative or None                       30%                               No data available
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005                 12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments for the Energy
Indicator 13 :   Sector: Comprehensive list of standardized performance and quality indicators
                 for the electricity sector (minimum of 20)



                                                vii

Value
(quantitative or Status Report            Completed (100%)                    50%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2007                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         SENER publishes in its web page 10 quality and management indicators for

achievement)     the electricity sector.

                 Implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments for the Energy
Indicator 14 :   Sector: Number of permit holders in compliance with LP Gas regulation (% of
                 total number of permit holders) [Refers to LP Gas regulation].
Value
(quantitative or None                     100%                                100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments         As of March 2009, the Energy Regulatory Commission (CRE) had issued 3
(incl. %         permits for private sector companies to transport LP Gas, of which 2 are
achievement)     operating and one is under construction.
                 Implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments for the Energy

Indicator 15 :   Sector: Number of approved model contracts (% of contracts approved).
                 [Refers to the agreement that establishes the regulation of first-hand sales of
                 petroleum products.]
Value
(quantitative or None                     100%                                No data available
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2005               12/31/2007                          12/31/2008

Comments         Regulation of first hand sale and transport of liquefied petroleum gas by

(incl. %         private entities was issued in December 2007 and Guidelines for the

achievement)     determination of the price limit of LP Gas sold first hand was issued in
                 December 2008.



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                        IP                 Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     05/17/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               viii

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

This implementation completion report (ICR) describes the results of the First Programmatic
Competitiveness Development Policy Loan (Competitiveness DPL). This DPL was designed as
the first of a series of programmatic lending operations spanning several years in support of
Mexico's competitiveness development program. Although the proposed follow up DPLs did not
materialize, the Mexican authorities continued implementing reforms in several of the key policy
areas covered by this operation.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Appraisal of the Competitiveness DPL took place in January 2006. By appraisal, the
macroeconomic situation and sector issues addressed by this operation were as described below.

A combination of fiscal discipline, prudent monetary policy and a positive international
environment had fostered continuous economic growth since mid-2003. The institutional
strengthening of Mexican economic policymaking over the previous decade had helped to avoid
instability during the presidential transition in 2000 and the slow down of the U.S. economy
during 2001-2002. The Mexican economy had begun to recover in mid-2003 amid a global
economic recovery, characterized by an improved U.S. economy, and high international oil
prices. After a strong rebound in economic activity in 2004--when GDP rose 4.4 percent--the
economy expanded at a more moderate 3 percent rate of growth in 2005. The expectation at
appraisal was that the Mexican economy would continue to expand at an annual average growth
of about 3 percent.

Financial sector stability had continued to improve due to stronger macroeconomic
performance and continued upgrading of the legal and regulatory framework. Since the
1994-1995 financial crisis two administrations had concentrated their efforts on improving the
financial sector legal and regulatory framework, strengthening supervision, and fostering the
entrance of foreign financial institutions. As a result, the banking system, had cleaned up its
balance sheet and improved its prudential indicators to above international standards.

Consistent macroeconomic management and financial sector stability had allowed for a
sound expansion in domestic credit to the private sector. A substantial tightening of monetary
policy in 2004 had brought down consumer price inflation. This had allowed the central bank to
ease monetary conditions gradually throughout the second half of 2005, bringing down short term
interest rates to 8.5 percent. Price stability and policies aimed at financial sector stability allowed
for the steady growth of domestic financial savings. Fiscal consolidation reduced the claim of the
public sector on those savings, thereby allowing for a sound expansion in domestic credit to the
private sector, leading to higher private consumption and business investment.

Strong oil revenues had allowed the government to reduce the budget deficit and maintain a
modest external current account deficit. Higher than budgeted oil revenue had played an
important role in achieving fiscal targets, compensating for lower tax revenue and higher public
investment and greater revenue sharing with state and municipal governments. Oil-related budget
revenue had grown by a total of almost 2.5 percentage points of GDP over the past three years,
allowing the budget deficit to be cut by almost half that amount. Due to rapidly increasing oil
revenues the value of external trade resumed double-digit growth in 2004 after its stagnation
throughout the recessive 2001-2003 period. However, the non-oil trade balance was widening



                                                   1

from a deficit slightly under 4 percent of GDP to a deficit close to 6 percent in 2005. The current
account was also strengthened with growing household transfers or workers' remittances,
estimated at almost US$20 billion for 2005, or slightly over 2.5 percent of GDP.

Mexico had made progress in many human development indicators and extreme poverty
reduction, but poverty and inequality remained serious issues. Income per capita (GNI per
capita) was US$6,790, among the highest in Latin America; life expectancy at birth had risen to
74 years; about 89 percent of the population had access to clean water; and the literacy rate was
over 97 percent. Despite important achievements in health and education and some progress in
extreme poverty reduction, low and inequitable growth had kept poverty rates high. The
percentage of people living in extreme poverty was reduced from 24.2 percent in 2000 to 17.3
percent in 2005. Still, the Gini coefficient hovered between 50 and 55, on par with Latin
American averages. According to 2004 data, 47.7 percent of the country's population was poor.

At Appraisal, Mexico's macroeconomic framework was solid and Debt Sustainability
Analysis showed Mexico's overall resilience to plausible shocks. A consistent implementation
of the public debt management strategy aimed at reducing vulnerabilities and long-term financing
costs had led to a significant strengthening of the government's debt structure. Improvements in
Mexico's sovereign credit risk ratings was a reflection of such progress and provided reasonable
assurance of continued adequate access to external finance, even at times of increased market
volatility. The IMF as part of its 2005 Article IV Consultation had indicated that the level of
public debt would not increase substantially over the medium term if macro conditions turned out
significantly worse than projected. However, more extreme shocks or a combination of shocks
would result in a rise in the public sector financing requirement. At the time of appraisal, Mexico
had no Purchases and Loans outstanding with the IMF but maintained periodic bilateral
discussions as part of the Fund's regular surveillance program.

Despite substantial improvements in macroeconomic and financial stability, structural
economic and competitiveness constraints were holding back growth and therefore poverty
reduction. Growth rates had been particularly low over the previous decade when compared with
similar income countries in East Asia. While real GDP per capita in Mexico only grew at an
annual rate of 1.2 percent between 1994 and 2004, it grew at 7.7 percent in China, and at 5.9
percent on average in the East Asia and Pacific region. Productivity growth rates had also been
disappointing. Annual labor productivity growth was negative in Mexico between 1990 and 2004,
in sharp contrast to strong positive growth rates in Chile and Argentina. The share of growth
attributable to total factor productivity was also negative on average between 1980 and 2003,
although there had been a slight increase in recent years. Aware of the problem, the Government
of Mexico (GOM) in 2003 declared increasing country competitiveness to be a key priority of the
Fox Administration. This was a response to the disappointing growth, poverty, inequality, export,
and competitiveness indicators as well as concerns about the country's ability to respond to the
pressures imposed by advancing globalization, such as competition from China and the end of the
textile quota system in 2005.

Competitiveness measures showed Mexico to be weak relative to per capita income--and
getting worse.1 The World Economic Forum's 2005-2006 Global Competitiveness Report



1Competitiveness is broadly defined as the "collection of factors, policies and institutions which determine
the level of productivity of a country and that, therefore, determine the level of prosperity that can be
attained by an economy." World Economic Forum (2005), p.xiii.




                                                    2

(GCR) gave Mexico a rank of 55 out of 117 countries, down from 48 in 2004. In comparison,
Mexico's GNI per capita ranked within that same sample of countries is 39. While this gap
between income and competitiveness rankings was not atypical for Latin America, it indicated
that Mexico was falling well short of its potential. In contrast, Chile, India, China, and other East
Asian economies were enjoying competitiveness rankings that exceed their income placing. The
World Bank's Doing Business 2006 reported similar findings. Mexico ranked 73 (out of 155
countries) on the publication's "Ease of Doing Business" scale, compared with an income per
capita rank of 38. The Mexican Competitiveness Institute (IMCO) ranked Mexico 31 out of 45
economies that IMCO defines as Mexico's competitors, behind Brazil and Thailand among others.

The weak competitiveness of Mexico's economy was also reflected in the reduction in its
share of exports to the United States. Mexico is highly dependent on the U.S. economy, which
absorbs 88 percent of its total exports. After experiencing an export boom in the 1990s thanks to
NAFTA (North America Free Trade Agreement), Mexico had been losing U.S. market share,
particularly to China. Mexico's share of U.S. imports fell from a high of 11.6 percent in 2002 to
10.6 percent in 2004. During that same time period, the Chinese share went from 10.8 percent to
13.4 percent.

Structural Sector Background

The Government's Competitiveness Program addressed constraints to Mexico's growth in a
number of microeconomic areas, including four areas supported by the Competitiveness DPL in:
(i) innovation, technology development and training; (ii) investment climate, regulatory
improvement and competition; (iii) logistics and trade facilitation; and (iv) energy


Innovation, Technology Development and Training

Key challenges for the country's competitiveness and trade were the limited involvement of
the private sector in innovation activities, the low performance of the Mexican innovation
system compared with economies of a similar income level, and the low ability to translate
investments into innovation. These problems contributed to the country's low level of high
value-added industrial production. Analytical work had concluded that the low performance with
regards to innovation resulted from a combination of factors: (i) insufficient private sector
involvement in innovation activities; (ii) total R&D (research and development) investment,
public and private far below OECD averages; (iii) high cost, excessive economic risk, and lack of
access to finance that limited innovation according to Mexican firms; (iv) low levels of
cooperation in the development of new products and processes; (v) weak environment for
entrepreneurship resulting in few potential high-growth start-ups suitable for venture capital
funding; (vi) low science and technology skill base; (vii) inadequate linkages between public
R&D and the productive sector; (viii) limited international participation and linkages; and (ix)
heavy reliance on foreign technology.


The Government had taken a number of actions to boost public and private sector
innovation, with limited results. The Government's strategy in innovation was articulated in the
2001-2006 Special Plan for Science and Technology (PECyT), which defined a set of strategic
priorities for the science and technology (S&T) sector that addressed the sector's shortcomings by
focusing on three overarching objectives: 1) implement a coherent policy framework for S&T; 2)
increase S&T capacity; and 3) promote private sector competitiveness and innovation. A new
legal framework for the S&T sector had been enacted in 2002, creating several new governing
bodies to define and coordinate policies across federal, state, and private sector stakeholders. An


                                                 3

important decentralization mechanism to help coordinate policies at the federal and state level
was the Consejos Estatales de Ciencia y Tecnología. Several National Science and Technology
Council (CONACYT) programs provided incentives for private sector competitiveness and
business innovation.

With respect to training, there was a proliferation of relatively small SME (Small and
Medium Enterprises) support programs, but in general, these programs covered few firms
and their effectiveness was unknown due to a lack of rigorous impact evaluations. An
exception was the CIMO-PAC program of integrated training and technical assistance, which had
shown positive or mixed results in evaluations carried out by the Secretariat of Labor and Social
Security (STPS). The National Institute of Adult Education's (INEA) programs also appeared to
perform well, but more resources were needed to continue the expansion of adult education.

Investment Climate, Regulatory Improvement and Competition

The regulatory burden in Mexico was hindering business growth. An OECD study had
estimated that if those sectors that lag in terms of productivity in Mexico were to modernize their
regulatory framework and align it on best practice, productivity could increase by as much as 10
per cent. The "Doing Business" report showed that when benchmarked against other countries in
the Latin American region, Mexico clearly lags behind in several indicators, including a) time and
cost to open a business; b) time and cost to obtain a license; c) cost of hiring; and d) cost of tax
compliance. IMCO's benchmarking report in 2005 concluded that the cost of the regulatory
burden represented 15 percent of Mexico's GDP and that regulatory improvement could yield a 5
percent increase in GDP. Recent studies had shown that lack of harmonization in the regulatory
environment at the federal, state and municipal level negatively impacted businesses.

The government had undertaken various actions aimed at regulatory improvement. The
Federal Regulatory Improvement Commission (COFEMER) was created in 2000 to coordinate
the government's Regulatory Improvement Program to ensure the transparency of the regulatory
process, and promote regulations that produce benefits greater than the costs. However,
COFEMER lacked adequate support from private and public institutions, and consultation in
making, modifying or repealing legislation and regulation in Mexico was still weak.

Mexico had a well conceived competition law and policy, but enforcement had some
deficiencies. Major limitations of the effectiveness of the Federal Competition Commission
(CFC) were the types of proceedings at the Federal Judiciary that are brought by dissatisfied
parties to seek judicial relief, which can take many years to resolve, and the fact that the CFC
lacked many powers common to competition commissions in other countries such as the ability to
divest monopolies, undertake searches, implement leniency programs, and order preventive
measures. Also, CFC had limited coordination with other sectoral regulators at the federal, state
and municipal levels such as COFEMER and PROFECO (Federal Consumer Protection Agency).

Logistics and Trade Facilitation

Logistics costs which are an important determinant of trade and competitiveness were
particularly high in Mexico. Logistics costs include transportation infrastructure and services
(roads, ports, railways, and trucks), warehousing and inventory financial costs, and the associated
firm administrative costs resulting from supply chain organization. These costs were an estimated
20 percent in Mexico, while the OECD average was 9 percent at the time. A pilot survey of a new
Logistics Perception Index (LPI), aimed at measuring operators' perceptions of countries'




                                                  4

logistics environments, gave Mexico a score of 3.57 (7 being the best and 1 the worst), below
other Latin American countries like Argentina (4.46) and Brazil (3.83).

Mexico had taken a number of actions to lower trade costs, but there was much room for
improvement. Mexico's tariff had been harmonized and reduced on a number of products,
import procedures and non-tariff technical requirements had been eliminated or streamlined and
significant efforts had been made to improve customs, border crossings, and transport
infrastructure. However, Doing Business "trading across borders" indicators showed that when
comparing Mexico with its NAFTA partner, Canada, the number of signatures required for
exports in Mexico was 4, compared with 2 in Canada and time for export was 18 days compared
to 12 days in Canada. Signatures required in Mexico for imports totaled 11 while only 1 was
required in Canada. The total time for import was 26 days compared with 12 days in Canada.

Energy

Productivity of Mexican industries was being negatively affected by high and volatile fuel
prices, uncertainty associated with fuel availability and poor quality of services. The
hydrocarbons industry faced important challenges. About 60 percent of oil revenues were
diverted to finance at least 35 percent of national budgetary needs, reducing the capacity of the
Mexican oil company (PEMEX) to finance new infrastructure for sustainable and competitive
growth. The lack of economic and technical efficiency in the hydrocarbons sector had translated
into high fuel oil prices, which had increased by 183 percent since 1999. Despite having the sixth-
largest gas reserves in the Western Hemisphere, Mexico imported 15-20 percent of its domestic
demand, mostly from the US. The prices of natural gas and electricity had increased over the
previous decade and were among the highest in the world, and the electricity service was poor
compared to other countries.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

Mexico's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)2 FY05-08 supported a substantial agenda in
the area of competitiveness. The CPS­which sets poverty reduction as its overarching and
ultimate objective­seeks to improve competitiveness as one of the aims of the Government's
National Development Plan that the CPS seeks to advance. The CPS proposed a multi-year
program of Analytic and Advisory Activities (AAA) in the area of competitiveness and trade for
FY05-FY08 that could lead to policy-based programmatic operations, complemented by
investment operations in innovation and technology; higher education and lifelong learning;
infrastructure both at the federal and state levels; and access to financial services and property
rights. While a specific competitiveness DPL was not envisaged in the CPS, work on the
Programmatic Competitiveness and Trade AAA convinced the GOM and the Bank team that such
a loan would be an efficient way to support Mexico's broad-based competitiveness agenda. The
Competitiveness DPL is complemented by more narrowly focused lending in housing, finance,
highways, and innovation.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)




2World Bank (2004d).




                                                 5

Program Development Objectives. The main objectives of this program were to: (a) build on
past competitiveness efforts, strengthen new and existing programs, and promote a holistic, cross-
governmental approach to improving productivity in order to accelerate growth and increase
export and employment levels; and (b) contribute to the formulation of a medium-to-long term
competitiveness policy agenda and help lay a solid foundation of competitiveness programs in
advance of the next administration, which took office in December 2006. Specifically, the DPL
aimed to improve the competitiveness of Mexico's economy through the following channels: (1)
promote technological innovation; (2) improve training and education levels of the workforce; (3)
reduce the cost of doing business; (4) facilitate new business entry; (5) strengthen economic
competition; (6) streamline trade procedures and lower trade costs; (7) facilitate customs
clearance; (8) improve the quality of port services; and (9) implement transparency measures and
regulatory instruments for the energy sector.

Program Design. Bank support for Mexico's Competitiveness Agenda was designed as a series
of two-Programmatic Competitiveness Development Policy Loans (DPLs). The first DPL would
support policy and institutional reforms in the following areas: a) innovation, technology
development, and training; b) the investment climate; c) logistics and trade facilitation; and d)
energy. These areas correspond to four of the five central pillars of the GOM's Competitiveness
Agenda. The fifth pillar, financial deepening, was left to a separate but concurrent Finance DPL.
A second DPL was planned for mid-2007, allowing the new administration a semester to
transition into office. Eventually, the second Competitiveness DPL was dropped. The Bank and
the Mexican authorities decided that with a much improved macroeconomic situation and reduced
vulnerability in Mexico, the Bank should provide less financing and more knowledge services to
the Federal Government.

Key indicators. The First Competitiveness DPL defined a result-oriented framework in which
key measures (triggers) for a second operation and target outcomes were identified for each
reform area. No intermediate outcome indicators were established. With respect to the innovation,
technology development and training component, the outcome indicators refer to the increase in
R&D expending, including private R&D, and the increase in coverage and impact of
CONACYT's programs to promote business technology and innovation. In the area of training,
the outcome indicators refer to the increase in coverage of training support programs conducted
by INEA and STPS and the effects of these programs in the income level of the trainees.
Outcome indicators for the investment climate component refer to increase in regulations
reviewed by COFEMER, increase in coverage of the SARE (Rapid Business Opening System)
program to facilitate business opening among municipalities, and the effectiveness of CFC's
antimonopoly measures. Outcome indicators for the logistics and trade facilitation component
refer to the effectiveness of SE's (Secretariat of Economy) Logistics Practices Innovation
Program and reduction in time in custom clearances inspections and in the provision of port
services. Finally, the outcome indicators for the energy component refer to the development and
implementation of regulatory accounting in the energy sector, development of energy
performance indicators and compliance with energy regulation. The table of outcome indicators
in Section F presents the status of the key indicators at the time of preparing this ICR.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification
The original PDOs and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)




                                                  6

The Competitiveness DPL operation supported the creation of new programs or the
evaluation and expansion of existing programs by Government agencies in four areas of
Mexico's Competitiveness Agenda. These areas are: innovation, technology development and
training; investment climate; regulatory improvement and competition; logistics and trade
facilitation; and energy. The actions involved consist of (a) defining approaches to public-private
interactions, (b) strengthening the institutional capacity of agencies to plan and regulate, and (c)
enforcing laws and regulations consistently and predictably. The DPL did not support any major
legal reform, except for the approval of an amendment to the Competition Law that was a trigger
for a second Competitiveness DPL.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
Not Applicable.

1.6 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
Not Applicable.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

A number of agreed policy actions were implemented in the four reform areas covered by the
program prior to Board presentation and most of the triggers for a Second Competitiveness DPL
were subsequently met, which would have justified a second operation. Following is a summary
of the program's performance by component focusing on the prior actions and compliance with
the agreed triggers, as indicated in the summary matrix of the operation presented in Annex 7.
Outcome indicators to assess the effectiveness of the actions taken under the program are
discussed in Section 3 of this report.

                           First Programmatic Competitiveness DPL
  Prior Actions                                                                        Status
  A. Innovation,          1. Promote technological innovation. Scale-up              Met
  Technology              existing and launch new innovation programs to promote
  Development and         technology absorption and high-value added technology-
  Training                based business initiatives through launching and operating
                          Program AVANCE, comprising Ultima Milla and
                          Emprendedores (Venture Capital Fund) initiatives. Creation
                          of a National Business Incubation System (SNIE) and
                          Acceleration Program; and launching an internet portal for
                          the SNIE in Spanish and English.

                          2. Improve training and education levels of the
                          workforce. Contracting of a study to evaluate the impact
                          of the PAC training program from 2002 to 2004. Issuing
                          200,000 secondary education certificates during 2005 to
                          out-of-school population aged 15 to 34 years.
  B. Investment           3. Reduce the cost of doing business. Implementing         Met
  Climate,                the SARE (Rapid Business Opening System) in 85
  Regulatory              municipalities. COFEMER's evaluation of 355 Regulatory
  Improvement and         Impact Assessments (RIAs) in 2005, with the objective of



                                                   7

 Competition           improving the cost-benefit analysis of regulation.

                       4. Strengthen economic competition. though the
                       promotion of homogeneity of competition criteria within
                       the Public Administration by establishing Cooperation
                       Agreements in 15 states and with COFEMER, CRE, and
                       PROFECO.

 C. Logistics and      5. Streamline trade procedures and lower trade                Met
 Trade Facilitation    costs. Reducing tariffs between 3 and 10 points on more
                       than 9,000 tariff lines in the Mexican tariff schedule (this
                       reduction affects 76% of all tariffs in the schedule).
                       Simplifying requirements for export enterprises to import
                       inputs (6,500 IMMEX [PITEX and Maquila] enterprises
                       benefited, 90 percent of manufacturing exports).
                       Implementing "Operation Paperless" in SICEX for
                       operation reports, import license applications, etc. including
                       pilots in SICEX of new SE paperless instruments (quotas,
                       certificates of origin, etc.). Implementing the Logistics
                       Practices Innovation Program in 92 businesses.

                       6. Facilitate customs clearance. Establishing
                       interconnectivity among various secretariats involved in
                       customs procedures ("Inter-Secretarías Information
                       System")--specifically incorporation of Pitex, Maquila, and
                       PROSEC information; and incorporation of quota
                       administration information.

                       7. Improve the quality of port services. Moving PFP
                       and PGR control outside the port areas; installing scanners
                       in main commercial ports; coordinating inspections among
                       sectors (AGA, SEMARNAT, Customs Agents, etc.).
                       Modernizing customs facilities (buildings, video, dynamic
                       scales, etc.). Completion of the "Efficiency and productivity
                       study of the port of Veracruz."

 D. Energy             8. Implement transparency measures and                        Met
                       regulatory instruments. for the energy sector.
                       Integration of an inter-institutional regulatory accounting
                       working group (comprised of SENER, CFE, Luz y Fuerza,
                       CRE) to implement the measures established in the "Plan
                       de Acciones Concretas en Materia de Mejora Regulatoria
                       que Forman Parte de la Agenda Competitividad Inmediata
                       en Materia de Energía" (published in the DOF on August
                       11, 2005. Issuance of a status report on quality and
                       performance indicators for the electricity sector.
                       Establishing a program for the evaluation of performance
                       indicators for PEMEX.

Component A. Innovation, Technology Development and Training.

(1) Promotion of technological innovation. Prior actions in this area were: (i) the scaling up of
existing and launching of new innovation programs under CONACYT's AVANCE Program
comprising Ultima Milla and Fondo Emprendedores (Venture Capital Fund), initiatives; (ii)


                                                  8

creating a National Business Incubation System (SNIE) sponsored by the Under Secretariat for
SMEs (SE), and (iii) launching an internet portal for the SNIE in Spanish and English. Triggers
for a second DPL were: (1) to promote technological innovation by conducting performance
evaluations of the CONACYT and Under Secretariat for SMEs related programs, with the aim to
consolidate funding, increase effectiveness and reduce non-performing funds; and (2) initiating
programs to improve linkages between the science community and businesses.

Trigger (2) was met with the initiation of several programs by CONACYT to improve linkages
between the science community and businesses. The AERIS program supports the creation of
Consortia (strategic alliances) and innovation networks between the scientific community and
business sectors to strengthen competitiveness; and the IDEA program incorporates researchers in
industry. In addition, the ADVANCE program has been expanded and now provides funding for a
guarantee fund to help innovative firms to obtain credit for patenting new technologies, for
technology transfer, and for the development of business training programs in technology aspects.

(2) Improving training and education levels of the workforce. Prior actions in this area were:
(i) contracting of a study to evaluate the impact of the PAC training program from 2002 to 2004,
and (ii) issuing 200,000 secondary education certificates during 2005 to out-of-school population
aged 15 to 34 years. Triggers for a second DPL were: (1) implementation of the recommendations
of the impact evaluation study of the PAC Program, and (2) issuing 240,000 secondary education
certificates during 2006 to out-of-school population aged 15 to 34 years. Both triggers have been
met. The implementation of the recommendations of the impact evaluation of the PAC program
led to the closure of the program due to difficulties to focus its activities and assess the results.
During 2006, INEA provided nearly 423,463 secondary education certificates to the target
population surpassing the trigger of 240,000 certificates.

Component B. Investment Climate, Regulatory Improvement and Competition

(3) Reducing the cost of doing business. The prior action in this area was the COFEMER's
evaluation of 355 Regulatory Impact Assessments (RIAs) in 2005, with the objective of
improving the cost-benefit analysis of regulation. The trigger for a second DPL was the design of
instruments and a methodology to measure the performance of the SAREs and of the RIAs
programs. This trigger has been met. COFEMER is currently working on a methodology for
assessing SARE's performance. Such methodology is based on the best practices of all the
municipalities with an implemented SARE and is looking at evaluating the service quality,
response time and efficiency.

(4) Facilitate new business entry. A prior action in this area was the implementation of the
SARE (Rapid Business Opening System) in 85 municipalities. The triggers for a second DPL was
the extension of SARE to 100 municipalities, covering 40 percent of the country's GDP. This
trigger has been met. The SARE program has been extended from 85 municipalities in 2005 to
136 municipalities as of May 2008, surpassing the target of 100 municipalities by end 2009.

(5) Strengthening economic competition. A prior action in this area was the promotion of
homogeneity of competition criteria within the Public Administration by establishing Cooperation
Agreements in 15 states with COFEMER, CRE and PROFECO. The trigger for a second DPL
was to strengthen the economic competition policy and its application through approval of the
proposed amendments to the Federal Law on Economic Competition by Congress. This trigger
was met with the approval by the Senate in April 2006 of the amendment to the Federal Law of
Economic Competition. This amendment broadens CFC's reach to punish monopolistic practices
and, in extreme cases, to divide the assets of a firm that perseveres in its monopolistic practices.


                                                   9

Component C. Logistics and Trade Facilitation

(5) Streamlining trade procedures and lower trade costs. Prior actions in this area were: (i) to
reduce tariffs between 3 and 10 points on more than 9,000 tariff lines in the Mexican tariff
schedule (affecting 76 percent of all tariffs in the schedule); (ii) simplifying requirements for
export enterprises to import inputs (PITEX--Temporary Import Program for exporters and
Maquila enterprises); (iii) implementing "Operation Paperless" in SICEX (Comprehensive
Foreign Trade System) for operation reports, import license applications, etc. including pilots in
SICEX of new SE paperless instruments (quotas, certificates of origin, etc.); and (iv)
implementing the Logistics Practices Innovation Program in 92 businesses.

All 6 triggers for a second DPL have been met or partially met. Trigger (1) simplifying non-tariff
regulations (such as licenses, authorizations or certificates of origin for preferential treatment)
was met with the provisions of a Decree issued on March 31, 2008 on the "Administrative
Simplifications in Customs and External Trade Matters" which, among other measures, expands
the program of "Authorized Exporter" to a larger number of exporting firms and eliminates the
need for exporters to obtain each time a certificate of origin. Other measures are the modification
of the IMMEX program (formerly PITEX and Maquila), allowing exporters to obtain automatic
authorization for all the inputs that they need without the requirement of an extension of the
program; the extension until February 2010 of the validity of the questionnaires needed to obtain
a certificate of origin (CEROR) for exporters to countries with trade agreements; and extension
for 2009 of the 2008 registration of inputs by exporters to NAFTA countries.

Trigger (2) further strengthening export promotion programs (PITEX and Maquila now IMMEX)
to increase benefits was also met with the March 2008 Decree which, among other things,
includes provisions to eliminate the need for importers to require the inclusion of additional
products under the IMMEX program. Also, within the export promotion programs, the authorities
are implementing a module to enter via internet the requests for the devolution of import taxes to
exporters (drawback), and to issue certificates of origin and the registration of addresses for the
IMMEX program in a digital form.

Trigger (3) implementing the Foreign Trade Law so that federal agencies administer non-tariff
regulations electronically and trigger (4) including other agencies (SALUD--Ministry of Health,
SAGARPA--Ministry of Agriculture, etc) in the paperless program were also met. In 2007 the
Intersectoral Committee of Trade Regulations Electronic Linkages was created to advance the
implementation of the electronic connection among the agencies that administer non-tariff
regulations. The Decree issued in March 2008, among other things, supports the use of
information technology to interconnect the federal entities that administer regulations or non tariff
restrictions, simplifies trade regulations and eliminates up to half of the physical presentation of
trade requests. Authorizations issued by SAGARPA-SENASICA are already validated
electronically in the customs of several cities. SS-COFEPRIS has initiated a pilot test of the
electronic authorization in food products in the Customs of the Mexico City airport. Several
agencies have implemented or will soon implement dedicated links with SAT to exchange
information, including the Directorate General of Standards and Conformance (DGN),
SEMARNAT (Secretariat of the Environment and Natural Resources) and SEDENA.

Trigger (5) assisting in the implementation of the Deputy Chamber initiative which allocates
resources to agencies that oversee trade regulations for information infrastructure (SAGARPA,
SALUD, AGA--Central Customs Administration, SEMARNAT, etc.). Several of these agencies



                                                 10

have received resources for information technology that have allowed them to enhance their
information infrastructure and establish dedicated links with SAT.

Trigger (6) broadening and strengthening the Logistics Practices Innovation Program has been
met. Between August 2004 and December 2006, the SE, with assistance from COMPITE
(National Committee for Productivity and Technological Information), run 273 logistic
workshops in firms, aiming at providing companies with tools to identify and control their
logistic costs. Positive effects include: reduction in cycle time (40 percent, optimized inventory
(22 percent), increase in deliveries (46 percent), and reduction in costs (53 percent).COMPITE
conducted 128 additional workshops during 2007 and first half of 2008. In addition, in 2007,
COMPITE implemented 4 Forum Logistic Workshops with groups of firms.

(6) Facilitating customs clearance. Prior actions in this area were the establishment of
interconnectivity among various secretariats involved in customs procedures ("Inter-Secretarías
Information System")--specifically incorporation of PITEX, Maquila (now IMMEX), and
PROSEC information; and incorporation of quota administration information. The Trigger for a
second DPL was to expand the "Inter-Secretarías Information System" by linking: SAGARPA
information system (2006); automatic notification information (2006); and NOMs SEMANART
and the Tequila Regulatory Council (2007). Currently the information exchange with SAGARPA
is in operation, and the information system with SEMARNAT has been completed. The
development of the information systems of DGN and SEDENA are 70 percent completed.

(7) Improving the quality of port services. Prior actions in this area were to improve the quality
of port services by: moving PFP (Federal Preventive Policy) and PGR (General Attorney) control
outside the port areas; installing scanners in main commercial ports; coordinating inspections
among sectors (AGA, SEMARNAT, Customs Agents, etc.); modernizing customs facilities
(buildings, video, dynamic scales, etc.); and completion of the "Efficiency and productivity study
of the port of Veracruz." Triggers for a second DPL were: (1) defining port community
information systems norms, and implementing them in 3 ports; and (2) reducing the percentage of
prior inspections, and improving the coordination of official agencies within ports; harmonizing
and increasing service hours of port authorities and operators. Trigger (2) has been partially met
with the signing of collaboration agreements among agencies such as MARINA and soon with
PGR and SEDENA.

Component D. Energy

(8) Implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments. Prior Actions in this area
were: (i) integration of an inter-institutional regulatory accounting working group (comprised of
SENER, CFE, Luz y Fuerza, CRE), to implement the measures established in the "Plan de
Acciones Concretas en Materia de Mejora Regulatoria que Forman Parte de la Agenda
Competitividad Inmediata en Materia de Energía" (published in the DOF on August 11, 2005;
and (ii) issuance of a status report on quality and performance indicators for the electricity sector;
and program for the evaluation of performance indicators for PEMEX. Seven triggers were
established for a second DPL.

All the triggers for a second DPL, except one have been met. Trigger (1) increased transparency
on electricity pricing and quality through publishing an agreement by SENER with the regulatory
accounting elements was not met. Trigger (2) issuing a COFEMER agreement to increase
transparency regarding costs was met by the work of COFEMER together with the Ministry of
Energy on several projects for the implementation of measures regarding transparency and
accountability of the electric energy sector companies. As of this date, these projects are still



                                                  11

under review of the Ministry of Energy. Trigger (3) publication of cost, management, quality of
service indicators for the electricity sector was also met. Since February 2006, SENER created a
group with participation of CFE, LFC and CRE in order to create quality and management
reference indicators, as well as the methodology by which each indicator is calculated. SENER's
web page publishes 10 of the indicators.

Trigger (4) official publication of performance indicators for PEMEX was met with the official
publication of performance indicators for PEMEX in the Official Gazette in October 27, 2006:
"Program of Performance Evaluation Indicators in Petroleos Mexicanos and its Subsidiaries.
Trigger (5) official publication of the regulations for the operation of hydrocarbon sector (these
regulations include LP Gas regulation) was met with the Liquid Petroleum Gas Regulation issued
in the Official Gazette on December 5, 2007.

Trigger (6) agreement that establishes the regulation of first-hand sales of petroleum products was
met with the Regulation of first hand sale and transport of liquefied petroleum gas by private
entities issued in December 2007 and Guidelines for the determination of the price limit of LP
Gas sold by first hand issued in December 2008. Trigger (7) agreement that establishes the terms
and contractual conditions of the delivery-receipt of petroleum products or basic petrochemicals
obtained as sub-products from the production of non-basic petrochemicals was met with the
granting of SENER of permits to three private enterprises for the transportation of LP Gas.

There have been other important advances in improving transparency in the energy sector. In
August 2007, SENER issued guidelines for the integration and functioning of Independent Audit
Committees in PEMEX, the Comision Federal de Electricidad and Luz y Fuerza del Centro. In
October 2008, Congress approved the Energy Reform Law (7 decrees) to strengthen PEMEX.
Major aspects of this reform include: strengthening corporate governance, strengthening the
mechanisms of control and transparency, create the citizens' bonds that allow all citizens to
acquire titles of PEMEX's debt, incorporates a new fiscal regime, provides budgetary flexibility,
allows PEMEX to contract foreign debt, creates the National Hydrocarbon Commission within
SENER, and strengthens SENER in energy regulatory matters. The law maintains PEMEX's
monopoly in hydrocarbons and forbids schemes of shared production.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

The Government Competitiveness Agenda had its origin on sound analytical and advisory
work and intense dialogue on competitiveness between the Government, the Bank and the
private sector. Since 2004, the Bank had worked with the Office of the President to assist the
Government in defining a national Competitiveness Agenda for 2004-2006. The success of this
collaboration led to the elaboration of the Programmatic Competitiveness and Trade AAA for
FY05-FY08 which was implemented in two phases. The first phase, approved in June 2005,
sought to fill some key knowledge gaps that were necessary for the Competitiveness Agenda and
to provide non-lending technical assistance to move the agenda forward, including advocacy
presentations and advisory assistance. The first phase report Challenges of Knowledge-based
Competitiveness: Challenges and Opportunities argued that Mexico had to act promptly to take
advantage of the opportunities arising from the knowledge revolution. The second phase,
approved in March 2006, soon after Board approval of the First Competitiveness DPL, brought
key public messages into the public sphere. The second phase report Mexico's Competitiveness:
Reaching its Potential informed policy makers, the private sector and the public at large about
Mexico's competitiveness priorities and shortcomings. Focused analytical pieces included: (i) an
analysis of the quality of infrastructure and key weaknesses of the Mexican innovation system;
(ii) an analysis of the draft labor law reform and its likely impact on indicators on Doing
Business; (iii) a study of logistic costs and bottlenecks; and (iv) a study of the impact of tariff



                                                 12

reform on trade. The analytical work on competitiveness was well regarded and contributed to
facilitating consensus in Mexico on the need for reforms. The success of the Bank's knowledge
and advisory work on competitiveness led to the approval of the First Competitiveness DPL in
support of Government measures to implement its Competitiveness Agenda.

The Government of Mexico was highly committed to the Competitiveness Agenda, although
the policy focus of the government changed in response to worsening external conditions.
The First Competitiveness DPL was appraised in January 2006, about six months prior to the
presidential elections in Mexico. The Fox administration was keen to include the Competitiveness
Agenda as an ongoing government program agreed with the World Bank to ensure that the
program would be continued by the following administration. The Office of the President and the
Ministry of Finance were closely involved in coordinating with the different government agencies
involved to select the policy areas supported by the Competitiveness DPL. The Calderon
administration that took office in December 1, 2006 was also committed to the Competitiveness
Agenda. As the price of oil and other commodities increased during early 2007, the need for Bank
lending diminished and the Mexican government decided not to go ahead with the Second
Competitiveness DPL, although its commitment to the competitiveness reform agenda remained
strong. However, as the international crisis unfolded, and GDP growth slackened, Government
priorities moved towards reducing the effects of the external crisis and protecting social programs.

Assessment of Program Design

Although the First Competitiveness DPL focused on reform areas that are crucial for
Mexico's competitiveness, it had too many subcomponents and involved too many
Government agencies to be an effective vehicle for policy dialogue with the authorities. The
First Programmatic Competitiveness DPL was designed as the first of two operations in support
of the Government's Competitiveness Agenda. A programmatic approach was appropriate to give
the operation flexibility to respond to changes in Government priorities and in the environment in
which Mexico had to compete. The first operation supported a number of policy actions in four
areas of the Government's Competitiveness Agenda: (i) strengthening innovation, education and
training; (ii) improving the investment climate; (iii) reducing logistic costs; and (iv) improving
the energy sector. The policy actions supported involved the expansion or improvement of
existing Government programs or the creation of new ones; actions that could be implemented at
the executive and federal level. The decision to focus on actions that did not require the approval
of laws by Congress was a pragmatic decision, but limited the depth of the reforms supported by
the operation. The triggers for the envisaged second operation also did not involve major
legislative decisions, except for the approval of an amendment to the Competition Law. The
decision to support the fifth key area of the Government's Competitiveness Agenda--financial
deepening-with a separate operation, Finance and Growth DPL, was appropriate to make the
Competitiveness DPL more focused and manageable. Nevertheless, with nine sub-objectives, and
14 agencies in charge of implementing the policy actions, the First Competitiveness DPL was too
broad to be an effective vehicle for policy dialogue with the multiple agencies involved, a
problem shared with many of the early DPLs approved by the Bank.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The first Competitiveness DPL defined too many triggers and outcome indicators to assess
the effectiveness of the policy actions supported by the operation. The PAD defined a result-
oriented framework in which triggers for the next step and target outcomes were identified for
each reform area. The triggers for the second operation were designed to reflect incremental



                                                 13

stages of the reform process and provided the basis for deciding if and when to go ahead with a
second operation. However, 22 triggers were too many triggers to follow up, particularly if there
is no indication of the relative importance of the triggers. Most of the outcome indicators have a
sound conceptual connection with the prior policy actions, but there is no distinction between
PDO outcome indicators and intermediate outcome indicators. Nine program development sub-
objectives and 31 outcome indicators are also too numerous to follow up, and in some cases not
even the agencies involved regularly obtain the relevant information. Also, there is no indication
of the relative importance of the outcome indicators to help assess the effectiveness of the policy
actions in case the second operation did not materialize, as was the case, and if not all the target
outcomes were met. Moreover, the institutional arrangements for collecting the data on the
selected indicators was not effective. Although the SE was to coordinate the actions among the
sectoral agencies and the agencies would be responsible for collecting the data on the indicators,
at the time of preparation of the ICR, the sectoral agencies were not aware of this commitment
and were not forthcoming with the required information. The Bank prepared one initial ISR in
May 2006 with information on the base line and end of project target of 28 outcome indicators,
but no information is provided on any progress towards meeting any of these indicators.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

No next phase or follow-up DPL operation to the First Programmatic Competitiveness DPL
is envisaged, although the Bank and IFC continue to support key reforms in the area of
Competitiveness through AAA and advisory work. The Bank has a number of ongoing loans
and advisory activities in support of policy areas related to competitiveness. These include a loan
to support start-up firms in business process outsourcing and other information technology
focused activities. A tax administration project is helping to lower the cost of compliance with tax
obligations and another is under preparation that would help improve customs administration. In
human capital development there is ongoing lending for education quality, together with
analytical and advisory support to the Secretariat of Education. An Innovation for
Competitiveness APL1 was approved in May 2006 which supports a number of CONACYT
activities including its programs to support private sector innovation activities, the formation of
advanced human resources, and strengthening the policy framework and evaluation. In
infrastructure the Bank is providing advisory services on toll roads and logistics. On its part, the
IFC is providing advisory services on the "business enabling environment". In March 2008, the
Bank approved its new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico 2008-2013. The new
approach agreed with the Government is that there will be a streamlined IBRD lending program,
and an expanded program of analytical and advisory services (AAA), and that most lending
would be consolidated into an annual DPL in supports of the Government's own development
program. Since improving competitiveness is one of the five strategic pillars of the Government's
National Development Plan 2007-2012, it is likely that the Bank will provide additional analytical
and advisory work in this area and that reform actions to improve competitiveness could be
included in some of the future DPLs.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives of the Competitiveness Agenda remain highly relevant to current country
priorities. In December 2006, the GOM created the Competitiveness Committee with the
participation of 9 state secretariats to follow up the Competitiveness Agenda of the Federal



                                                 14

Government and strengthen the institutional framework to coordinate public policies aimed at
improving the productivity of Mexican enterprises. Mexico's National Development Plan for
2007-2012 establishes "Economic Competitiveness and Generation of Jobs" as one of the five
pillars to achieve the objective of sustainable human development. The other four pillars are
equality of opportunity, environmental sustainability, and effective democracy and responsible
foreign affairs. The main quantitative targets identified in the competitiveness and generation of
jobs pillar are an enhanced level of sustained economic growth at an annual rate of 5 percent by
2012, and the generation of at least 800,000 formal sector jobs annually. In order to achieve these
targets, objectives and strategies in a large number of areas including public finance, financial
sector, infrastructure, rural development, SMEs, and competition policy, are aligned to strengthen
the levels of investment in physical capital, increase the level of human capital and skills, and
raise the level of productivity growth. The key policy messages of the Bank's report: Mexico's
Competitiveness: Reaching its Potential are still relevant to achieve the targets of this pillar.
These messages are: (A) to secure strong job creation and significant poverty reduction in Mexico,
increasing competitiveness should be a priority; (B) Mexico needs to maximize its efficiency
potential by a) encouraging competition between firms, b) facilitating trade and reducing logistic
costs, c) improving business regulation and the investment climate, d) strengthening the energy
sector,   and     e)  improving     the  information    and    communications    technology    and
telecommunications sector. Special emphasis is needed to improve and transform the agriculture
sector, and (C) to advance to the innovation-driven stage of development, Mexico needs to boost
innovation and strengthen quality, education, and training. In an increasingly unfavorable external
situation, it is imperative that Mexico accelerates implementation of its competitiveness reform
agenda, increasing product market competition and labor market flexibility.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

a. Achievement of the Program's Broader Development Objective.

In achieving its broader development objectives, the performance of the Competitiveness
DPL has been Moderately Satisfactory. The two Broader Development Objectives were to: (a)
build on past competitiveness efforts, strengthen new and existing programs, and promote a
holistic, cross-governmental approach to improving productivity in order to accelerate growth and
increase export and employment levels; and (b) contribute to the formulation of a medium-to-
long term competitiveness policy agenda and help lay a solid foundation of competitiveness
programs in advance of the next administration, which was to take office in December 2006.

With respect to the first objective, Mexico has made significant improvements in strengthening
new and existing programs and in coordinating government efforts in all the policy areas of its
Competitiveness Agenda. However, it is too early to see the results in terms of increased
competitiveness, faster growth and increased exports and employment. One way to measure
increase in competitiveness is to track Mexico's ranking in terms of the Global Competitiveness
Index (GCI) over time. Mexico's GCI ranking has improved from 55th, in 2005 to 48th in 2007, in
the constant 2005-2006 sample of 117 countries. However, between 2007 and 2008 Mexico lost 8
positions from 52nd (among 131 countries) to 60th (among 134 countries) and its score in a range
of 1 to 7 decreased from 4.3 to 4.2. Mexico's ranking in the 2008-2009 GCI is better than for
other comparator countries such as Brazil (64th), Colombia (74th ) and Turkey (63rd.), but it is far
behind countries such as Chile (28th) Spain (29th) and Italy (49th).




                                                15

It is difficult to assess the effect of the competitiveness program in terms of growth and exports,
because Mexico has been greatly affected by the international financial crisis. After growing at
3.2 percent in 2007, Mexico's real GDP started contracting in Q4 2008 pulling its 2008 growth
rate to a meager 1.4 percent. The expectation is that 2009 GDP will contract by 1.16 percent. In
2008 exports grew in nominal terms by 8.8 percent, but the expectation is that they will contract
by about 14 percent in 2009, affected by weak US growth, lower oil production and falling oil
export prices. Similarly, formal sector unemployment has increased from 3.7 percent in 2007 to
4.47 percent in 2008.

With respect to the second objective, the DPL in fact contributed to the decision of the Calderon
Administration to include Competitiveness as one of the five pillars of the National Development
Plan for 2007-2012.

b) Achievement of the Program's Sub Objectives

In achieving the Program's sub-objectives, the performance of the Competitiveness DPL
has been Moderately Satisfactory. A number of expected outcomes have been achieved in the
reform areas, although others have not materialized, in some cases because it is too early to see
the results of the reform actions, and in others because the reforms have not been deep enough to
produce the desired results. The outcomes in each of the nine sub-objectives are discussed below.

(1) Promote technological innovation: Satisfactory. Progress has been made in several outcome
indicators, surpassing in some cases the expected target for end 2009. Total R&D as percentage
of GDP has increased from 0.46 percent in 2005 to an estimated 0.53 percent at end 2008, and
private R&D as percentage of total R&D has increased from 42.2 percent in 2004 to 43.9 percent
at end 2008, both surpassing the DPL target for 2009. CONACYT programs have experienced
important advances. The number of new consortia established (cumulative) under the program
AVANCE increased from 2 at end 2004 to 9 with 53 enterprises participating at end 2008; the
number of technology based project that attract private investment (cumulative) under this
program increased from 70 in 2004 to 268 at end 2008. By end 2008 only 81 researchers had
been incorporated in businesses under program IDEA, fewer than anticipated. The program of
high technology business incubators of SE/SNIE increased (cumulative) from 8 at end 2005 to 20
at end of 2009. Five new incubators are planned by end 2009. The number of new businesses
created (cumulative) in high tech incubators increased from 40 at end 2005 to 100 at end 2009.

Despite the progress achieved, Mexico needs to make a much greater effort in strengthening
technological innovation. According to the Mexico Report of the 2008-2009 GCR, Mexico
ranked 67th for its innovation capacity out of 134 countries. The report also ranks Mexico very
low in terms of company spending on R&D (71st ), quality of research institutions (79th ) industry
collaboration (84th ), and availability of scientists and engineers (105th).

(2) Improve training and education levels of the workforce: Moderately Satisfactory. INEA
has met the outcome indicator target of providing nearly 400,000 secondary education certificates
for 15 to 34 year olds each year between 2006 and 2008. INEA does not yet collect information
on the impact of its training on the employment and wages of its graduates. With respect to the
outcome indicators related to the PAC training services, the number of enterprises receiving the
training has decreased from 7,228 in 2006 to 2,988 in 2008 because of the decision to discontinue
this service due to design and monitoring problems. A new redesigned training program will be
prepared incorporating the PAC experience. Mexico ranks 67th in extent of staff training in the
2008-2009 GCI.



                                                   16

(3) Reduce the cost of doing business: Satisfactory. The outcome indicator of increasing the
percentage of regulations issued by regulatory agencies with COFEMER's evaluation from 50
percent at end 2005 to 70 percent at end 2009 has been surpassed. As of December 2008, all draft
regulation proposals are submitted to COFEMER's assessment and approval before they are
issued by the Official Gazette and enter into force.

(4) Facilitate Business Entry: Satisfactory. The outcome indicator of increasing the number of
municipalities with SARE programs has been met. The number of municipalities with SARE
programs has increased from 85 at end 2005 to 137 as of December 2008. The effect of the SARE
program in the municipalities covered is substantial judged by the fact that investment in
municipalities with this program amounted to 21,208 million pesos. The intended outcome of
reducing the average time to open a business in municipalities with SARE programs from 52 day
at end 2004 to 3 days at end 2009 has also been met. As of December 2008, the time required to
open a small or medium size business with low risk to health and environment was a maximum of
48 hours. Other firms require 72 hours (3 days).

(5) Strengthen economic competition: Unsatisfactory. There is no available information to
assess improvement in effectiveness of the CFC. The CFC received 45 cases of monopolistic
practices in 2006 and 39 cases in 2007; and it concluded 39 cases in 2006 and 48 in 2007. There
is no information on the average time taken by the CFC to conclude monopoly cases. The
outcome indicator of increasing the percentage of fines collected by the CFC from 42 percent at
end 2005 has not been met. Fines issued by CFC at end 2007 (net of revocations and
reconsiderations) amounted to MXP12,856,172, and only MXP873,943 was collected in fines
that year.

Mexico's ranking in the GCI indicator for goods markets efficiency has deteriorated from 48th,
among 122 countries in 2006 to 61st, among 132 countries in 2007 and 73rd among 134 countries
in 2008. Mexico's score in a scale of 1 to 7 also deteriorated from 4.3 to 4.1 during this time.
Between 2007 and 2007, Mexico lost 12 positions in intensity of local competition (from 66th, to
78th ) and 15 positions in effectiveness of antimonopoly policy (from 77th to 92nd ).

(6) Streamline trade procedures and lower trade costs: Unsatisfactory. Trade procedures remain
unduly complex, repetitive and overly formal and paper-based. Although the backbone
technology is adequate, automation is partial and fragmented. Doing Business 2009 trading across
borders indicators for Mexico shows that the number of documents needed to export and import
have decreased from 6 and 8 in 2006 to 5 for both in 2008. However, the cost to import and to
export a container has increased during this period. The cost to export a container is twice the cost
in Chile and the cost of importing a container is almost 3.5 times the cost in Chile, and about
twice the cost in Colombia and Brazil. Doing Business 2009 ranks Mexico 87th out of 181
economies in trading across borders compared to a ranking of 53th for Chile. According to this
report, it takes 17 days to complete and export and 23 days to complete an import in Mexico.

(7) Facilitate customs clearance: Unsatisfactory. The outcome indicator of this subcomponent
is an increase in the percentage of inspections requiring custom clearance that are carried out in
three hours or less from 84 percent at end 2005 to 90 percent at end 2009. This outcome indicator
has not been met. In 2007, in the aggregate, 80 percent of inspections required less than 3 hours
and only 35 percent required less than one hour. By type of customs, however, the numbers differ
with an average of 3.88 hours for border crossing, 4.30 for airports and 12.14 for ports. Custom
clearance for ground and maritime transportation is 7 days and for air transportation is one day.




                                                 17

Despite some improvements in customs procedures and information systems, Mexico's customs
still has a reputation for both inefficiency and corruption. It suffers from a number of structural
impediments to efficiency. It is activity rather than result oriented. Procedures and processes are
complex, insufficiently standardized, shot through with duplication of activities, confused
responsibilities, inadequate and no-timely information and fragmentary information technology
and communications. AGA's computer systems are out of date and have not been upgraded for a
while. A significant step in improving customs is the adoption within SAT strategy the AGA
Business Plan entitled Customs Modernization Plan 2007-2012. This plan will guide the efforts in
investment in infrastructure and technology, simplification of the trade legal, regulatory and
operational framework and cooperation with the private sector and other government institutions,
both national and foreign. The Bank is assisting AGA to prepare a Customs Institutional
Strengthening TA project to help AGA to totally redesign its processes, starting with a New
Model for Customs based on the best international models.

(8) Improve the quality of port services: Moderately Satisfactory. The quality of port services is
assessed in this operation by the reduction in the average time a container stays in port (hours for
the main four container ports in Mexico: Manzanillo, Altamira, Veracruz y Progreso). At end
2004, the average time in these ports was 32 hours. The average time during the first half of 2007
was: Manzanillo 23.0 hours; Altamira 23.3 hours; Veracruz 47.8 hours in specialized and 26.4
hours in semi specializes; and Progreso 7.2 hours. Despite these improvements, the quality of port
services in Mexico is negatively affected by the poor port infrastructure. The GCR 2008-2009
ranks Mexico 94th out of 134 countries in quality of port infrastructure, a loss of 3 positions with
respect to the previous year.

(9) Implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments for the energy sector:
Moderately Unsatisfactory. Six outcome indicators were established for this subcomponent. The
outcomes of creating a regulatory accounting framework for the energy sector and of
implementing one third of it was not met. The outcome of establishing a list of at least 20
standardized performance and quality indicators for the electricity sector was partially met.
SENER publishes in its web page 10 of these indicators. The rest of the outcome indicators refer
to the number of contracts or permits issued that are in agreement with the new energy regulation
supported by this operation. One outcome indicator is that all permit holders are in compliance
with LP Gas regulation. This outcome was met since as of March 2009, CRE had issued 3
permits for private sector companies to transport LP Gas, of which 2 are operating and one is
under construction. Another outcome indicator is that all contracts comply with the terms and
conditions of the agreement concerning the delivery-receipt of petroleum products or basic
petrochemicals obtained as sub-products from non basic petrochemicals. The agreement was
published in August 2008, but no information is available on the contracts that comply with this
agreement. Another outcome indicator is that all approved model contracts comply with the
regulation of first-hand sales of petroleum products: Also in this case there is no available
information on the number of contracts issued that comply with the regulation.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating of moderately satisfactory is based on the following considerations.
First, important actions were taken in all the policy areas prior to Board presentation and a
substantial number of triggers for the originally planned second DPL have been met. Second, a
number of expected outcomes have been achieved in the reform areas, although others have not



                                                 18

materialized, in some cases because it is too early to see the results of the reform actions, and in
others because the reforms have not been deep enough to produce the desired results. Third,
despite of the achievements made in implementing the Competitiveness Agenda, it is difficult to
conclude that the reform measures have resulted in increased competitiveness for Mexico's
products and services. In fact, Mexican growth and exports have been badly affected by the
contraction in the demand for Mexican exports in the USA, Mexico's main trading partner, and
by the reduction in credit flows, including trade financing, due to the international financial crisis.
Finally, between 2007 and 2008 Mexico lost 8 positions in the GCI from 52nd (among 131
countries) to 60th (among 134 countries) and its score in a range of 1 to 7 decreased from 4.3 to
4.2.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The policies supported by this loan were expected to have significant positive poverty and
social effects. Many of these effects would be indirect and emerge over the medium to long-term.
The expectation was based on the premise that enhanced productivity and competitiveness are
important drivers of growth and therefore of poverty reduction. Nearly all the countries that have
had long term success in reducing poverty have done so with higher rates of economic growth.
This association is also true for Mexico, where poverty reduction has tracked growth in GDP per
capita over the last decade. In addition to driving growth, the actions supported by this operation
were expected to have significant positive social benefits at the microeconomic level. These
included impacts on small businesses through actions to facilitate the entrance of new small
business in the formal market and the creation of job and training opportunities for educated
youth and high-skill labor, and the capacity of COFEMER to improve the cost-benefit ratio of
regulations for the overall society. A larger-scale poverty and social impact evaluation was to be
carried out for the program's second phase, to assess the size and depth of the impacts in more
detail. Some outcome indicators of this operation point to results that should benefit small
businesses. Among them are the expansion of the SARE program to simplify business entry to
136 municipalities, and the increase in the number of secondary certificates issued by INEA,
However, the recent growth slowdown has meant significant lost poverty reduction opportunities.
As indicated above, formal sector unemployment has increased in 2007 and 2008 and Mexican
authorities expect a loss of 300,000 jobs in 2009.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The First Competitiveness DPL and the Programmatic Competitiveness and Trade AAA
have had a significant impact on the institutional strengthening of the ministries and
agencies involved in Mexico's Competitiveness Agenda. Institutional strengthening actions in
CONACYT include the scaling up of existing and launching of new programs to promote
technological innovation such as the program AERIS to support the creation of Consortia
(strategic alliances) and innovation networks between the scientific community and business
sectors to strengthen competitiveness; the program IDEA to incorporate researchers in industry;
and the program to establish public-private innovation consortia and research networks. An
institutional strengthening action in STPS was the contracting of a study to evaluate the impact of
the PAC training program that led to the elimination of such program. Important institutions
strengthening action were the implementation of the SARE program to accelerate business
opening in 136 municipalities and the strengthening of export promotion programs. Institutional



                                                 19

strengthening actions supported by the operation involving inter-institutional arrangements were
the establishment of a cooperation agreement on economic competition between 15 states,
COFEMER, CRE and PROFECO, the establishment of interconnectivity among various
secretariats involved in custom procedures, and the integration of an inter-institutional regulatory
accounting working group.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
N.A.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
N.A.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk that the policy actions taken under the Competitiveness Agenda will not be
maintained is Moderate. The policy actions taken under the Competitiveness Agenda are based
on the results of sound analytical and advisory work and intense dialogue on competitiveness
between the Government, the Bank and the private sector, particularly in the context of the
Programmatic Competitiveness and Trade AAA. As such, these measures have strong political
and public support. However, there are internal and external risks that could delay the
accomplishment of some of the development outcomes that are expected in the medium to long
term. One internal risk is that Government could increasingly shift its focus away from
competitiveness issues to addressing other key government bottlenecks to growth, especially
issues related to how to address the economic deceleration, improve infrastructure and reduce
poverty. There is also the risk that the public resources needed to expand the programs in science
and technology, training, and port improvement might not materialize for lack of fiscal space, if
economic growth decelerates as expected. An external risk that has become a major threat is the
strong negative effect in Mexico of the slow down of economic activity in the USA, due to the
close integration of these economies. One of the results is the projected decline in Mexican
exports in 2009. Another risk is the reduction of external financing and the effects of volatility
from the international financial crisis on local interest rates and inflation, and eventually on the
lending capacity of the local banks. These domestic and external risks are mitigated by sound
macroeconomic policies that provide a solid anchor to the economy.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance:

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Quality at entry of the operation was ensured by the extensive analytical work done by the
Bank prior to preparation of the First Competitiveness DPL and the close collaboration
between the Bank and the Mexican Authorities. The Bank team carried out excellent analytical
work on issues of competitiveness prior to the preparation of the DPL. This work was



                                                 20

instrumental in defining the Government's Competitiveness Agenda. Also, during preparation of
the DPL the Bank worked with the different sectors of the government and the private sector to
generate consensus and actively help in the assessment of the short-term impact of the reform
actions. All this work ensured high quality at entry of the DPL. However, the decision of the
Bank team of combining under one single operation a large number of policy areas and
performance indicators (eight subcomponents, 14 implementing agencies, 22 triggers for a second
operation and 31 outcome indicators) resulted in an operation that was too broad to evaluate and
to be an effective vehicle for policy dialogue with the authorities. Many of the outcome indicators
are not normally collected and published by the implementing agencies and were difficult or
impossible to obtain for the preparation of this ICR. Furthermore, there was no indication in the
PAD of the relative importance of the outcome indicators to help assess the effectiveness of the
policy actions in cases in which not all the target outcomes were met.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

There was very little supervision because the structure of a programmatic operation puts
emphasis on project preparation rather than on supervision. No formal supervisions of this
operation were undertaken after effectiveness, and only one ISR was prepared before closing date.
Little was done in the area of monitoring and evaluation for some subcomponents. Nevertheless,
the Bank team had regular interaction with the Mexican authorities in the context of the Second
Competitiveness and Trade AAA, the discussion of economic and sector work that supported
several aspects of the program, and the preparation of the CPS 2008-2013 for Mexico which
presents a review of the accomplishments of the 2005-2008 CPS.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Although the Bank Team did excellent analytical work and consensus building efforts to ensure
quality at entry of the DPL, the loan design had several shortcomings such as the excessive
number of policy areas, implementing agencies, triggers, and outcome indicators that made it
very difficult to asses the effectiveness of the Program. In addition, there was very little
supervision efforts of follow up of the triggers and outcome indicators after loan approval;
monitoring and evaluation for some subcomponents were inadequate.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Secretariat of the President and the Ministry of Economy (SE) had leadership roles in
working with the Bank in developing a strategy and implementation agenda for Mexico's
Competitiveness Agenda. These two Ministries also worked closely with the Bank Team in
shaping into a cohesive operation the various goals and strategies of each institution that
participated in the implementation of the Agenda, and in the design of the Competitiveness DPL
Program. During implementation the SE successfully coordinated the many participating agencies
and ensured that the Program objectives remained on track.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                                 21

Several government agencies were involved in all steps of program design and implementation,
dedicating highly qualified and committed staff to the program. The most relevant include the
Ministries of Finance, CONACYT, INEA, STPS, COFEMER, CFC, AGA and SENER. Each of
the sectoral ministries and agencies involved in the operation were. Each of the sectoral ministries
and agencies involved in the operation were responsible for collecting the data on the selected
indicators, and as the executing agency was in charge of coordinating the information to be
provided by the GOM for any report related to this loan. However, this arrangements for
collecting the information on triggers and outcome indicators did not work as envisaged for the
elaboration of this ICR.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government of Mexico developed a clear vision and strategy for improving Mexico's
competitiveness that was incorporated into an ambitious Competitiveness Agenda, a center piece
of its National Development Plan for the period 2001-06. By subjecting this strategy to intensive
consultation with civil society, the Government ensured the program was politically feasible.
Several government agencies, under the leadership of the SE, worked with the Bank Team to
shape into a cohesive operation the various goals and strategies of each institution and to identify
key next steps, progress indicators and target outcomes for each reform area. However, neither
the SE nor the implementing agencies did a follow up of the DPL or collected the required
information on triggers and outcome indicators to assess the effectiveness of the operation.

6. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)

The lessons learned from the First Competitiveness DPL are the following:

    (i)      The quality of the technical analysis underpinning a policy based operation is crucial
             to engage the borrower's commitment to the reform agenda. Extensive analytical
             work done by the Bank provided the diagnosis and policy recommendations that
             were incorporated into the Government's Competitiveness Agenda. The high quality
             of the technical analysis was crucial to make increased competitiveness a key priority
             of both, the Fox and the Calderon Administrations.

    (ii)     Regulatory and institutional reforms covering many reform areas may require sector
             specific operations rather than one DPL with many subcomponents. This DPL series,
             as is the case with many other DPLs, covered too many reform areas: four sectors
             (strengthening innovation, education and training; improving the investment
             climate; reducing logistic costs; and improving the energy sector.) with 8 sub
             components, 22 triggers and 31 outcome indicators. Such a wide coverage of reform
             areas reduces the depth of the reforms and is not conducive to a substantial policy
             dialogue during the course of the series.

    (iii)    Selection of outcome indicators for a series of programmatic loans should include
             intermediate outcome as well as final outcome indicators to allow for an assessment
             of the operation if fewer loans materialize than initially envisaged. A number of
             outcome indicators for the First Competitiveness DPL were designed with the
             expectation that they would be met at the end of the second operation. Since the



                                                 22

           second DPL did not materialize, at the time of this ICR it was too early to assess the
           results of some of the implemented reforms. It would have been useful if some
           intermediate outcome indicators would have been established against which to
           evaluate the success of the policy actions in the absence of a second operation. Also,
           in cases in which a large number of triggers and outcome indicators are selected, it is
           necessary to establish some order of importance to assess the effectiveness of the
           actions supported by the operation if not all the outcomes have been met.

    (iv)   During preparation of a DPL, a formal agreement should be reached with the
           authorities on the collection of data on the selected indicators. A recurrent problem
           in DPLs in which the Bank loan goes for budgetary support is that the Bank Team
           does not usually establishes a close working relationship with all the agencies that
           implement the policy actions supported by the DPL. As a result, these agencies tend
           not to be aware of the need for them to provide information on the triggers or
           outcome indicators agreed between the Government and the Bank. This makes it
           difficult to obtain information on the indicators particularly if these are not based on
           information that the agencies collect and publish in their web pages on a regular basis.

    (v)    Programmatic loans should be subject to a more structured schedule of supervisions
           missions to assess the progress in implementing next key steps and in meeting
           outcome indicators. The First Competitiveness DPL was supervised once in the
           context of preparation of a fee-based assistance to improve competitiveness of the
           Federal District. After effectiveness, no information was obtained to assess progress
           towards accomplishing the key next steps or the expected outcome indicators. This
           makes it difficult for the Bank to assess progress in accomplishing the program goals
           and be able to influence the outcomes through country dialogue, before producing the
           final ICR.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
Borrower's comments are presented in Annex 4.

(b) Cofinanciers
NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
NA




                                               23

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision
Juan Carlos Alvarez      Sr Counsel                         LEGLA
Jose A. Barbero          Consultant                          LCSTR
Regis Thomas Cunningham Sr Financial Management Specia      LCSFM
Jozef Draaisma           Sr Country Economist                LCSPE
Gabriela Elizondo Azuela Sr Energy Spec.                    LCSEG
Thomas Edward Haven      Private Sector Development Spe      LCSPF
Benjamin Herzberg        Sr Private Sector Development       CICBE
Karina M. Kashiwamoto    Language Program Assistant          LCC1C
Victor Manuel Ordonez
Conde                    Sr Financial Management Specia     LCSFM

William Reuben           Sr Social Scientist                 LCSSO
L. Keta Ruiz             Senior Operations Officer           ECSPS
Jocelyn Troncoso         Senior Program Assistant            LCSPR
John S. Wilson           Lead Economist                     DECRG



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                      35                         265.60
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00
                         Total:             35                         265.60
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                      10                          28.74
  FY07                                        1                         22.94
  FY08                                                                  45.54
                         Total:             11                          97.22




                                          24

Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
         (if any)

NA




                                    25

Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
        (if any)
NA




                                  26

Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(Translated from the original in Spanish)

Actions of Mexico to promote competitiveness

The Mexican Government acts to achieve sustainable human development. The challenge is
to accelerate the economic growth of the country and achieve sustainable human development
through: (i) implementing complementary public policies, (ii) maintaining economic stability,
and (iii) enhancing country's competitiveness. The efforts of the government have targeted
themselves to coordinate, through cabinets, the selection and the monitoring of public policies.
With this, duplications are avoided and the complementarity of the federal government policies is
ensured.

The challenge of management and implementation of public policies
Cabinets created in December 2006:

            Cabinets                                   Major Achievements


   Competitiveness                     Fiscal Reform

   Cabinet                             Pension System Reform
                                       Mexico´s Oil Reform



   Economic Cabinet                    Since 2007, the Mexican Federal Budget (PEF) provides
                                       more resources for social programs and investment in
                                       infrastructure



   Social Cabinet                      Strategy "To live Better"
                                       Alliance for Educational Quiality
                                       Popular insurance



   Infraestructure and                 Infrastructure National Program 2007-2012

   Tourism Cabinet                     Infrastructure National Fund (FONADIN)



                                       Penal Justice and Public Safety Reform

   Security Cabinet                    National Security Strategy
                                       Security Platform "Plataforma Mexico"
                                       Strategy "Let´s Clean Up Mexico" Recovery Zone



The Competitiveness Committee coordinates the actions in order to improve the
competitiveness of Mexico. The Competitiveness Committee (previously known as the Cabinet
of Competitiveness) was created in December 2006. It has participation of 9 Ministries. It
monitors the Competitiveness Agenda of the Federal Government, including actions that seek to
strengthen the economy and that will have a favorable impact in the competitiveness of our



                                                27

country in the short, medium and long term. It also strengthens the institutional framework for
coordinating public policies aimed at improving the productivity of Mexican companies.

The Competitiveness Agenda tries to improve 5 dimensions of competitiveness

   1.       Welfare of workers and families: The well-being of workers and families increases
            when jobs are generated, wages improve, the quality of the products or services
            improve, and costs are reduced in the fulfillment of the obligations of the citizens.
   2.       Productivity of the companies: The productivity of companies increases when
            transaction, inputs and of logistics costs are reduced; in an environment of
            competition that favors innovation. In addition, it is fundamental to advance with
            regard to education, training, and health.
   3.       Investment. Investment increases when the profitability of projects is greater than
            the cost of capital. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to reduce the risk of the
            investments, reduce the costs in the economy, and facilitate the starting and
            implementation of the projects.
   4.       Ease of doing business: The facility to do business increases with actions aimed at
            reducing the time and cost of compliance with regulations, which should facilitate
            legal and normative certainty.
   5.       Institutional Development: The institutional development is strengthened with
            actions that make more effective and efficient the governmental institutions. This
            increases the effectiveness of the public policies.

Final Comments:

            · In the Competitiveness Committee of the Federal Government, we
                understand and we take on the challenge of increasing the competitiveness
                of the country.
            · Competitiveness is a relative concept, in order to advance is necessary to do it
                faster that the other countries. Thus, in the Government of President Calderón,
                we are implementing actions aimed at deeply transforming the operation of our
                economy.
            · In addition to this important effort, it is also required the decisive work the three
                Orders of Government, of the Powers of the Federation and of the private
                initiative.
            · It is necessary to point out that in Mexico we have advanced, however we are
                aware that there is a great deal to do.
            · The challenge is to accelerate the economic growth of the country and achieve
                sustainable human development.


Comments on the project and the work of the Bank in Mexico

The contribution of the Bank to competitiveness and growth in Mexico goes beyond what
was reflected in the report of the loan with which we are concerned. In fact, the
contribution and support of the Bank over the past several years has been of great value.

Of great importance is the constant policy dialogue that has been between the
Government of Mexico and the Bank, as well as the policy dialogue among the different
areas of the Government. Exercises such as this loan, the studies and publications and, in



                                                 28

particular, instruments such as Doing Business improve the analytical basis for decision-
making, promote the sharing of experiences and knowledge and allow the identification
of areas of opportunity in which the country should continue to work. The dialogue,
exchange, suggestions, and lessons in general have been enriching.

Although this loan did not result as originally foreseen in a DPL series, since the second
stage was not carried out, and this situation appears as a lack of continuity of the project
in this document, the commitment of the Government of Mexico to continue to promote
the competitiveness of the country continued in a slightly different form as mentioned
above. Furthermore, it is important to mention that, far from being truncated, the
government's work in competitiveness initially supported by this loan continues.
Examples of this continuity include work undertaken to strengthen customs and the
competitiveness of the information technology sector, supported by two loans.




                                            29

Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NA




                                    30

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

IBRD Report No. 34570-MX. Program Document for a Proposed First Programmatic
Competitiveness Development Policy Loan in the Amount of US$300.76 million to the United
Mexican States, February 2, 2006

IBRD Report No. 42848-MX. Country Partnership Strategy for the United Mexican
States for the Period FY2008-2013, March 4, 2008

IBRD Doing Business 2009, Country Profile for Mexico

IBRD Report 35388. Mexico's Competitiveness: Reaching its Potential, September 8,
2006

World Economic Forum. Assessing the Foundations of Mexico's Competitiveness:
Findings from the Global Competitiveness Index 2007-2008

World Economic Forum. Global Competitiveness Report 2008-2009




                                          31

                                                         Annex 7. Bank-Supported Matrix

                                                                       Future Development Areas                                Expected Outcomes and
        Actions for Board Approval
                                                       Triggers for Second DPL                Medium Term Actions                Monitoring Indicators

                                                    Innovation, Technology Development, and Training
1. Promote technological innovation (scale-    1. Promote technological innovation by     Strengthen and scale-up          Increased technological
up existing and launch new innovation          conducting performance evaluations of      business innovation Funds        innovation as evidenced by:
programs to promote technology absorption      the CONACYT and Under Secretariat for      and other programs.              ·Number of technology based
and high-value added technology-based          SMEs related programs, with the aim to                                       projects that attract private
business initiatives) through launching and    consolidate funding, increase              Strengthen the infrastructure     investment
operating Program AVANCE, comprising           effectiveness and reduce non-performing    of technology services.          ·Total and Private R&D
Ultima Milla and Emprendedores (Venture        funds; and initiating programs to improve                                    spending as percent of GDP
Capital Fund) initiatives; creating a National linkages between the science community                                      ·Number of consortiums and
Business Incubation System (SNIE) and          and businesses, including the Program to                                     firms integrated in consortiums
Acceleration Program; and launching an         incorporate Scientists, Technologists and                                   ·Number of new businesses
internet portal for the SNIE in Spanish and    High-Level Human Resources in                                                created in high-tech incubators
English.                                       Industry; Consortia and technology
                                               networks program (public-private
                                               partnerships).
2. Improve training and education levels of    2. Improve training and education          Improve efficiency and           Improved training and education
the workforce through the contracting of a     levels of the workforce through the        expand coverage of the PAC       levels of the workforce, as
study to evaluate the impact of the PAC        implementation the recommendations of      training program; and issue      evidenced by:
training program from 2002 to 2004, and        the impact evaluation study of the PAC     280,000 secondary education      ·Productivity improvements of
issuing 200,000 secondary education            program; and issuing 240,000 secondary     certificates per year to out-of-  workers trained through PAC
certificates during 2005 to out-of-school      education certificates during 2006 to out- school population aged 15 to      and decline in overhead costs;
population aged 15 to 34 years.                of-school population aged 15 to 34 years.  34 years.                        ·Number of firms benefiting
                                                                                                                            from the PAC training program
                                                                                                                            per year
                                                                                                                           ·Number of secondary education
                                                                                                                            certificates issued by INEA to
                                                                                                                            out-of-school population aged
                                                                                                                            15 to 34 years




                                                                              32

                                                                         Future Development Areas                               Expected Outcomes and
         Actions for Board Approval
                                                         Triggers for Second DPL                Medium Term Actions               Monitoring Indicators


                                                                        Investment Climate
3. Reduce the cost of doing business            3. Facilitate new business entry by         Increase the scope of the       Reduce the cost of doing business
through: implementing the SARE (Rapid           increasing the SARE implementation          SARE to include moderate        as evidenced by:
Business Opening System) in 85                  total to 100 municipalities, covering 40    risk sectors and implement a    ·Number of municipalities with
municipalities: and COFEMER's evaluation        percent of the country's GDP; and           SARE and RIA performance         the SARE.
of 355 Regulatory Impact Assessments            designing instruments and a methodology     evaluation system.              ·Reduction in the average time to
(RIAs) in 2005, with the objective of           to measure the performance of the SAREs                                      open a business from 52 days to
improving the cost-benefit analysis of          and of the RIAs.                                                             72 hours
regulation.                                                                                                                 ·Percentage of regulations issued
                                                                                                                             by regulatory agencies
                                                                                                                             complying with COFEMER's
                                                                                                                             comments
4. Strengthen economic competition though       4. Strengthen the economic competition      Support for the                 Strengthen economic competition
the promotion of homogeneity of competition     policy and its application through          implementation and              as evidenced by:
criteria within the Public Administration by    approval of the proposed amendments to      application of the Federal Law  ·Time to resolve monopoly cases
establishing Cooperation Agreements in 15       the Federal Law on Economic                 on Competition through           by CFC
states and with COFEMER, CRE, and               Competition by the Congress.                training and diffusion efforts. ·Percentage of fines that have
PROFECO.                                                                                                                     been collected

                                                                Logistics and Trade Facilitation
5. Streamline trade procedures and lower        5. Streamline trade procedures and          · Convergence with the Most     Streamlined trade procedures and
trade costs by reducing tariffs between 3 and  lower trade costs by simplifying non-          Favored Nation tariff levels  lower trade costs, as evidenced
10 points on more than 9,000 tariff lines in    tariff regulations; further strengthening     with the U.S.                 by:
the Mexican tariff schedule (this reduction     export promotion programs (PITEX and        · Adopt the best foreign trade  ·Level of convergence of
affects 76% of all tariffs in the schedule);    Maquiladoras) to increase benefits;           regulatory practices for the   weighted average tariffs in auto
simplifying requirements for export             including other agencies (SALUD,              whole federal government       and electronic sectors between
enterprises to import inputs (6,500 PITEX       SAGARPA, NOM's, etc.) in the                                                 Mexican and U.S. import tariffs
and Maquila enterprises benefited, 90 percent   paperless program; implementing the         · Operation of 100 percent of
                                                                                                                            ·Time and cost of meeting non-
of manufacturing exports); implementing         Foreign Trade Law so that federal             the instruments and            tariff regulations with adoption
"Operation Paperless" in SICEX for              agencies administer non-tariff regulations    programs of the Secretariat    of paperless transactions
operation reports, import license applications, electronically; assisting in the              of the Economy in the          andVentanilla Única
etc. including pilots in SICEX of new SE        implementation of the Deputy Chamber          paperless trade program.
                                                                                                                            ·Number of firms that reduce
paperless instruments (quotas, certificates of  initiative which allocates resources to     · Broaden and strengthen the     logistics costs more than 15%
origin, etc.); and implementing the Logistics   agencies that oversee trade regulations for   Logistics Practices            through Logistics Practices
Practices Innovation Program in 92              information infrastructure (SAGARPA,          Innovation Program.            Innovation Program
businesses.                                     SALUD, AGA, SEMARNAT, etc.); and                                            ·Establishment of a single set of
                                                broadening and strengthening the            · Establishment of Ventanilla    non-preferential rules of origin
                                                Logistics Practices Innovation Program.       Única



                                                                                 33

                                                                        Future Development Areas                                 Expected Outcomes and
         Actions for Board Approval
                                                       Triggers for Second DPL                Medium Term Actions                 Monitoring Indicators
6. Facilitate customs clearance by            6. Expand the "Inter-Secretarías             Completion of implementation     Facilitate customs clearance as
establishing interconnectivity among various   Information System" by linking:             of "Inter-Secretarías            evidenced by the ratio of
secretariats involved in customs procedures    SAGARPA information system (2006);          Information System":             inspections that require custom
("Inter-Secretarías Information System")--     automatic notification information          incorporation of the rest of the clearance carried out in 3 hours or
specifically incorporation of Pitex, Maquila,  (2006); and NOMS SEMANART and the           regulations.                     less
and PROSEC information; and incorporation      Tequila Regulatory Council (2007).
of quota administration information.
7. Improve the quality of port services by    7. Improve the quality of port services      ·   Expansion of the port        Improve the quality of port
moving PFP and PGR control outside the         by defining port community information        community information          services as evidenced by the
port areas; installing scanners in main        systems norms and implementing them           systems to major ports         average time a container stays in
commercial ports; coordinating inspections     in 3 ports, reducing the percentage of      ·   Joint inspection of          port for the largest container ports
among sectors (AGA, SEMARNAT,                  prior inspections, and improving the          containers by all relevant     in Mexico
Customs Agents, etc.); modernizing customs     coordination of official agencies within      entities.
facilities (buildings, video, dynamic scales,  ports; harmonizing and increasing service
etc.); and completion of the "Efficiency and   hours of port authorities and operators.
productivity study of the port of Veracruz."


                                                                             Energy
8. Implement transparency measures and         8. Increased transparency on electricity    Design and introduce a           Improved transparency measures
regulatory instruments for the energy          pricing and quality through publishing      functioning monitoring and       and regulatory instruments as
sector through the integration of an inter-    an agreement by SENER with the              verification system for the      evidenced by:
institutional regulatory accounting working    regulatory accounting elements; issuing a   energy sector.                   · Creation of regulatory
group (comprised of SENER, CFE, Luz y          COFEMER agreement to increase                                                  accounting framework
Fuerza, CRE) to implement the measures         transparency regarding costs; and                                            · Progress in implementation of
established in the "Plan de Acciones           publication of cost, management, quality                                       regulatory accounting
Concretas en Materia de Mejora Regulatoria     of service indicators for the electricity                                      framework (%)
que Forman Parte de la Agenda                  sector; official publication of                                              · Comprehensive list of
Competitividad Inmediata en Materia de         performance indicators for PEMEX; and                                          standardized performance and
Energía" (published in the DOF on August       official publication of the regulations for                                    quality indicators (completed,
11, 2005; issuance of a status report on       the operation of hydrocarbon sector.                                           not completed)
quality and performance indicators for the                                                                                  · Number of permit holders in
electricity sector; and program for the                                                                                       compliance
evaluation of performance indicators for                                                                                    · Number of approved model
PEMEX.                                                                                                                        contracts
                                                                                                                            · Number of contracts complying
                                                                                                                              with terms and conditions
                                                                                                                              established




                                                                                34

    Annex 8. Indicators for Bank-Supported Competitiveness Program

                                                          Monitoring      Baseline
Indicators                                                     by:         (2005)        2007        2009
                              Innovation, Technology Development, and Training
Total R&D spending as a percentage of GDP                  CONACYT         0.48 %       0.52 %      0.54 %
Private R&D as a percent of total R&D                      CONACYT          38 %         40 %        42 %
Number of new consortia established (cum)**                CONACYT           2*            4          8
Number of firms integrated in new consortia (cum)**        CONACYT           6*           12          24
Number of doctoral and masters graduates incorporated
in firms (cum)**                                           CONACYT           0*           500        1000

Number of technology based projects that attract
private investment (cum)**                                 CONACYT           31           80         160

Number of new high technology business incubators
(cum)**                                                        SE             8           15          20

Number of new businesses created in high-tech
incubators (annual)**                                          SE            40           75         100

Number of annual secondary certificates issued to out-
of-school 15-34 year olds***                                  INEA         200,000     240,000      280,000
Increment in formal employment for INEA graduates
one year after receiving secondary certificates               INEA          12%          12%         15%
Increment in hourly wages for employed INEA
graduates one year after receiving their secondary
education certificates (compared to wages prior to
graduation)                                                   INEA          50%          50%         60%
Number of supported firms with training services              STPS          7,000       8,000       10,000
Increased efficiency in operation of the PAC program
as measured by declining overhead                             STPS           60           50          30
                                               Investment Climate
Percentage of regulations issued by regulatory agencies
with COFEMER's evaluation3                                 COFEMER          50%          60%         70%
Number of municipalities with the SARE                     COFEMER           85           100        175
Percentage of GDP covered by municipalities where
the SARE has been implemented***                           COFEMER           35           40          55
Average time to open a business in municipalities that
implement the SARE (Sistema de Apertura Rápida de                        52 (before
Empresas) (days)*                                          COFEMER         SARE)           3          3
Time to resolve monopoly cases by CFC (days)                  CFC           405           353        300
Percentage of fines that have been collected                  CFC            42           50          55




    3This indicator will be complemented by the following indicator as the methodology is developed:
    Percentage of regulations issued by regulatory agencies complying with COFEMER's comments.




                                                       35

                                           Logistics and Trade Facilitation4
 Percentage of inspections requiring customs clearance
 that are carried out in 3 hours of less                            AGA           84%            88%           90%
 Average time a container stays in port (hours)5                     SCT           32*            25            22
 Number of firms that reduce logistics costs more than
 15% through Logistics Practices Innovation Program
 (annual--not cumulative)                                             SE           85            100           135
                                                           Energy
                                                                                               Terms of     Completed
 Creation of regulatory accounting framework                      SENER           None        Reference     since 2008
 Progress in implementation of regulatory accounting
 framework (%)                                                    SENER             -              -           30%
 Comprehensive list of standardized performance and                               Status      Completed
 quality indicators (minimum of 20)                               SENER          Report         (100%)
 Number of permit holders in compliance (% of total
 number of permit holders)6                                       SENER           None           85%          100%
 Number of approved model contracts (% of contracts
 approved)7                                                       SENER           None           100%         100%
 Number of contracts complying with established terms
 and conditions8                                                  SENER           None           50%          100%
* Baseline data is for 2004.
** These numbers are outcome indicators of the specific GOM programs (CONACYT or SE) supported by
this loan.
*** These items are linked to Medium Term Indicative Country Targets in the 2004 Country Partnership
Strategy. Relevant CPS targets include:
     · 50% of the 150 largest municipalities implement single-point business registration systems;
          average number of days required to register a new business falls below 45 days.
     · Share of 15-19 year olds that have completed lower secondary reaches 75% (from 67% in 2002).




4It is anticipated that additional trade facilitation indicators will become available in the future as the
GOM's programs develop.

5This is for the main 4 container ports in Mexico: Manzanillo, Altamira, Veracruz, and Progreso.

6Refers to the LP Gas regulation.

7Refers to the agreement that establishes the regulation of first-hand sales of petroleum products.

8Refers to the agreement that establishes the terms and contractual conditions of the delivery-receipt of
petroleum products or basic petrochemicals obtained as sub-products from the production of non-basic
petrochemicals.




                                                        36

