                                                                                                    92485
Increasing Competitiveness and Productivity in Mexico
                                                                                                    April 24, 2006
MX Competitiveness DPL


Background                                                  Financing
The Mexican economy has improved over the last              IBRD loan amount: US$300.76 million
decade and extreme poverty has been reduced, but
the economy has not grown fast enough to                    Implementation period: Expected March
generate a significant number of jobs. Real GDP             14, 2006- June 2006

per capita grew by only 1.2 percent a year between          Geographical area: The whole country
1994 and 2004. In contrast, GDP per capita grew
by 3.3 percent in Chile, 7.7 percent in China, and          Implementing agency: Secretariat of
5.9 percent in the East Asia and Pacific region as          Economy
a whole.
                                                            More details
Productivity growth has also been disappointing and          Full project information & documents
Mexico has been losing its share of the U.S. import
market, mainly to China. In addition, various            
indicators of competitiveness show that Mexico is
                                                         
lagging behind, especially relative to per capita
income.                                                  

All of these results point to an urgent need to          
enhance competitiveness in Mexico if the country is
going to further reduce poverty. The World Bank is
supporting this goal through a three-phase
Programmatic Competitiveness Development Policy          
Loan (DPL).
                                                         
Program Objective
                                                         
To support institutional and policy reforms that will
                                                         
increase competitiveness and productivity in
Mexico.                                                  

Program Design                                           

The loan supports the following main activities:

a) promoting technological innovation, and
improving training and education levels of the
workforce;

b) reducing the cost of doing business, making it
easier to open a new business, and strengthening
economic competition;

c) streamlining trade procedures, lowering trade
costs; simplifying customs clearance and improving
the quality of port services;

d) improving transparency and introducing
regulatory instruments for the energy sector.

Expected impacts

       Measures aimed at reducing the cost of
       opening a business are expected to reduce
       fixed costs and the burden of bribery.
       Regularizing businesses should increase
       local government revenues and provide the
       fiscal space for municipalities to increase
       social investments.
       Improved application of the anti-trust law at
       the local level will help improve the business
       environment and market opportunities for
       small businesses.
       More efficient customs and ports will reduce
       corruption and allow businesses to speed up
       delivery times.
       The level and quality of jobs for skilled labor
       will improve.
       Increased trade is expected to bring long-
       term benefits in terms of competitiveness,
       economic growth, and job creation.
       In the energy sector, more transparency and
       accountability should help improve the
       efficiency and quality of service delivery.

April 2006
