Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7367-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Programmatic Competitiveness Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 24, 2006 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7367-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated April 24, 2006, entered into between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(
“Borrower”) represented through its signatory on page 6 of this Agreement and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the 
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million seven hundred sixty thousand 
Dollars ($300,760,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may cause NAFIN (pursuant to the 
Contrato de Mandato
)
to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to: (i) eighty five one-
hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which the Commitment 
Charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of the 
General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter; subject in 
either case to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank 
from time to time. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may cause NAFIN (pursuant to the 
Contrato de Mandato
)
to, at 
any time, request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in 
order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a 
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the 
Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions 
of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, at the request of the Bank, 
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—PARTICULAR COVENANTS 
 
4.01. 
(a) 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (
Contrato de Mandato
)
with NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
 
(i) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the Borrower vis-
à-vis the 
Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form and 
substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan 
proceeds and agrees to maintain and operate an account in compliance with the terms of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall cooperate fully with NAFIN to 
ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with all of NAFIN’s obligations referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato
 in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of 
Contrato de Mandato
.
In 
case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Contrato de Mandato
 and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
ARTICLE V
—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of the Program, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE VI
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
6.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the effectiveness of the 
Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 9.02 of the General Conditions, namely, that the 
Contrato de Mandato 
has been executed by the parties thereto. 
 
6.02. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of Section 9.02 of 
the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, 
namely, that the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank, issued by NAFIN counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the Borrower and NAFIN and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NAFIN in 
accordance with the 
Contrato de Mandato
’s terms. 
 
6.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen 
(18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on September 14, 2007. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
7.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the 
Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público
 of SHCP. 
 
7.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000
México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-9158-1156 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
7.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By
 /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has taken the following action to promote technological innovation in 
the Mexican economy:  (a) through CONACYT, launched and is implementing the 
AVANCE Program (including the 
Última Milla 
and 
Emprendedores 
(venture capital 
fund) initiatives); and (b) through its 
Secretaría de Economía
:
(i) the SNIE and 
related internet portal; and (ii) the Accelerator Program. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through its 
Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social
 and INEA, has 
taken the following actions to enhance training and improve the educational level of 
its workforce: (a) executed a contract to carry out an evaluation of the PAC between 
2002 and 2004; and (b) issued at least 200,000 secondary education certificates to 
out-of-school population aged 15 to 34 years, during the period of January 2005 to 
December 2005. 
 
3.  The Borrower, through COFEMER, has: (a) implemented SARE in at least 85 
municipalities; and (b) evaluated at least 355 Regulatory Impact Assessments in 
2005, with the objective to reduce transaction costs for the private sector and citizens. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through CFC, has executed separate cooperation agreements with 15 
selected states and with COFEMER, CRE, PROFECO to promote homogeneity of 
anti-trust criteria. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through the Industry and Commerce Subsecretariat of its 
Secretaría 
de Economía
,
has taken the following actions to streamline trade procedures and 
lower trade costs: (a) reduced by between 3 and 10 percentage points the duty on a 
total of 9,0
00 tariff lines in the Borrower’s tariff schedule; (b) simplified the import 
requirements for export enterprises; (c) implemented Operation Paperless in SICEX; 
and (d) implemented the Logistics Practices Innovation Program in 92 businesses. 
 
6. 
The Borrower, through the 
Administración General de Aduanas
,
has established an 
Inter Secretarías
 Information System with the purpose of establishing inter-
connectivity to link public entities involved in customs procedures, which program 
includes: (a) incorporation of Pitex, Maquila, and PROSEC information; and (b) 
incorporation of quota administration information. 
 
7.  The Borrower, through its 
Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes
,
has taken 
the following actions to improve the quality of port services: (a) has moved PFP and 
PGR control outside port areas; (b) installed scanners to expedite cargo processing in 
major commercial ports; (c) improved coordination among governmental agencies 
(AGA headquarters, SEMARNAT, and AGA local offices); (d) modernized customs 
facilities with new buildings and equipment (video and dynamic scales); and (e) 
carried out a study on efficiency and productivity in the port of Veracruz. 
Page  9
-
8
-
8. The 
Borrower, 
through 
its 
Secretaría de Energía
,
has taken the following actions to 
implement transparency measures and regulatory instruments in the energy sector: (a) 
integrated an inter-institutional regulatory accounting working group (comprised of 
SENER, CFE, 
Luz y Fuerza 
and CRE) to implement the measures established in the 
“
plan de acciones concretas en material de mejora regulatoria que forman parte de 
la Agenda de Competitividad Inmediata en Materia de Energía
”, published in the 
Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 on August 11, 2005; (b) issued a status 
report on quality and performance indicators for the electricity sector; and (c) created 
a
program for the evaluation of performance indicators for PEMEX. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may cause NAFIN (
pursuant to the Contrato de Mandato
)
to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and 
such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to repay the 
Program Preparation Advance and pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
              300,008,100 
Front-end Fee 
                    751,900 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
              300,760,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrowe
r’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
3. 
by way of a letter, the Borrower shall provide confirmation to the Bank when the 
loan amount has been credited to an account used to finance budgeted 
expenditures. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
Page  10
-
9
-
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2006. 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each February 15 and August 15  
 
Beginning August 15, 2011 
 
through February 15, 2021 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
Page  12
-
11 -
 
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
(a) 
“Accelerator Program” means 
Programa de Aceleración
,
the Borrower’s program 
established in 
Secretaría de Economía
 (as hereinafter defined) to support organizations 
specialized in identifying, attracting, financing and developing technology-based firms;  
 
(b) 
“AGA” or “
Administración General de Aduanas
”
means the Borrower’s General 
Customs Administration unit, as organized within SAT (as hereinafter defined) and the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;  
 
(c) 
“AVANCE Program” means the Borrower’s program established in CONACYT to 
support technology-based business, for the purpose of promoting technological 
innovation; 
 
(d) “CFC” 
means 
Comisión Federal de Competencia
,
the Borrower’s Federal Anti-Trust 
Commission; 
 
(e)  
“CFE”  means 
Comisión Federal de Electricidad
,
the Borrower’s Federal Electricity 
Commission; 
 
(f) “COFEMER” 
means 
Comisión Federal de Mejora Regulatoria
,
the Borrower’s Federal 
Commission for Regulatory Improvement; 
 
(g) “CONACYT” 
means 
Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología
,
the Borrower’s 
National Council for Science and Technology; 
 
(h) “
Contrato de Mandato
”
means the contract referred to in Section 4.01. (a) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(i) “CRE” 
means 
Comisión Reguladora de Energía
,
the Borrower’s Commission for Energy 
Regulation; 
 
(j) 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(i)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(ii) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, raw or 
worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(iii) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(iv) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(v) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(vi) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds during the procurement or 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation; 
 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
(k) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the modifications 
set forth in Section II of this Appendix; 
 
(l)  
“INEA”  means 
Instituto Nacional para la Educación de los Adultos
,
the Borrower’s 
National Institute for Adult Education; 
 
(m) “
Inter Secretarías
 
Information System” means the Borrower’s system established in 
AGA for the purpose of linking information systems among agencies dealing with border 
clearance; 
 
(n) 
“Logistics Practices Innovation Program” means the Borrower’s technical assistance and 
training program for small and medium enterprises to lower trade and logistics costs; 
 
(o)  
“
Luz y Fuerza
”
means 
Compañia de Luz y Fuerza del Centro
,
the Borrower’s electricity 
company providing service to Mexico City; 
 
(p) 
“Maquila” means the Borrower’s program to expand trade opportunities for firms by 
allowing temporary import of foreign components for export outside the Recipient’s 
territory; 
 
(q) “NAFIN” 
means 
Nacional Financiera
,
S.N.C. a Mexican development bank serving as 
the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan; 
 
(r) 
“Operation Paperless” means the Borrower’s program under SICEX for electronic filing 
and approval of operation reports and import license applications; 
 
(s) “PAC” 
means 
Programa de Apoyo a la Capacitación
,
the 
Borrower’s training and 
support program aimed at offering training to small and medium-size enterprises on a 
cost-sharing basis, for the purposes of improving the skills of their workers; 
 
(t) “PEMEX” 
means 
Petroleos Mexicanos
,
the Borrower’s Hydrocarbons Company; 
 
(u)  
“PFP” means 
Policía Federal Preventiva
,
the Borrower’s Federal Preventive Police; 
 
(v)  
“PGR” means 
Procuraduría General de la República
,
the Borrower’s Attorney General 
Office; 
 
(w) “Pitex” 
means 
Programa de Importaci
ón
Temporal para Producir Artículos de 
Exportación
,
the Borrower’s program to temporary import to produce export products; 
 
(x) PROFECO” 
means 
Procuraduría Federal del Consumidor
,
the Borrower’s Federal 
Agency for Consumer Protection; 
 
(y) 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter, dated January 27, 2006, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution; 
Page  16
-
15 -
 
(z)  
“PROSEC” means 
Programa de Promoci
ón
Sectorial
,
the Borrower’s sectorial 
promotion program; 
 
(aa) 
“Regulatory Impact Assessments” means the formal assessments of the costs that a new 
regulation imposes on the citizens or the private sector, compared to the potential benefits 
that such regulation may bring upon these constituencies, conducted by the issuing 
administration by means of a formal document, and reviewed by COFEMER according 
to its mandate given through the Borrower’s Federal Law of Administrative Procedures; 
 
(bb) “SARE” 
means 
Sistema de Apertura Rápida de Empresas
,
the Borrower’s Business Fast-
track Start-Up System; 
 
(cc)  
“SAT”  means 
Sistema de Administración Tributaria
,
the Borrower’s System for Tax 
Administration; 
 
(dd)  
“SCT” or “
Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes
”
means the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Transport and Communications; 
 
(ee)  
“
Secretaría de Economía
”
means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy; 
 
(ff)  
“
Secretaría de Energía
”
or “SENER” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy; 
 
(gg) “
Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social
,
means the Borrower’s Labor and Social 
Welfare Ministry; 
 
(hh) “SEMARNAT” 
means 
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources; 
 
(ii)  
“SHCP” means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance and Public Credit; 
 
(jj) “SICEX” 
means 
Sistema Integrado de Comercio Exterior
,
the Borrower’s Integral 
System of Foreign Trade aimed at reducing processing time for import and export 
permits; 
 
(kk) 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
 
(ll) “SNIE” 
means 
Sistema Nacional de Incubación de Empresas
,
the Borrower’s network of 
business incubators, established with the purpose of facilitating enterprise creation 
through the provision of physical space, access to equipment, training and advisory 
services. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
Page  17
-
16 -
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
Page  18
-
17 -
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
