Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 8481
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
UPPER MA£DALENA PILOT WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2069-CO)
MARCH 30, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Tis docment bas a rsticted diibton ad my be used by recipienb only In the perfomne of
ti offic  dutie. lt contens may not oterwie be dbdiid witho Wodd Dank suhoraizan



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency (Abbreviation) m Peso (Col$ )
Currency Exchange Rates:
Appraisal Year        1981:      US$1.00     =  Col$  57.27
Completion Year       1987:      US$1.00     =  Col$ 194.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS
FEDECAFE     -        Federation of Coffee Growers
HIMAT        -        Colombian Institute for Hydrology,
Meteorology and Land Improvement
ICA          -        Colombian Agricultural Institute
INDERENA     =        National Institute for Renewable
Natural Resources
SCF          =        Soil Conservation Fund
SENA         =        National Apprentice Service
PROCAM       -        Upper Magdalena Basin Project Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FO  OFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wusmgion. D.C. 20'33
USA.
0Sc ci O itd.Gwr
0p11 L bUaatmn
March 30, 1990
DORUANWt TO THE ECUIIT   DIRTRS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Colombia
Uoper Magdalena Watershed Project (Loan 2069-CO)
Attached. for information, is a copy of a report entitled *Project
Completion Report on Colombia - Upper Magdalena Watershed Project (Loan
2069-CO)' prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
No audit of this proj3ect has been made by the Operations Evaluation Depart-
ment at this time.
Attachment
This documont hmas  rstkftod distibuion od owa be uised by robits ob in tho pafonnune
of thei o&wX dudes its contenits nay amot oev be dassbsd witbout World Bsank aubont. 



FO OFFICIAL  E  ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR
COLWRIA
WMIN K4GDAL& PrAOT V*2ZUSM VANLOfhl PROJECT
(LOAN 2069-C_)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE  .....................  ....................................   i
BASIC DA..    ii
EVALUATION SU fMARY.  iv
I.       INTRODUCTION ..............................................  1
II.      PROJECT FO     R M U L ATION .......................................  1
A.  Identification, Preparation and Appraisal 1............. 
B. Project Objectives and Components .....................   2
C. Negotiations and Board Approval .......................   3
III.     IMPEMENTATION ............................................   3
A. Start-up.3.....................              .......    3
B. IMplementation Schedule ...............................   4
C.  Implementation of Project Components ..................   5
D. Costs, Disbursements and Financing ....................   7
E. Performance of Borrower and Consultants ............... 9 
IV.      INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE .................................  10
V.       BANK PERPORMANCE ..........................................  12
VI.      LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................  12
ANNEX I - Synopsis of Project Implementation Review (PIR)
Bogota, Colombia, May 1985 .............................  15
TABLES
1     Implementation Schedule ...................................  16
2     Original Estimate Project Costs & Financing Plan ..........   17
3     Estimated Yearly Expenditure, Financing & Actual
Expenditure .............................................  18
4     Withdrawals from Loan Account and Unused Balance    ..    19
COMMINTS FROM THE BORROWER
AMNEX 2 - Comments from INDERENA (Ministry of Agriculture).l.ture)*,  21
ANNEX 3 - Comments from the National Planning Department              23
___ -  IBRD 15847
This document has a rtticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the prformance |
of theit ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



- i -
PROJECT COMPtiON REPORT
COLOtIBI
UPPER W&ODALER  PILOT VATIRUD  NANsGUI    PROJECT
(LOAN 2069-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report on the Upper Magdalena Pilot
Watershed Management Project in Colombia (Loan 2069-CO) for which a loan of
US$9.0 million was approved on December 15, 1981.  Actual disbursements
were US$2.4 million with cancellation of the balance of US$6.6 million in
June 1987 and Joskuary 1988. The planned and actual closing date was June
30, 1987.
This report was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department III, of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regionai
Office on the basis of a PCR prepared by the National Institute of Renew-
able Natural Resources and the Environment (INDERENA) of June 1988. Other
sources of information for the Completior- Report were:  the President's
Report, the Project Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
with the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda as contained in relevant
Bank files; and discussions with Bank staff associated with the project.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached
to the Report (Annexes 2 and 3).



- 11 -
PIOJC COMLUUON 110?
COLCGZA
D iAGALu     PILT VA=           HAMMMEh   PROJSCT
(LowN 20L-LCO)
AIC  ATA_
AtUal   or        ctual a'
KEY PROJECT DATA                       Appraisal       Estimated         a S of
Estimate        Actual            Apprasll
Estimate
Projet Co" (US-Silion)                  27.a           8.1                as
Loan Amount (QS9 mlion)                  9.0           2.4                27
Dat Bord Approval                                     12/15,/1            -
Oats Effective_                    7/16/62             1/18/8             _
Closing Date                     6s/8"/ST             66/9/0 
Projoct 2PI)menvtaon Period                           a 68  6a            U
Econoeic Rao  of Return (5)              n.e.          n.a.
Institutbonal Performae          SatislZctory         Unsatisfactory
Numbr of Direct
Senicieries tamiles                    n.e.          n.e.
CUMULATIVE DIUIRSEIMT
fY82    fYU      FY      FYS    FY        FY87   Ff88
Appraisal Estimate (US sillion)             9.9      2.9    4.9      6.5    S.        9.6    -
Actual (USS million)                        -        0.75    1.12    1.85    2.16     2.16    2.87
Actal as a U of appraisal estima1           a       26      26      20      28       24      26
date of FItnl Disburesemit    9/08/67
Amount Cancel ld         US20.6 el IiIon
2/ Number of months fom effectiveness to Closing Date.



- III -
WSSC DATA (Cont'd)
MISSION DATA          DWU               No. of     Staff/Doys     Special  tlene       Performane               Typsei
misai n            (M0/yr)          Person       t In Field    Represented            Rating       Trend   Problhe
Ide ntif etion       e103/                1                           d                   -            .        _
Properietin           Is/$6               3            OJ               d,f,g              -             -       -
Preeppralsf           02/SI               2            14               d,uob.             -             -       _
Appraisal             84/81               4            26               d,f,unk.,unk.                    .       _
Post-N.gotltions      12/81               3            42               ,,i                -             _       _
Supervision  1        09/2                1            14               t                  2             1       IF
2        ea3/8              2             28              unk                 a            2       FUT
J        1 30/8             1             7               1                   2            1       FiT
4        42U14              a             42              i,a,j               2            2       TN
5        OC/84              1             7               b                   3            J sT
*        62/65              1             14              a                   a            2       MTF
7        04J/80             8             42              unk.                a            2       MTF
8        09J/8              1             7               h                   3            2       km
9        12/87              1             a               *                   -            _       _
OTHR SUPERV_SION DATA
Borroner         -   STITT  NACIONAL DE LOS RECU    RENOVA8lAS Y OMEL MOT0 AMBIETE (ZNDERENA)
Executiag Agency - INDERENA
STAFF INPUTS !i
FY81   FY62   FY63   FY84    FY85   FY66  FY87   FY38  To*aI
Preparation             In    -                                                       28.0
Appraisal               10.7    4.0                                                   16.2
Negotietion                    15.3                                                   15.3
Supervision              _        j    1380    21.0    10.7   15.6   260    3.7    94.1
Total (Staff-Weeks)     39.3   23.7    13.6    21f t     .?  1S 0   20.0    3.7   153.2
OLLOW-UP PROJECT
Statue:   na.
a - agriculturist; b * eonomist or agricultural econamist; c a finaneial analyst; d a minsion leader;
o I irrigation enginoer; f a environment nginwer; g a watershed management; h a livestock specialist;
I  forestry specialist; I a MAE specialist.
k/ 1 = problem free or minor problems; 2 a moderate problems; 3 * mnjer problems.
c/  1 a improving; 2 a stationary; 3 M worening.
MI  N * managerial; F a finantial; T a tecnical.
*/ Coebined Supervision *nd Midterm Evaluetion.
! Source: TRS data Information from LACCA.



- iv _
PROJC  COMPLETION RORT
COLWSI&
VPR KABDALUE  PILOST UIEUD WNZAGU T PROJC
(LOAN 2069-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Obiectives
1.       This project was the first watershed management project financd
by the Bank in Colombia. It vas designed as a first phase pilot scheme
intended to serve as a model for major watershed protection efforts in the
future. The project provided funds to develop viable farming and tree crop
systems, as well as institutional mechanisms for carrying out soil
conservation and erosion control and maximizing the long-term economic use
of soils and water. The project was to test production and conservation
measures (reforestation, civil works, modified land use practices, and
forest protection measures) to determine feasible and low cost ways of
introducing soil conservation technology to farming and for watershed
protection. The project was also to provide the necessary information to
prepare a follow-up, larger project covering the entire Upper Magdalena
River Basin (para. 2.02). In fact the pilot project, with its many
innovative features, raised expectations and hopes for replication in other
parts of the world. But the people directly involved in this operation
realized from the outset that the project would not be easy to implement.
The implementation experience highlights the numerous obstacles facing
project implementation which culminated in project closing as planned (June
30, 1987) despite a Government request for extension (para. 3.06).
Implementation Exoerience
2.       Slow implementation and delays of sometimes more than two years
plagued the project from its inception. All this resulted in lower project
costs and, ultimately, in reduced use of Bank funds. Of the US$9.0 million
loan, only US$2.4 million was disbursed during the 5-year implementation
period (para. 3.16). Institutional instability was one of the main reasons
for slow implementation and delays (para. 3.05 and 3.20). Some assumptions
that Bank staff made did not materialize which adversely affected project
implementation, i.e., the implementing agency, National Institute of
Renewable Natural Resources and the Environment (INDERENA), was expected to
be able to overcome its organizational deficiencies; INDERENA was to
introduce a salary supplement system; and local participation was to have
been mobilized through the provision of agriculture credit and an incentive
system (paras. 3.08, 3.09, 3.15 and 3.21). Critical consultant hiring was
slow, and inadequate time frames were set, further adversely affecting
project implementation (para. 3.22).
3.       Coupled with these problems were the issues of management
instability in INDERENA (para. 4.02), no perceived sense of purpose in the
Project Unit (para. 4.04), an apparent lack of commitment of the General
Manager of INDERENA (para. 4.05), and weaknesses in INDERENA*s



-v-
administrative and financial procedures (para. 4.06). These all led to
shortfalls in targets. On-farm investments amounted to only l'S$400,000, far
below the estimated US$8.9 million, with nnly 52 of expected farmers
bonefitting from credit (para. 3.08). The incentive system was difficult
to implement: downstream beneficiaries were reluctant to contribute
voluntarily for upstream work since they were not able to see tangible
results. Total receipts from contributors amounted to only Col$ 28.3
million as compared to an estimated Col$ 150.0 million (pars. 3.09). Only
148 ha of forests were planted as compared to the estimated 660 ha (para.
3.10). For the civil works and river control schemes, 77? of the estimated
works were designed but only 92 were completed (para. 3.11). Actual
achievements in terms of agricultural production exceeded appraisal
estimates by approximately 162, but increases in production were more for
development of cattle, pasture and annual crops, rather than for erosion-
control, tree crops as had been planned. This target was hampered by the
non-availability of agricultural credit (paras. 3.08 and 3.13). No
environmental protection control units, designed to provide overall
protection to the major forest reserves in the watershed areas of rivers,
were established (para. 3.12).
Results and Sustainability
4.       The main objective of the pilot project was to collect data ard
develop technical packages for formulation of a second phase project. For
thia, the effective operation of a monitoring and evaluation system (M&E)
was essential, but no M&E system was ever established. The absence of such
a unit was one of the main reasons why the project could not keep its
activities in perspective, and achieve replicable watershed management
strategies. The farm models submitted by INDERENA for loan effectiveness
were inadequate and were to be refined during implementation. It was
envisaged that they would be the basis for monitoring and evaluating the
viability of the proposed erosion control practices. No refinement of the
farm models took place. Overall, no useful work on the preparation of a
Phase 1I large-scale project was done (para. 3.15). Because of the
problems cited above and the limited achievements, there is little
possibility that any of the benefits would be sustained. However, an
important question is vhether the pilot project did, in fact, alter
perceptions and attitudes of Colombia's decision-makers about the
importance of watershed management. The answer appears to be a qualified
yes. Colombia is in the final stages of preparing its tropical forest
action plan, including sizeable programs for watershed management. The
Bank has been asked to review the program with the objective of developing
a Forestry and Watershed protection project. Identificetion is to begin in
April 1989.
Lessons Learned
5.       Major lessons which can be learned from the project are:
(a) Pilot projects are an appropriate means for testing the
feasibility of a proposed larger program. In this case, proiect
failure on a larger scale could have been ^'itastrophic. However,
based on the actions taken by the Government in recent years, it
is apparent that policy makers in Colombia are much more -ware of



- vi -
the importance of watershed management.  The project, along with
this greatly increased public awareness of the problem, have
contributed to this.
(b) Pilot projects designed to develop and introduce new technology
must be as carefully designed as for larger investment projects.
There must be a clear-cut master plan, well understood by the
implementing agency and other technical people involved. Above
all, the sense of purpose must be clear. The question 'What did
we learn, how does it fit in the context of the project, and how
does this data serve in the design of the larger project?" was
seldom asked by the staff of the Project Unit (PROCAM).
(c) The project experience underscores the importance of having
commitment and leadership within all involved agencies, in order
to reach project objectives (para. 4.05).
(d) The project highlights the importance of vigorously enlisting
farmers' participation. Apart from having appropriate technology,
farmers need to be convinced of the benefits of introducing
erosion control measures. New packages have to be implemented by
farmers after proper training and continuous extension
supervision. These generally must be accompanied by financial
incentives and the provision of agricultural credit. Failing
that, the technology will not be adopted by farmers.
(e) The importance of monitoring and evaluating progress during
implementation (para. 3.15) has again been brought out by this
project. The experience from this project reinforces the
impcrtance of taking the necessary steps, e.g., consultant
services, to ensure the establishment of an adequate monitoring
and evaluation system from ths commencement of the project (para.
3.22).
(f) Although many factors contributed to the failure of the project to
meet its objectives, the time frame set for developing the
appropriate tecbnology, and for finding ways of convincing farmers
of its worth, was too short. A much longer timeframe was needed
for bringing about the technological advances envisaged.



PROJE   COMPLETION REPORT
GOLOSIA
mPPER MAGDAJW  PILOT VATUSUD NANACUT PROJET
JLOAW 2069-CO)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     While the problems resulting from the denudation of forested
hillsides and the consequent erosion and water pollution were long
recognized as critical in Colombia, it was not until late in the 1970. that
Colombian leaders began to address the need for concerted action to prevent
further deterioration. The increasingly evident adverse results of
siltation (including more frequent flooding, shorter life of dams because
of siltation, and reduced water fl vs for hydropower generation and water
supply systems) contributed to the urgency of taking appropriate measures.
Nationwide electricity rationing, during 1980181, contributed to the
awakening of public interest to the need for watershed conservation and
management.
1.02     In 1968, INDERENA, the Instituto National de Los Recursos
Naturales Renovables y del Medio Ambiente (National Institute of Renewable
Natural Resources and the Environment), was established as a decentralized
government agency responsible for preserving and maintaining Colombia's
renewable natural resources and for protecting the environment. INDERENA
therefore was the appropriate agency to take the lead in formulating, and
be eLtrusted with the implementation of the first Colombian project devoted
exclusively to water resource management and environmental protection.
INDERENA had never been the beneficiary of a Bank loan, although it had
previously managed an environmental protection component under Loan
1996-CO, Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
A. Identification, Preparation and ADPraisal
2.01     The idea of concentrating resources on the Upper Magdalena
watershed was formulated in October 1979 by INDERENA, and discussed with a
Bai.k mission in November 1979. In early 1980, INDERENA decided to develop
a pilot operation to test an implementation system on a small number of
tributaries with the purpose of preparing a larger project to cover the
entire basin. A team was assigned to prepare the initial project in April
1980. At the same time, INDERENA requested Bank assistance for the pilot
effort (including funding for the preparation of a larger follow-up
project). The project was prepared by INDERENA with the assistance of some
participating institutions and two Bank missions. It was appraised by the
Bank in February and April 1981.



2-
B. Project Obiectives and Comoonents
2.02     Objectives.  The principal objectives of the project were to
develop, within four years, viable farming and tree crop systems. Also,
the institutional mechanisms for carrying out approp:rate soil conservation
and erosion control measures were to be developed. The project was to test
production and conservation measures (reforestation, civil works, modifying
land use practices, forest protection measures) to determine feasible and
low cost ways of introducing soil conservation to farming systems f.
overall watershed protection. The project was als- to provide the
neces;ary information to prepare a follow-up, larger project co-vering the
entire Upper Magdalena River Basin. An integral part of the project was to
determine the incentives required to motivate land users to adopt
conservation practices and an appropriate role for the public sector to
play in protecting the country's water resources.
2.03     Components.  The project components includeds (a) investments in
the three sub-watersheds, aimed at conserving soils and reducing erosion;
(b) research and studies to be carried out in part to evaluate investments
in the three sub-watersheds, but also to serve as inputs for future
watershed management projects; and (c) preparation of the second-stage
project. It was expected that, within four years, the investments and
research would provide a firm basis for managing the entire Upper Magdalena
watershed.
2.04     Proiect Management and Execution.  INDERENA was responsible for
carrying out the project. It was the principal executing agency and
coordinator of the various investments and studies. However, it had to
rely heavily on the specialized agencies which were to carry out individual
components. Agencies and other bodies participating in the project by
component were:
INDEREXA:                            Overall Management and
Evaluation
Microwatershed Research
Technology Development
Forestry Protection and
Control
Preparation of Stage U1
Policy Studies
Caja Agraria, Banco Ganadero2        Credit
Agricultural Institute (ICA)s        Extension
National Apprentice Service (SENA)s Training
Hydrology and Meteorology
Institute (HIMAT)s                Hydrometeorology
Federation of Coffee Growers 1
(FEDECAPE):                       Extension
lt Responsibility transferred to Comite Cafeteros Tolima and Huila.



C. Negotiations and Board A6proval
2.05     Loan negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. during
November 3-6, 1981. The loan was approved by the Board on December 15,
1981. During Board presentation the project, with its many innovative
features (especially the soil conservation fund), was highly acclaimed and
several Executive Directors expressed their hopes that the Bank would
replicate this project in other parts of the world: the pilot project
raised many expectations. However, the people directly involved in this
operation realized from the outset that this project would not be easy to
implement. Staff were aware that the risks of failure were many, even for
a small pilot project. However, because of its relatively small size, no
appraisal report was prepared. The President's Report contained little
technical information to guide 1IDERENA and the subsequent supervision by
the Bank. In retrospect, this was a mistake. Some of the technical
deficiencies in the project design, such as the constraints on credit,
would have been more evident if the discipline of preparing a full
Appraisal Report had been followed.
III.  IMPLEHENTATION
3.01     This chapter describes the extent of the physical accomplishments
that have come through from project implementation. These physical
accomplishments have limited value by themselvess they would have served a
purpose only if they were properly evaluated to form the basis for viable
large-scale watershed management and erosion control systems.  However,
neither asialytical expertise nor a proper evaluation procedure was
developed under the project.
A. Start-up
3.02     Project risks were cited in the President's Report as relating
principally to the ability of INDERENA to effectively mobilize the other
participating agencies and personnel necessary to achieve the complex goals
of the project. INDEREA's action was to be carried out through a Project
Unit (PROCAM)2 which was not given a large executing role. Its main
functions were coordinating, organizing and evaluating activities to be
carried out by other institutions and INDERENA's departments in the field
(para. 2.03).
3.03     In order to accelerate the start-up of the project, several
conditions of effectiveness were set.. It was essential that preliminary
steps be taken to create the PROCAM and recruit the appropriate staff, both
for the Project Unit in Bogota and for the two field offices in the
departments of Tolima and Huila. INDERENA was to negotiate and sign the
subsidiary project agreements with the involved institutions: ICA
(Extension), HIMAT (Hydrometeorology), SENA (Training), and the
Cooperation Agreement with Caja Agraria (credit). Some of these actions
were made conditions of effectiveness, including the appointment of the
Project Director and the Research Coordinator. Another condition of
effectiveness was the submission of farm models, of scope and detail
satisfactory to the Bank.
2/ PROCAM (Proyecto Cuencas de Alto Magdalena) was the name given by
INDERENA to the Project's Implementation Unit.



-4-
3.04     The reason farm models were given such importance by BaniK staff,
was because of their concern that viable water management systems could
only be evaluated on the basis of final return to farmers. It was felt
that the establishment of well-conceived farm models, and the monitoring of
their progress throughout the years, was the only way to ascertain the
success achieved in better farming associated with erosion-control. This
assum'' he provision of proper extension, agricultural credit, and
incentives, which unfortunately was not the case under this project.
B. Imilementation Schedule
3.05     The effectiveness date was postponed four times, totalling 6
months, to enable INDERENA to complete the requirements for effectiveness.
The conditions were finally met in January 1983. However, the farm models
submitted, while accepted to speed up effectiveness, needed more work and
it was agreed these would be refined during project implementation. The
loan became effective on January 13, 1983, and was immediately followed by
amendments to the Loan Agreement on March 16, 1983 to postpone compliance
dates for several implementation actions which had passed due to delays in
the loan becoming effective. From the outset, therefore, the time-span
originally set for the project to achieve its goals, was reduced by about a
year, making its implementation even more problematic.
3.06     Imlementation leriod.  According to appraisal projections, the
project was expected to be completed by December 31, 1987, and the Closing
Date was to be June 30, 1987. The project was closed as originally
planned, despite a request by the Government to extend the loan. The
decision not to extend the loan was largely because the Bank doubted that
the Borrower could significantly improve the pace and quality of project
implementation, which was already two and a half years behind schedule. In
addition, because of the continuous and substantial devaluation of the
Colombian peso, coupled with the low foreign exchange component of the
project (36Z), it became clear that it would be impossible for the very
slow-moving project to use a meaningful portion of loan funds available in
U.S. dollars.  Only 26Z of the loan had been disbursed at the time of loan
closing. Finally, continuation of the project would have required its
reappraisal, followed by intensive supervision efforts by Bank staff, and
there was concern about the impact of such efforts on normal divisional
staff resources.



C. Imolementation of Proiect Components 3 4
3.07     On farm investments:  Credit was to be provided to farmers for
improving soil conservation practices. along with increasing production.
Essentially, the credit component was set up in the hope that it would be
an incentive for farmers in the project area (who had never had access to
credit before) to try new agricultural and soil conservation techniques.
Credit was critical to INDERNIA's analysis of watershed management from the
economic and financial points of view.
3.08     The President's Report did not foresee any difficulties in
obtaining credit for the project area farmers. But, in fact, credit could
not be mobilized, due to the characteristics of agricultural credit for
small farmers in Colombia. Credit for small farmers, through the
rediscounting facilities of the Central Bank, under Fondo Financiero
Agropecuario (FFAP), a special fund created for this purpose, is related to
specific agricultural commodities and activities. Soil management and
erosion control works were not among the activities included among FFAP
guidelines. Therefore Caja Agraria, the lending institution, was not able
to rediscount that credit. Collateral requirements of land ownership
proved to be another constraint which precluded Caja Agraria from lending
its own resources. While the project cost table projected Us$8.9 million
of on-farm investments, of which US$7.1 million was to be extended by
financial intermediaries. during the whole project life only the equivalent
of US$400,000 was made available by Caja Agraria.  According to INDERENA's
completion report, there were 270 users of credit (55? for agriculture, 10?
for reforestation, and 35Z for livestock) as compared to about 5,000
farmers Vhich were expected to benefit from credit. However, most of these
loans wero- to farmers who would have been eligible for credit without the
project.
3.09     In order to provide financial incentives to farmers who adopted
soil conservation practices, and to raise resources from project
beneficiaries, a Soil Conservation Fund (SCF) was to be established and
financed from contributions from downstream beneficiaries (rice growers,
electric utilities), who were to benefit from soil conservation and erosion
control work carried out upstream by the project farmers. The money
collected was to be distributed to the farmers carrying out these works.
The SCF was established and commitments from contributors (Association of
Farmers and Power Companies) for Col$ 60 million were received; both
actions were conditions of effectiveness. Total receipts during the
project life were estimated at Col$ 150 million, but in fact reached only
ColS 28.3 million. In retrospect, to expect downstream beneficiaries to
contribute voluntarily for up-stream work was overly optimistic, without
31  In the absence of monitoring and evaluation, it has been difficult to
make a reliable inventory of the project's physical achievements. All
the data reported by the supervision missions, and information in
INDERENA's completion report have been examined to compile the
project's physical achievements.
41 Table 1 summarizes physical achievements under the project compared to
project forecasts.



- 6 -
contributors being able to see tangible results. This in fact is virtually
impossible to achieve because short-term soil erosion/runoff benefits are
difficult to observe. Moreover, disbursement of incentives to farmers were
left to the extension agents, according to the criteria which were included
in the official Decree setting up the Fund. Determination whether works
carried out were eligible for reimbursement from the SCF proved to be
difficult to establish, as a system for the allocation of the resources
was not established until very late in the project's implementation. Only
56Z of the ColS 28.3 million collected was disbursed (Col$ 15.8 million),
representing slightly over 102 of forecasts.
3.10     Public Works.  Approximately 660 ha of forests were to be planted
on publicly owned lands for commercial exploitation and protection of
watersheds. In addition, a number of civil works for regulating river flow
and reducing sedimentation and flooding were to be carried out and tested
for cost effectiveness. Of the estimated 660 ha of reforestation, only
148 ha of forests were planted, and 280,000 of the targeted 1,273,000
seedlings were produced. Reforestation was not completed due to: the lack
of available land where the p'lot watersheds were located, the slowness in
works start-up, and the lack of information on appropriate forestry
species.
3.11     Civil Works.  For the civil works and river control schemes, it
was estimated that 22 works would be designed and constructed. Actually,
17 were designed, i.e.s
4 Intakes (sediment control basin);
7 River Structures to protect bridges, roads and riverside
property from torrential rains;
3 Flood Control Longitudinal Structures; and
3 Erosion Control checks in critical areas.
Of the 17 designs, however, only two were constructed. These were both
river control structures, in the Combeima and Yaguara rivers. In 1985, all
civil works were stopped, on orders from the General Manager of INDERENA,
who felt the project's focus should be more toward environmental protection
(para. 4.02, Annex 1).
3.12     Protection and Control.  INDERENA was to maintain two
environmental protection and control units to monitor and protect the major
forest reserves in the watershed areas of rivers, to enforce existing
environmental laws, and to manage two national parks established for their
protection. None of the environmental protection control units was
established.



- 7 -
3.13     Agricultural Production.  Erosion-control tree crops and other
agricultural expansion were scheduled to be developed as follows, with
actual achievements shown in the second columns
Planned          Actual
Cocoa (ha)                          200               33.5
Fruit trees (ha)                    200               37.5
Forestry Development (ha)           900              765.7
Coffee (ha)                          700              66.4
Cattle and pasture (ha)           3,400            4,233.8
Annual crops (ha)                    ---           1,122.5
3.14     Research and Studies.  Research and studies were undertaken on
hydrometereology, micro-watersheds, and forestry. Since these studies did
not begin until mid-1985, the two and a half year time frame was not
sufficient to complete the work. INDERNA intends to continue its research
in these areas.
3.15     Preparation of Phase II.  The main objective of the pilot project
was to collect data and develop technical packages for formulation of a
second phase project. For this, the effective operation of a monitoring
and evaluation system (MRE) was essential.  In fact, no M&E system was
established. This was one of the main reasons why the project could not
keep its activities in perspective, and achieve proper coordination in
developing replicable watershed management strategies. To that end, four
interrelated actions should have been developed: (a) implementing and
testing the technical and financial feasibility of agricultural practices
and farm models, taking into consideration soil conservation and erosion
control measures; (b) establishment of an extension service to promote
these techniques; (c) provision of agricultural credit to enable farmers to
carry out the recommended procedures; and (d) implementation of an
incentive system to indemnify farmers for that portion of their work (or
their investment) involved in conservation and erosion control. The
monitoring and evaluation system was to monitor and report on developments
and achievements as measured against farm model targets. Although INDERENA
did submit farm models for effectiveness purposes, it was recognized at the
time that these models had to be refined if they were to be useful. Such
refinement was not there and no useful work on the preparation of a Phase
II large-scale project was done.
D. Costs, Disbursements and Financina
3.16     Slow implementation resulted in lower project costs and,
ultimately, in reduced use of Bank funds. Out of the US$9.0 million loan,
INDERENA disbursed US$2.4 million during the 5-year implementation period,
as shown in the following table:



Actual Loan Disbursement (USS million)
FY82   FY83    FY84    FY85   FY86  mF7   FY88
Appraisal Estimate    0.9    2.0      1.9     1.7    1.5    1.0    -
Cumulative          0.9    2.9      4.8     6.5    8.0    9.0    -
Actual Disbursement  -        0.75    0.47    0.63   0.31   -       0.21
Cumulative           -      0.75    1.22    1.85   2.16   2.16   2.37
Actual as 2 of
Appraisal Est.          -    26      25      28      28     24     26
3.17     Original project cost estimates are detailed in Table 2, a
comparison with actual expenditure appears in Table 3, and the breakdown of
use of loan funds is in Table 4. The reasons for a reduced use of Bank
funds are as follows (a) the project had a late start, around 1-1/2 years
later than estimated at appraisal; (b) INDERENA's management, which changed
during the project, was not always committed to the design and hence did
not always push the project; and (c) by the time the first withdrawal
requests were received, the Colombian Peso had considerably devalued (about
Col$ 100 - US$l, as compared to Col$ 57 at appraisal). Because the foreign
exchange components of the projec; was small, less Bank funds were needed.
3.18     Total project costs were established at US$20.3 million, plus an
estimated US$7.0 million of on-farm investments to be financed by financial
institutions. The project costs of US$20.3 million were to be financed
equally by the Government (US$9.4 million) and the Bank Loan of US$9.0
million and the balance by project beneficiaries (US$1.9 million). In the
event, Bank funds used reached only about US$2.4 million (para. 3.16) and
the Government contributed about US$5.7 million to cover the actual total
project costs of US$8.1 million (Table 3). Agricultural credit mobilized
reached only US$0.4 million.
3.19     Except for one year, CY 1984, Government's contribution to project
costs was adequate to the extent that it was set at the level of INDERENA's
estimated expenditure. INDERENA was late in implementation and could not
make up for lost time, and devaluation was reducing the amount of U.S.
dollars that could be mobilized from the Bank loan. For example, the table
below shows INDERENA's requests from Government, and the effect of
devaluations



- 9 -
INDERENA'S PROJECT BUDGETING
Annual
Appropriation       In USS million        Appraisal Estimate
requested in       Exchange  Annual        of Project Costs
Year        (Col$ million)       Rate    Requirement  (in USS million)
1983             274              89          3.1             4.4
1984             352             114          3.1             4.3
1985             373             163          2.3             3.8
1986             435             200          2.2             3.4
Total        1,434                         10.7            15.9
In 1984 the Government allocated to INDERENA only US$1.6 million equivalent
of the Col$ 352 million (US$3.2 million equivalent) requested. But even
then, INDERENA was only able to spend US$1.3 million. The appropriated
figures included expected World Bank disbursements.
E. Performance of Borrower and Consultants
3.20     Borrower.  Slow implementation and accumulated delays of sometimes
more than two years plagued the project from its beginning.5 Institutional
instability (detailed in Section IV, Institutional Performance) was one of
the main reasons for the slow implementation and delays.
3.21     The President's Report cited:
"Project risks relate principally to the ability of INDERENA to
mobilize and lead effectively the other participating agencies and
personnel necessary for achieving the complex goals of the
project, never previously attempted in Colombia'.
In this context, Bank staff made several assumptions that did not
materialize, one of which was that INDERENA would be able to overcome its
organizational deficiencies. The other equally important one was
INDERENA's introduction of a salary supplement system to improve the
motivation of its staff. Based on supervision findings of scarcity of
high-level staff and discussions with the Project Unit Director, it was
proposed to implement a salary supplement system (the use of loan funds was
even considered) to attract and hold highly qualified professionals to the
Project Unit. Government never authorized such a scheme, as it was then in
the midst of austerity measures. In the meantime, the Project Unit lost an
important professional, and had difficulty in hiring well-qualified
replacements. Finally, the project design depended heavily on local
participation. To encourage coordination and participation at the local
level, regional coordination committees were to be established and include
representation of water users, project beneficiaries, regional political
5/ Delays were experienced in the studies, recruitment of personnel and
mobilization of agricultural credit.



- 10 -
leadership and organizations participating in the project. Very little
came out of these efforts as two actions to increase participation of
project beneficiaries, such as agricultural credit and the incentive fund
(para. '.15), did not materialize.
3.22     Consultants.  It took INDERENA three years to appoint the two
high-level professionals required under the loan: the Principal Consultant
for Watershed Management and the Senior Consultant for Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E). Although these consultants had large tasks to perform,
the Principal Consultant for Watershed Management was hired for only one
year and the M&E Consultant for only six months. Two Bank supervision
missions insisted that their contracts be extended to two years each, but
INDERENA did not react to this recommendation. The M&E expert left at the
end of his six-month assignment, without enough time to complete his
essential duties as he was assigned other tasks as well. As a result, by
project closing (June 1987), no Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was
operating in the Project Unit.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.01     To achieve the complex goals of the project, the project authors
pinned high hopes on INDERENA's ability to restructure itself and become
more efficient. This did not happen.
4.02     Management Instability.  The President's Report recognized that
INDEREMNA had generally been weak, but stated that, at the time of
appraisal, it was receiving increased support from the Government and was
improving its overall operational capacity. The report added that much
assistance was still needed and was to be provided under the loan. This
may have been true at the time the President's Report was being written,
but numerous subsequent changes increased INDERENA's weakness.  INDERENA's
inability to use the means provided by the loan, such as the hiring of two
consultants (para. 3.22) is an example of the problems encountered. The
General Manager, who initiated the project's concept and was effective in
promoting it, and his successor (who lasted only one year), left INDERENA
by the Fall of 1982, i.e., before loan effectiveness. The third General
Manager, who was instrumental in completing the effectiveness steps, and
who was starting to establish the implementation mechanisms, left in the
Fall of 1983, having lasted for only one year. The fourth General Manager,
serving for the following three years, did not agree with the project
objectives and appeared to have a restraining influence on the project's
development. This was highlighted by thn Bank during the Implementation
Review in Colombia in 1985 (Annex 1). W.ien the General Manager was
replaced in 1986 it was too late to salvage the project. In all, INDERENA
had five Generr.l Managers during the life of the project.
4.03     Slow Progress.  Progress vas very slow, even in preparing for
project implementation. This is evidenced in the reports of supervision
missions during that time. Considerable exchange of views (and
correspondence) were needed before the position of the Project Unit within
the INDERENA organizational chart could be defined. The Bank wanted the PU
to be fully independent from other departments of INDERENA, and for the



- 13 -
Project Manager to report directly to the General Manager. Although this
was achieved in the early stages of project implementation, the
interference of other departments (and Departmental Heads) never ceased,
and had a disruptive effect on project progress. The relatively large
budget of PROCAM was a constant source of irritation to the other
departments of INDERENA who did not see their role in the project.
Furthermore, the preparation team underestimated the difficulties that
INDERENA would face in attracting and keeping personnel of the calibre
needed for this challenging pilot project. Because of the budgetary
system, hirings could only be carried out when the budget was approved: in
general, this delayed the proper staffing by one year. Since very few
steps were taken before effectiveness, which was also delayed by one year,
adequate staffing was always two years behind, even in the few cases where
it was achieved.
4.04       Lack of Sense of Purpose.  Even the few senior appointments
made, such as a new Director of PROCAM, proved to be below the level needed
for implementation of this difficult pilot project. Although some physical
activities were started in the field and studies were carried out (some by
INDERENA but mainly by outside local consultants), there was no perceived
sense of purpose in PROCAM. The question: "What did we learn, how does it
fit in the context of the project, and how does this data serve in the
design of the larger project?* was seldom asked. During project
implementation, PROCAM had four directors and in our opinion none of them
were able to keep the project on track. More importantly, none were able
to coordinate the various activities and studies to embody these into the
concept of a large-scale project. Supervision reports indicate that this
sense of purpose was lacking and that the successive INDERENA General
Managers and Project Directors either lacked required technical background
or were unable to provide leadership.
4.05     Lack of Commitment. An important reason for the failure of the
project was the apparent lack of commitment by the General Manager of
INDERENA, appointed in October 1983, about nine months after the loan
became effective. This was the fourth General Manager that dealt with the
project since its conception. She and other high-level staff of INDERENA
tried to radically change project design and content to revert its
activities to environment and ecological objectives, Which they felt were
more in keeping with INDERENA's goals (Annex 1).
4.06     Administrative and Operational Weakness.  In other aspects also
INDERENA was not a satisfactory implementing agency. Its administrative
and financial procedures continued to be very weak. During loan
negotiations, in 1982, INDERENA insisted on having funds included to carry
out a study for the improvement and streamlining of its procedures, to
which the Bank readily agreed. It took INDERENA three years to carry out
the study, and implementation of recommendations was very slow. As a
result, project financial statements were always late and unsatisfactory.



- 12 -
V. BANK PERFORMANCE
5.01     The Bank took a risk in processing a project which, everybody
agreed, was at the limit of the knowledge as it existed in Colombia at the
time. The risk was compounded by entrusting project implementation to
INDERENA, which the Bank knew was weak and, as far as the technological
level required, inadequately staffed. In the Bank, and in Colombia, people
directly involved in this operation realized from the outset that this
project would not be easy to implement. Staff were aware that the project
needed further preparation, particularly in the development of viable farm
models for areas to be protected against soil erosion and which could serve
as the basis of watershed management systems.  While the project had many
promises in case of its success, the risks of failure were many.
5.02     Facing a slow moving implementation and, more importantly, the
lack of a unifying conceptual framework at the Project Management level
(which was essential to carry out project activities as originally
conceived), the supervision missions regularly alerted INDERENA senior
management on the need to achieve a firm grip on the project. Supervision
reports always contained a list of measures for implementation, of which
agreement was reached with INDERENA during that supervision, only to see at
the next supervision (usually six months later) those measures still not
enforced. As an example, the hiring of consultants for the critical
position of Watershed Management and MhE was mentioned in five different
supervision reports (or Aide Memoires), at different dates, to no avail.
In addition, many studies and consultants' reports were sent to the Bank
without PROCAM's evaluation of the contents. This imposed a heavy burden
on Bank staff.
5.03     The only measure open to the Bank in the face of such a situation
was to stop disbursement--and there were sufficient reasons to warrant such
a decision.  Covenants covering the hiring of experts for essential duties
such as watershed management and monitoringlevaluation, and for the
Improvement of INDERENA's administrative and accounting procedures, were
not respected by the Borrower in spite of warnings and the granting of new
deadlines.  More serious was the situation, which lasted two years, where
the General Manager of INDERENA openly disagreed with the project's
objectives.  By changing twice the Project's Manager within a year, the
project's progress was brought literally to a standstill.  Here the Bank
had two alternatives: stop the project and cancel the loan, or have
INDERENA continue implementing the project as originally conceived. The
Bank opted for the continuation of the project since the closing date was a
year away. A year later the Bank closed the project by not extending its
closing date (Annex 1).
VI. LESSONS LEARNED
6.01     Designing, organizing and implementing a pilot project intended to
serve as a model for major watershed protection and management in the
future is inherently a complex and difficult task. It is more so when it



- 13 -
is a pioneering attempt on the part of an agency which has still to reach
professional proficiency and organizational efficiency. The effort had to
be developed inside an underdeveloped institutional framework and a highly
bureaucratized and fragmented environment, one not susceptible to swift
change.
6.02     Taking the above into consideration, it appears that the risks
involved have been severely underestimated. Since on-farm experiments with
new packages aiming at erosion-control and watershed protection were
essential for any lessons to be learned, and replicated, this component
should have been better prepared. Extension, training, agricultural
credit, financial and other incentives should have been more carefully
orchestrated. INDERENA's Project Unit should have had the technical
proficiency to coordinate this development, and a monitoring and evatuation
system should have been in place to prepare initiating farm models (which
would have the analytical ability to monitor progress and s?sults).
6.03     All other components, such as civil works, research, and studies,
should have come to support the above, and not represent an end by
themselves. Without such a unifying conceptual framework, all activities,
whatever their intrinsic value, would not fit into the overall picture and
it would be difficult, if not impossible, to assess their contribution into
the design of a larger follow-up project. As things were left to unroll
without coordination, and a lot of resources investedi in works and studies
with a life of their own, the responsible team did not recognize that all
individual project activities were only justified t- the extent that the7
would help in the formulation of a project that could make sense, and could
be replicated on a larger scale.
Lessons Learned
6.04     Major lessons which can be learned from the project are:
(a) Pilot projects are an appropriate means for testing the
feasibility of a proposed larger program. In this case, project
failure on a larger scale could have been catastrophic. However,
based on the actions taken by the Government in recent years, it
is apparent that policy makers in Colombia are much more aware of
the importance of watershed management. The project, along with
greatly increased public awareness of the problem, have
contributed to this.
(b) Pilot projects designed to develop and introduce new technology
must be as carefully designed as for larger investment projects.
There must be a clear-cut master plan, well understood by the
implementing agency and other technical people involved. Above
all, the sense of purpose must be clear. The question 'What did
we learn, how does it fit in the context of the project, and how
does this data serve in the design of the larger project?" was
seldom asked by the staff of the Project Unit (PROCAM).



- 14 -
(c) The project experience underscores the importance of having
commitment and leadership within all involved agencies, in order
to reach project objectives (para. 4.05).
(d) The project highlights the importance of vigorously enlisting
farmers' participation. Apart from having appropriate technology,
farmers need to be convinced of the benefits of A.ntroducing
erosion control measures. New packages have to be implemented by
farmers after proper training and continuous extension
supervision. These generally must be accompanied by financial
incentives and the provision of agricultural credit. Failing
that, the technology will not be adopted by farmers.
(e)  The importance of monitoring and evaluating progress during
implementation (para. 3.15) has again been brought out by this
project. The experience from this project reinforces the
importance of taking the necessary steps, e.g., consultant
services, to ensure the establishment of an adequate monitoring
and evaluation system from the commencement of the project (para.
3.22).
(f) Although many factors contributed to the failure of the project to
meet its objectives, the time frame set for developing the
appropriate technology, and for finding ways of convincing farmers
of its worth, was too short. A much longer timeframe was needed
for bringing about the technological advances envisaged.



- 15 -
ANNEX 1
SYNOPSIS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW (PIR)
BOGOTA. COLOMBIA. MAY 1985
1.       A Project Implementation Review (PIR) of all agricultural projects
took place in Bogota at the end of May 1985. The Upper Magdalena Pilot
Watershed Management Report project turned out to be the most controversial
of those under review and took up most of the time involved in this
exeacise. The General Manager of INDERENA stated that the concept of the
project should be radically changed to environmental protection, instead of
watershed management. The arguments advanced were that the project put too
much emphasis on some physical achievements (such as reforestation), which,
while useful, were of little relevance; too much emphasis on credit,
obliging farmers to take out credit which they did not wavt M. need--
instead funds should be distributed free to the farmers; too complex and
too ambitious a project (no mention was made of the fact that this was
poorly conceptualized and designed and would fail; INDERENA did not have
the capacity nor the will to manage such a project; and, finally, as a
follow-up to the previous two concerns, the manager of INDERENA did not
want to be personally blamed two years down the road for that failure.
2.       The Bank's position was that lhe demand for a change of concept to
environmental protection would need to come officially from the Government,
if it so wished. From the Bank's perspective, integrated watershed
management and the search for economically-sound models of their
development continued to be an innovative approach to r serious problem in
Colombia, for which no solutions existed to date. As regards the failure
of the project, the Bank's position was that it may very well be that the
pilot project may not ccme up with a satisfactory solution to the problems
of watershed management.  But that in itself should not be ccnstrued as a
failure of the project. What would be a failure would be, if this pilot
project was not provided with the adequate support, resources, and
technical and managerial expertise--as has been the case heretofore--to
test the models being developed. And to do this, consultants should be
hired immediately. On receipt of their preliminary findings, the Bank
would mount an in-depth review which, in cooperation with the Government
and INDERENA, would review project targets and objectives but within the
original concept.
3.       At the PIR, the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Planning Department sided with the Bank's position. INDERENA's
management retreated from its original stated position and agreed to carry
on the project on the basis suggested by the Bank. Although the Bank's
delegation at the PIR felt that the agreement forced upon INDERENA to
continue managing the project had implicit risks on the likelihood of
success of the project, none of the alternatives examined offered any
realistic chance of eliminating (or reducing) those risks.



- 16 -
Table 1
COLOMBIA
UPPER MAGDALENA PILOT WATERSHED MAXAGEENT PROJECT
LQAN 2069-CO
Prolect ComIletion ReDort
Implementation Schedule
B. Actual
A. Targets       Achievements        2 BIA
Civil Works
I& River Control Schemes)
Design                             22                17            77
Construction                       22                 2             9
Public Works
Reforestation (ha)                660               148            22
Production of
Seedlings ('000)              1,273               280           22
Airicultural Development
Cocoa                            200                34            17
Coffee                           200                66           33
Tree Crops                       200                38            19
Forestry                         900               766            85
Pasture &
Yearly Crops                 3,400             5,356          158
Aaricultural Credit
Farmers                        5,000               270             5
Amount (US$ M)                     8.9               0.4           4
Incentives
Total (US$ M)                      2.8               0.5          18
Distributed                        2.8               0.3          11
Environmental Protection &
Control Units
Planned                           2                 0             0



COLOMBIA
UPPER MAGDALENA PILOT WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2069-CO)
Proiect ComPletion ReDort
Original Estimated Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
(in US$ '000 - includinx contintencies)
Estimated                                  Financial
Total           Financina              Institutions
Costs        Bank       Govt.         (Caia AQraria)   8eneficiaries
On-farm Investments                     8,900            -            -           7,000           1,900
Environment Protection E Control        2,300        1,125       1,175                -                _
Extension and Training                  2,000          980       1,020                -                -
Public Works                            1,80O          880         920                -                -
Research and Studies                    5,900        2,890       3,000                -                _
Project Management                      2,100        1,025       1,075                -               _
Preparation Phase II                    4.300        2.100       2200                 -               -
Total                           27.300         9.000       9.400            7.000           1.900
14



COLOMBIA
UPPE MAGDALENA PILOT WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECt
LOAN 2089-CO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Eatimated Yearly Expendlturoo Financing and Actual Expenditur.,
(In US$ Million)
1982     1903     Cum.     1904     Cum.      1985     Cum.     1986     Cum.     1987    TOTAL.
Eatimat.d Yearly Expenditure  s/       2.1      4.4      .6.       4.3     10.8      8.0     14.6      3.4     18.0       2.3     20.3
of whicht World Bank            0.9       2.0      2.9      1.9      4.8       1.7      6.5      1.5      0.0      1.0       9.0
Goverrnmant            1.2      2.4       8.6      2.4      6.0      2.1      8.1       1.9     10.0      1.3     11.3
2.1      4.4      6.5      4.8      10.8      8.8     14.8      3.4     18.0      2.8      20.3
Actual Expenditure  a/                 1.1      2.8      3.4       1.8      4.7      0.8      5.5      1.2      6.7       1.4      8.1
of which: World Bank             -       1.0      1.0      0.7      1.7      0.8       2.0      0.2      2.2      0.2       2.4
Government           1.1      0.9       2.0      0.8      2.8      0.8      3.6       1.0      4,6      1.1      5.7
1.1      2.0      8.0      1.5      4.5       1.1      5.0      1.2      6.8      1.3       8.1
a/  Without agricultural credi1t from financial Institutions eatimated at USS7.0 Million



COLOMBIA
UPPER MAGDALENA PILOT WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2069-CO)
Proiect Completion Report
Withdrawals from Loan Account and Unused Balance
(in US$ '000)
Loan Account Cateorv                Amount Available      Withdrawals        Balance
I.    Equipment & Vehicles                 2,200               344           1,856
II.  Consultant Services (Foreign)           800                               800
III.  Civil Works                            900               336             564
IV.   Research and Studies                3,200              1,424           1,776
V.    Training and Extension                 650               261             389
VI.   Unallocated                            500                 -             500
VII.  Initial Deposit                       750                                750
9.000             2.365           6,635
N.B.  The unused balance of US$6.6 million was cancelled in two steps, the first involving
US$5.7 million on June 18, 1987, and the remaining US$0.9 million in January 1988.



- 21 -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                                            ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
X         Instituto Nacional de los Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio Ambiente (INDERENA)
Ministry of Agriculture
Republic of Colombia
Bogota, Colombia
February 27, 1990
Dr. Graham Donaldson
OEDDI
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Sir:
We are writing with reference to your letter of January 4, 1990
and specifically to the Project Completion Report on the Upper Magdalena Pilot
Watershed Management Project (Loan 2069-CO).
Before presenting our objections to the report prepared by the
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department, we would like to express some
thoughts concerning the lessons to be learned from it by both the Bank and
Colombia.
The design of the watershed management project, specifically the
Upper Magdalena project, originally included a list of development and
research activities that did not in themselves tie in with the agreed purpose
of the project.
We also feel that a project that fails to enlist from the outset
the participation of the small farmers who use the natural resources in the
upper areas of the watersheds can hardly be expected to be successful.
The project design also assumed that the institutions in an
interinstitutional project such as this would be highly efficient
administrative entities but in actual fact they had the same technical,
administrative, financial and operational limitations as did INDERENA. We
conclude that the main problem facing this interinstitutional project was the
general structure of the country's administration.
Finally, we want to highlight the observation made in the PCR that
some of the project's technical deficiencies could have been foreseen if an
appraisal had been carried out in advance, which would have ensured that a
monitoring and evaluation system was established right from the start.



- 22 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
All that remained for the present administration to do was submit
a final project report to the Bank, since the request it made for an extension
was turned down for financial reasons.
The country, in general, and INDERENA, in particular, recognize
the positive experience gained from this project. In keeping with the
Government's current decentralization policy, the project for the conservation
and management of micro-watersheds serving municipal water supplies is being
carried out in conjunction with the mayors of municipalities and with
communities that have organized themselves into "Green Lobbies" (Cabildos
Verdes]. The project has been well received by itself and as a step toward
the preparation of the third phase of the DRI and the formulation and
implementation of the Forestry Action Plan for Colombia.
Regards,
Isl   German Garcia DurAn
General Manager
1



- 23 -
COMMENTS PROM THE BORROWE                                          AID= 3
rage .iJ Of 2
Republic of Colombia
National Planning Department
SISEP 00-014-90
Bogot&, February 15, 1990
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture, Infrastructure and
Human Resources Division
OED
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
With reference to the PCR on the Upper Magdalena Pilot Watershed
Management Project (Loan 2069-CO), we should like to offer the following
comments:
1.          The lack of political and institutional support for the project,
largely the result of the constant changes of management at
INDERENA, was one of the factors that affected the progress of
PROCAM. During the five years of project execution there were
five general managers, all of whom approached the project
differently, one of them even going so far as to propose a change
of objectives.
This resulted in weak institutional leadership, affecting
coordination both among the participating agencies and within the
X                     Institute itself.
2.          The innovative nature of the project, both for the executing
agency and for the country itself, together with the fact that it
was an experimental and pilot venture, making it more of a
research project, meant that a stable administrative structure and
efficient technical expertise were called for, with high-level
professionals capable of guaranteeing solid results that would be
replicabl]e for other watershed management projects throughout the
country. The Institute, largely because of the above-mentioned
management instability, was unable to give the project the
support, stability and continuity necessary to the achievement of
its original objectives.



- 24 -
AMEX 3
page 2 of 2
3.          A rigorous monitoring and evaluation system should have been set
up on both the scientific and the operational sides, but this was
not provided for in the project. This situation led to a lack of
rigor in project implementation and to deviation from the original
objectives.
4.          In terms of actual achievements, the report notes that the project
did succeed in changing the perceptions and attitudes of the
Colombian authorities towards watershed management.   The Forestry
Action Plan is an expression of the government's interest in
projects geared to uatural resource preservation, with particular
attention to watersheds.
Very truly yours,
/a/ Luis Bernardo Fl6rez Enciso
Department Head



COLOMBIA
UPPER MAGDALENA WATERSHED
MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
ToTrun.wg
L, N T I 0 Q U   A                                of
o                       I             I" l"s:   8,  
*1 NC 'i N  D I-"                                                       N
t  \  z       ,       7 iP~~~OGOT       _             j
A.  ,8                   T latEl     /  u         IuA  
R  S  .D A  *.   kCOMBEIMA                               M    E    T
D emp.  j1    WATERSHED
S ~~~~~. ~~IBAGE E                adt-.l
rrmenia                l           s                             Pilot Watersheds          HYDROPOWER PROJECTS
<= |    Reservoir                 Optiotal .......... 601 MW.
SevlaM   -National Capital       U Under Construction .. .1.267 MW.
LJ~~~~~~~  ~ ~  ~     0     CtisUnder Study......976 MW.
El 1t        n      /SF \     I   ,I    Seleeeds  R$             Under Survey ..    . 643 MW.
;   N  C t  t   e    Si   --    ivws  Total Installed Capacity 8,487 MW.
Atlu  <t°rc    0l,                 .* r. n       -t  j  Basin Boundary
TUIWJ   Y g          =   a        \  , *-   Q       d          Deportment Boundaries
'uga                                                                       0 \'<  KILOMETERS 0  25    SO    75    100
C X   bJ  /    \   T lb  /     MILES O        2S
A      / %  °  bfn   5  \ 1 t .A CE18 
SPalmsira                    NE, 0                                                         WM..* '
i                 ~~~H  U  I    . 
gi  ._          Dt ~~~~~~YAGUARA                                                  V  3 )8 *_.  _ _'_, _
CAL    -              0ir21Aw
tander                           B IA YDROPOWER PROJECT
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~'0    Fior  .z:,                 )   C~~OLOMBAg
B s. A:
K0AR Base    0030



