Document of
The World Bank                      FILE C W
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3106-CO
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE LOS RECURSOS NATURALES
RENOVABLES Y DEL MEDIO AMBIENTE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
UPPER MAGDALENA PILOT WATERSHED
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
November 24, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1979            Average Calendar 1980
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$
US$1   =  Col$42.550                     US$1   =  Col$47.280
Col$1  =  US$0.02350                     Col$1  =  US$0.02115
Exchange Rate Effective November 3, 1981
US$1  =  Col$57.27
Col$1  =  US$0.01746
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA       =    Canadian International Development Agency
CONIF           Forestry Research Corporation
DNP        =    National Planning Department
DRI        =    Integrated Rural Development Program
EEEB       =    Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
EPM        =    Empresas Publicas de Medellin
FEDECAFE   =    Federation of Coffee Growers
HIMAT      =    Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia
y Adecuacion de Tierras
ICA        =    Colombian Agricultural Institute
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
INDERENA   =    Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables
y del Medio Ambiente
ISA        =    Interconexion Electrica, S.A.
PAN             National Nutrition Program
PIN             Plan de Integracion Nacional
SCF        =    Soil Conservation Fund
SENA       =    National Apprentice Service
USAID      =    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
UPPER MAGDALENA PILOT WATERSHED
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Instituto Nacional de los Recursos Naturales Renovables
y del Medio Ambiente (INDERENA)
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia
Amount:              US$9.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace
at 11.6% interest per annum.
Project
Description:       The project is a first phase pilot scheme to form a
basis for major watershed protection efforts in the
future. It aims at developing viable technical and
organizational programs for: (a) slowing the erosion of
agricultural land and water catchment areas and siltation
of hydropower reservoirs; (b) maintaining a regular water
supply for irrigation and domestic use; and (c) control-
ling runoff to alleviate flooding.  To achieve these
goals, the project consists of pilot investments in three
subwatersheds of the Magdalena River designed to intro-
duce soil conserving cropping patterns, improvement of
livestock management, reforestation of marginal or
extremely vulnerable areas and construction of minor
structures to reduce erosion. The project also includes
research and evaluation components to provide the basis
for preparing a follow-up project covering the entire
Upper Magdalena Watershed. The project's major risk
involves the Borrower's capability to mobilize and lead
the activities of the various institutions participating
in the project. To minimize this risk, the appointment
of qualified managers to lead the project and the
execution of subsidiary agreements defining responsibi-
lities of key participating agencies would be conditions
of effectiveness.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local       Foreign       Total
---(US$ million equivalent)--
On-farm Investment                          5.3          1.8         7.1
Extension and Training                      1.2          0.4         1.6
Public Works (including reforestation)   1.1             0.3         1.4
Environmental Protection and Control        1.3          0.5         1.8
Research and Studies                        2.4          2.3         4.7
Preparation of Phase II Project             1.7          1.7         3.4
Project Management                          1.2          0.5         1.7
Total Base Costs           14.2          7.5        21.7
Physical Contingencies                      0.4          0.5         0.9
Price Contingencies                         2.8          1.9         4.7
Total Project Cost  1/   17.4            9.9        27.3
Project Financing Plan:
Government                                  9.5           -          9.5
Participating Banks                         4.8          2.2         7.0
IBRD                                        1.3          7.7         9.0
Beneficiaries                               1.8           -          1.8
Total                      17.4          9.9        27.3
Estimated Disbursements:          FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
-------(US$ million equivalent) ------
Annual                        0.9    2.0    1.9    1.7    1.5    1.0
Cumulative                    0.9    2.9    4.8    6.5    8.0    9.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Project File: A project file containing working papers has been prepared
as a basic guide for the project. It contains detailed
descriptions of all components. In view of pilot nature of
project an appraisal report has not been prepared.
1/ INDERENA is exempt from custom duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE LOS RECURSOS NATURALES RENOVABLES
Y DEL MEDIO AMBIENTE WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR THE
UPPER MAGDALENA PILOT WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Instituto Nacional de los Recursos Naturales Renovables y del Medio
Ambiente (INDERENA), with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia, for the
equivalent of US$9.0 million to help finance the Upper Magdalena Pilot Water-
shed Management Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
four years of grace, with interest at 11.6% interest per annum.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report on Colombia (3556-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in September 1981. This section on the economy reflects
the major findings of this report. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex 1.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past 30
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained
economy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, greater emphasis on
foreign trade has allowed the external sector to grow with non-coffee
exports, particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanding rapidly and
the range of products sold abroad widening considerably. The growing urban-
industrial-services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of sur-
plus labor in rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in
the cities has given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon,
together with the increased participation of women in the labor force, has
been instrumental in reducing poverty and improving income and distribution
over time. Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the
growing needs of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant
in international capital markets.
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by 2.4% p.a. on average during the 1950-80
period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per capita
income. This was the result of lower population growth, combined with more
rapid GDP growth. Population growth, which had remained in the 3.0% to 3.5%
range during the 1950s and early 1960s, declined dramatically after 1965 as a



-2-
consequence of a sharp fall in the fertility rate. Greater economic and edu-
cational opportunities for women, rapid rural-urban migration, rising per
capita income and increased effectiveness of family planning programs contri-
buted to the decline in fertility. Colombia's population is currently grow-
ing at an annual rate of 2.1%. As a result of the high proportion of women
now entering childbearing years, this rate of population growth is likely to
continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in both absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sani-
tation control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate
fell by about 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s
to 63 years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 20 per
thousand in the early 1960s to 8 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant mor-
tality, one of the best indicators of welfare, fell to 65 per thousand in the
later 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the early 1950s.  School enroll-
ment ratios have increased substantially at all grade levels since 1960s, and
by the late 1970s, 91% of urban children aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in
school. The poorest income groups have experienced the greatest increases in
electricity and water services in recent years and have benefitted more than
the average of the population from services of the national health system.
In spite of this progress, Colombia remains largely under-developed, with a
relatively small modern sector superimposed on a broad, traditional and ^-7-
nomically poor base. Development has been concentrated in relatively few
areas of the country, public services are still not available to many of the
rural and urban populations and unemployment and underemployment are rela-
tively high. The coverage of health care and water supply requires conti-
nuous improvement and adequate housing is not available to a substantial pro-
portion of the population. Rapid migration to the large and medium-sized
cities has created urban development problems, with attendant social diffi-
culties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in per capita income over
the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still required to improve and ext-
end the benefits of development to the poorest income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past thirty years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social infrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy.  In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector.  It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished and the country was con-
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly
tapping the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including
frequent exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export
incentives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs
somewhat and freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising



- 3 -
efficiency and increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external
markets. These measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign
exchange constraint and stimulating growth and employment. However, by
mid-1970s the economy was once again experiencing difficulties caused
primarily by the world recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of
domestic budget deficits.
Recent Economic Development
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of fiscal and
monetary policies designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses
prevailing in the economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully
effective, the economy was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising
from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from
coffee exports, together with some official surrender of foreign exchange
from illegal exports, caused a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes
rose rapidly and stimulated aggregate demand; inflation accelerated.
Economic growth also accelerated and unemployment fell substantially, both in
rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax
revenues, the public finances generated surpluses averaging about 7% of GDP
during the 1976-79 period, and by the end of 1979, net official international
reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to nearly 12 months
imports of goods and non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom has
had a somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy,
largely as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy.
Public investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to
economic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was
slowed and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to
moderate the growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expan-
sion and diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain
high reserve requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing,
in real terms, the financing available to the private sector via the official
capital market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 but were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth; thus relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the
increasing stabilizing effects on aggregate demand and the troublesome finan-
cial market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of mone-
tary restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabiliza-
tion program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export
incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints
were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest
rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance
companies -- and on the lending therefrom -- were freed from controls. To
offset the inflationary effects of these measures the authorities further
liberalized import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission
of new short-term certificates, of not expanding    the subsidized selective
credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured
from private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the
surveillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the



- 4 -
above measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to
4% in 1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures
continued.
10.       In 1981, manufacturing activity has remained sluggish,hemmed in by
the slow growth in aggregate consumer demand, and limited by power shortages
during most of the year. Coffee exports have fallen as a result of reduced
world demand and declining prices while non-coffee export growth has
weakened. On a more positive note, construction activity, which had fallen
sharply in 1979-80, began to recuperate toward the end of the year. In
response to favorable price incentives, petroleum production is estimated to
have increased by over 5% in 1981. Agricultural output has registered some
gains despite decreases in the area planted resulting from a prolonged
drought. Both public and private investment have expanded rapidly. Real GDP
growth is estimated to have reached 4% in 1981. with the unemployment rate
falling slightly. Inflation continued to be a problem in 1981, however, with
consumer prices increasing by about 27% for the year. With world coffee
prices at relatively low levels for most of the year, Colombia's balance of
payments is likely to experience an overall deficit in the US$200 million
range. This would still maintain net official reserves at about 10 months
imports of goods and non-factor services while reducing inflationary
pressures arising from the monetization of foreign exchange earnings.
Development Strategy
11.       Achievement in this decade of the Government's objectives of
increased productivity and maximum economic growth, increased employment,
improved distribution of income and greater welfare for all Colombians will
require a major effort to remove from the economy the constraints of
inadequate economic and social infrastructure and insufficient demand.
Infrastructure needs are most pressing in the energy, transportation, and
agriculture sector.
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives are set forth in the recently formulatled Plan de Integracion Nacional
(PIN). This strategy continues the previous emphasis on export promotion as
a means of supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments
stability, and on policy measures, including further import liberalization,
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a large increase in public investment, giving high priority to
energy projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional autonomy and the uniting of regional growth
centers through improved transport, communication and financial links are
directed towards creating an integrated national market, a strategic goal of
the PIN. The Plan also places emphasis on the promotion of both small scale
and commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and contrib-
uting to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy
objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with adequate
credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and
expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating
employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign investment is to
be encouraged. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the PIN. Its efforts are focussed upon improving efficiency



- 5 -
in the use of resources and strengthening the social service institutions.
Programs in the health and education sectors are to be better focussed and
integrated, and selected low income and disadvantaged groups, such as workers
in the informal sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for
special attention. Combined with extensions of the Integrated Rural
Development (DRI) and National Nutrition (PAN) projects, the new directions
given to social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare of
low income groups in Colombia.
13.       While the PIN provides a good analysis of the development issues
facing the country and sets forth the general guidelines for policies and
programs to resolve these issues, there are two important aspects of bringing
off the development strategy that are expected to receive increasing atten-
tion from the authorities in coming months. The first involves a required
deepening of the sector analyses in order to improve coordination in planning
and execution sector strategies, and the second has to do with matters
related to financing the PIN. Given the large investment required to carry
out the PIN strategy, inadequate planning and coordination among sectors or
insufficient domestic resource mobilization would be likely to result in sub-
stantial resource misallocation and to delay execution of the strategy. The
two most important sectors where additional work is urgently required are
energy and transportation.
14.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976 and by 1985 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb about 20% of total merchandise exports. In
the absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages will become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources -- hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas -- and also upon
increasing petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing
this will require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with
energy resource availabilities, a least cost program of investments,
sufficient domestic and external financing for these investments,
strengthened sector institutions, improved program execution capability and
rapid carrying out of investments. Although planning and policy making have
improved substantially in many energy sector institutions in recent years,
overall planning and coordination in the sector are still weak. A study
about to be completed by the National Planning Department is expected to
provide the basis for improvements in sector-wide planning and policy-making,
and recent pricing decisions have gone a considerable way towards providing
the correct signals for regulating consumption and encouraging production.
The prices paid to producers (primarily foreign companies) for "incremental"
and "new" crude have been raised to levels which provide adequate production
incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products, while still somewhat
below international levels, have been increased substantially in recent
years. The Government has committed itself to raise energy prices to
equivalent international levels as rapidly as politically and economically
possible, and a least cost energy investment program is being prepared.
Between October 1978 and October 1980, the price of regular gasoline (80
octane) was raised by 125%, from US$0.40 to US$0.90 per gallon; because of
exchange rate adjustments, its price has since fallen to US$0.80. At the
present time, the Government is considering an additional increase.



- 6 -
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate service could
become a constraint on economic growth, particularly that resulting from
development of the country's vast coal reserves and from agriculture. The
State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and
rehabilitation. The authorities have begun to take steps to improve the
country's infrastructure and PIN assigns an important share of future invest-
ments to the sector.
Investment and Its Financing
16.       A substantial increase and redirection of public sector investment
will be required in the next several years to carry out the development
strategy outlined in the PIN . Over the 1981-85 period, such investment is
expected to increase by about 15% p.a. in real terms. The energy and trans-
portation sectors are expected to account for the bulk (59.5%) of this
investment; however, sizeable real increases in investment are also expected
in the nutrition and health, small scale agriculture and industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 8.4% of GDP during the 1981-85 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,603 billion (about US$20.5 billion). Private
investment will have to increase also during this period to provide the goods
and services required by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector.  The buoyancy of the tax
system (excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign
exchange holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be
increased through new taxes and better tax administration, resources will
have to be used more efficiently, and the charges levied for public services
will have to be raised substantially in real terms.  Since this effort is
expected to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are good and significant
advances in economic welfare are anticipated. The urgent need to relieve the
pressure on aggregate demand arising from the growth of foreign exchange
earnings and the necessity to increase rapidly imports to develop the
country's resource potential and restore higher economic growth requires a
shift in the balance of payments from a small current account deficit of
US$195 million registered in 1980 to a current account deficit projected to
average US$1,865 million, over the 1981-85 period. By the end of this
period, net official international reserves would have fallen to a level
slightly over four months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a



- 7 -
level which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's
creditworthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of
real GDP of 5.5% during this period. Beyond 1985, the current account
deficit should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (partic-
ularly coal) and a levelling-off of imports. The current account deficit
would fall to about 2% of GDP in 1987 and turn into a surplus of less than 1%
by 1990. To achieve real GDP growth of 5.5% per annum, gross domestic
investment will have to expand to about 25% of GDP, up from 18% in the early
1970s and 20% in recent years, and to avoid too large an increase in foreign
indebtedness, gross national savings would need to average about 22% of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements (net of reserve drawdown) are
projected to total US$10.3 billion in current prices for the 1981-85 period,
for an annual average requirement of US$2,057 million. About 26% of this
amount will be required annually for debt amortization and the rest to cover
current account deficits. Multilateral and bilateral agencies are expected
to provide 33% of these requirements, 50% is expected to come from foreign
suppliers and financial institutions and the balance should come from private
foreign investment. At the end of 1980, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$4.3
billion, equivalent to 13% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 25%. Reflecting the recently increased lending by the Bank and the
decline by bilateral sources, this share is expected to increase to about 29%
in 1983, before falling to about 25% in 1986. The debt service ratio at end
of 1980 was 10% and is expected to climb to 17% by 1985, peak at about 20% in
1988 and then decline gradually. The World Bank's share in public debt
service is expected to rise to about 26% in 1985 from about 25% in 1980.
With continued sound economic and financial management, Colombia is expected
to maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the 1981-1990 period.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 94th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,263.9 million (net of
cancellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1981,
US$2,687.5 million:  IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 57 loans and the IDA credit.
During 1972-77 disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year,
then declined slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased sharply to
US$138 million in 1979 and to US$215 million in 1980. Improving perfor-
mance of social sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed pro-
jects, the gradual containment of inflationary pressures, which should
allow relaxation of fiscal restraint, and increased Bank lending for infra-
structure projects, all point to higher level of disbursements in the future.
IFC has made investments and underwriting commitments of US$78.7 million in 26
enterprises and, as of September 30, 1981, it held US$24.0 million. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments
as of September 30, 1981. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution
of the 36 ongoing projects.



- 8 -
21.       In response to the objectives established by successive Governments
(self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved income
distribution), since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become more diver-
sified with heavier concentration on production-oriented programs and activi-
ties which emphasize social as well as economic benefits. All three loans for
education have been made during this period, and so have 12 of the 14 loans
for industry, 12 of the 14 agricultural loans, one loan for a nutrition
project, two loans for urban development projects and all nine loans for water
supply and sewerage. During the same period, 19 loans were made in the power
and transport sectors, while before 1966, 22 out of a total of 25 loans were
made to these sectors.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY81 consisted of two loans for power
generation and distribution projects, and one each for rural roads, irrigation
rehabilitation and village electrification totalling US$550 million equivalent.
In addition to the loan presented in this report, the FY82 program includes
proposed loans for secondary oil recovery, rural development, highway rehabi-
litation and railways. Work is also under way on projects for petroleum
development, mining, oil refining, electric power, agricultural credit,
agro-industries, fertilizers, water supply and sewerage, ports and rural
education for possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the
next two years.
23.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy as outlined in the PIN (paragraphs 12 through 15). To
help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the
proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist in the
development of coal mines which hold potential in helping Colombia meet part
of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. In support of the
Government's objective to increase the supply and the recovery of domestic
petroleum, the Bank plans to finance petroleum projects as a complement
to investments of private firms and, for the first time, become involved
in projects which promote the efficient processing of hydrocarbons. Bank
financing in the energy sector would also assist in strengthening major
institutions and in mobilizing external finance as some of the projects
would require substantial co-financing. Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry to support the Government in its efforts to raise
overall productivity, income and employment, and to increase and diversify
exports. Closely related to these objectives would be the proposed Bank
lending for transport infrastructure. In this context, the Bank is assist-
ing the Government in preparing a highway paving and rehabilitation program
in support of the increasing interregional flow of goods and services. A
loan under preparation for ports is aimed at helping Colombia handle larger
volumes of non-traditional exports and the imported inputs on which the
modern sector of its economy relies for expansion. Finally, several loans
are being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest
50% of the Colombian population. Lending for rural electrification, rural
development, agricultural credit, water supply and sewerage, irrigation and
rural education projects is principally designed to improve the standard of
living of the poor.



- 9 -
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in
Annex I. While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has
decreased since then to approximately 50% for the 1976-79 period and is
expected to decline further to about 40% of external capital requirements
during the period 1980-85. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis
to projects with a poverty orientation such as low-cost housing, urban and
rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply,
rural electrification and land erosion control, but in recent years it has
increased its lending for power and industry. In the future, it proposes to
assist Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding
productive sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID
has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm
development, but is phasing out its aid program in Colombia. The Govern-
ments of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have
also provided concessional financing for basic needs and regional integra-
tion projects.
PART III. EROSION AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
Water Resources
25.         Colombia is endowed with abundant water resources.  Hydropower,
with a potential of over 93,000 MW, can satisfy all of the country's electri-
city needs well into the twenty-first century and possibly beyond, though
only 6% has been developed or is under construction. Likewise, the opportunity
for expanding agricultural productivity and production through irrigation and
drainage is considerable -- it is estimated that the irrigation potential is
a number of times the existing facilities which account for less than 3% of
the total land in agriculture. Through river regulation, inland shipping
could provide economic transport for a vast array of bulk cargo, particularly
minerals. The harnessing of water resources and improving the efficiency of
their use are of major significance for the development of the country's
agriculture, energy infrastructure and transport system.
Forests, Soils and Erosion
26.         Most major Colombian rivers and their tributaries originate
in the Andean mountains where steep, geologically immature slopes predominate.
Because of the area's proximity to the equator, the tree line is high, often
above 4,200 meters, and large portions of the Andes had been covered with
forest.  The major soil forming rocks are granite and syenite, which resulted
from volcanic activity in the tertiary and quaternary periods, interspersed
with layers of ash and dilapidated material. With the exception of the
alluvial valleys dividing the three major North/South mountain ranges, the
soil cover of the mountainous areas is fragile.  When vegetative cover is
removed, intensive rains, which are common throughout the mountainous region,
wash away the top soil, causing at times mass movement and avalanches.
27.         With the growth of the economy and population, new and often
more marginal lands are being opened up higher up mountain sides. The first
step of colonizers has normally been the slashing and burning of the forest



- 10 -
and, in its place, the planting of crops and pastures which are less effective
in protecting the soils. The nearby forests (on land whose slopes are too
steep or which are at too high an altitude) are also gradually being depleted
as they supply firewood and lumber to the settlers. In addition, the expanding
urban areas, through their increasing demand for wood, have been contributing
to the process of deforestation. It is estimated that during the past 20
years, Colombia's forest resources have been reduced by approximately 10.5
million hectares, corresponding to almost 20% of the approximately 55 million
ha that existed in 1960.
28.         With the loss of forests, the natural protective cover of the
soil is being removed. The water retention capacity of soils declines with
the loss of vegetation, resulting in either torrential flows of water or in
leaching. The effects of dry seasons are more severe, for the changed
structure of the dry soils make them more susceptible to being washed away.
The practice of farmers to crop and graze intensively further speeds the
erosion of surface soils and reduces the long range agricultural potential of
the soils. Where the farming has been too intensive, the land returns even-
tually to a bush fallow. In some cases where rainfall is low, such as in
parts of one of the three subwatersheds under the proposed project, the land
turns 4r.t3 virtual desert. In other situations, where production is continued
by increasing applications of fertilizers, pesticides and fertilizers are
washed down the river along with soil, sometimes into the water supply systems
of urban areas downstream. The rapidly growing cities in turn do their share
of silting and polluting of waters further downstream.-The revival of gold
mining in certain areas of the country is also contributing to soil erosion.
The resulting erosion from all of the above sources causes siltation of
waterways, flooding and reduced storage capacity of dams.
Government Strategy
29.         While the problems resulting from the denudation of forested
hillsides and the consequent, erosion and water pollution have been recognized
for a long time as critical national concerns, it was not until recently that
Colombian leaders began to address the need for concerted action to prevent
further deterioration. The increasingly evident, adverse results of siltation,
including more frequent flooding, shorter life of dams and reduced water flows
for hydropower generation and water supply systems, contributed to the urgency
of taking appropriate measures. Furthermore, protection of water basins is
considered by the Government to be essential from an economic standpoint by
virtue of the heavy investments in the development of hydroelectric resources
envisaged. Nationwide electricity rationing over the past year, has contributed
to the awakening of public interest to the need for watershed conservation and
management.
30.         Several power companies have been reforesting on a small scale
some lands close to dams and recognize that the effort must be intensified.
The national electricity company, Interconexion Electrica (ISA), has contract-
ed consultants and INDERENA to formulate and carry out programs of reforestation
and watershed management in its project areas. Additionally, under the two
most recent power loans (1953-CO and 2008-CO), The Electricity Companies of
Bogota and Medellin (EEEB and EPM) have undertaken to carry out programs of



- 11 -
watershed management in the areas of influence of the projects.However, the
major institution building efforts must necessarily be aimed at the proposed
Borrower, INDERENA, which has the primary role in watershed protection.
31.       The concern for protecting water resources and the environment
generally extends beyond the power companies and the particular watersheds
in which their projects are located. With respect to forests, the National
Planning Department (DNP) has prepared a National Forestry Plan which contem-
plates a major reforestation effort for soil protection as well as for
commercial exploitation; the bulk of the program would be carried out by the
private sector with credit provided by financial institutions and rediscount-
ed with the Central Bank. Regional forest corporations have also become
more active and the Integrated Rural Development Program financed in part by
the Bank (Loan 1352-CO), IDB and CIDA, as well as the Federation of Coffee
Growers are encouraging farmers to plant trees. The Government, through the
Central Bank, also makes available funds on favorable terms to industrial
firms for pollution control. Studies are also underway for controlling
pollution of the Cartagena Bay and for rectifying the silted and polluted
Bogota River.
32.            Nearly all of the above programs are recent, many require the
resolution of fundamental issues -- e.g., the source of financing for the
forestry program -- and most need further study and preparation. There is
little experience with mobilizing the various residents and water users in
watersheds and managing each area to maximize the long-term economic potential
of the soils and water. To approach the subject in a systematic way, the
Institute of Renewable Natural Resources and the Environment (INDERENA), with
the endorsement of the Government, proposes to initiate a small-scale pilot
program to develop and test technologies and organizational arrangements for
carrying out a massive program in the future. The pilot program constitutes
the proposed project and would be carried out in the densely populated, upper
portion of Colombia's most important river, the Magdalena.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
33.       The Bank's efforts in assisting Colombia in the protection and
management of river basins is also recent and aimed largely at developing the
institutional capacity necessary to carry out programs and works on a national
basis in the future and on building more widespread support for such an
endeavor. An initial step has already been taken in connection with the
aforementioned power loans (paragraph 30). The proposed project, which would
be the first in Colombia concerned exclusively with water resource management
and environmental protection would be the principal vehicle for achieving
these objectives. It would upgrade INDERENA's technical and organizational
capability and and aim to build the institution's capacity to deal countrywide
with watershed management. Further hydropower generation projects will
continue to have watershed management components in an effort to bolster the
concern of power companies in the protection of water basins. The results of
the various programs will be followed closely in order to build on the
experience gained, to apply them to future projects and to seek least-cost
means of preserving Colombia's abundant water resources.



- 12 -
The Borrower - INDERENA
34.         Established in 1968, INDERENA is one of the many decentralized
agencies reporting to the Minister of Agriculture, who serves as Chairman of
its Board. As the name suggests (paragraph 34), the entity is responsible
for preserving and maintaining the country's renewable natural resources and
protecting the environment. It is responsible for the protection and rational
use of the country's 45.5 million ha of forest reserves as well as forestry
research and development. At the same time, INDERENA is the watchdog of
Colombia's wildlife and oversees development of fisheries and related research.
With the Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology (HIMAT), it shares responsibi-
lity for supervising and maintaining the country's rivers and streams. Where
strong regional corporations have been developed, such as in the Department
of Valle and around Bogota, maintenance and protection of rivers and forests
have been transferred to those corporations. However, policy formulation and
leadership within the natural resources sector remains in the hands of
INDERENA.
35.         The entity is managed by a General Manager, who is appointed by
the President of the Republic. It is organized into divisions responsible
for forestry and flora, fisheries and fauna, environmental protection,
development, and administration. The technical staff numbers over one
thousand. Approximately 87% of INDERENA's resources are budgetary contribu-
tions from the Government with the remainder coming mostly from sale of wood
and water use fees. Its total volume of operations in 1980 amounted to about
US$23 million equivalent. By the nature of its operations, INDERENA can be
expected to continue relying heavily on Government funding for its operations.
36.       INDERENA has been the environmentalists' voice within the public
sector. Initially, it received only limited backing from the Government,
and its leadership has been generally weak, suffering from frequent manage-
ment changes. The current Government, however, has provided increased
support and has appointed strong leaders to manage INDERENA. The present
management is reorganizing the institution, working towards streamlining its
administration and taking a balanced approach to preserving and exploiting
natural resources in a rational manner. To be effective in this endeavor,
INDERENA requires further strengthening, particularly with respect to
project execution and management.  Through training, technical assistance
and guided operational experience, the proposed project would assist INDERENA
in developing a capability in the field of watershed management while,
largely through its own efforts along with project supported consultants
(paragraph 61), INDERENA is improving its overall operational capacity.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Background, Objectives and Brief Description
37.       The project was prepared by INDERENA with the assistance of some
participating institutions and two Bank missions. It was appraised by the
Bank in February and April 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
in November 1981, with a Colombian delegation led by Ms. Leonor Montoya and
Mr. Cesar Ocampo Palacio, Director General of Public Credit of the Ministry



- 13 -
of Finance and General Manager of INDERENA, respectively. In view of the
experimental nature of the proposed project, this section is somewhat expand-
ed and serves in lieu of the Staff Appraisal Report.
38.       The principal objective of the project is to develop, within four
years, viable tarming and tree crop systems as well as institutional mechanisms
for carrying out soil conservation and erosion control and maximizing the
long-term economic use of the soils and water. The project would test
production and conservation measures (reforestation, civil works, modifying
land use practices, forest protection measures) to determine feasible and low
cost ways of introducing soil conservation to farming systems and to the
watersheds. The project would also provide the necessary information to
prepare a follow-up, larger project covering the entire Upper Magdalena
River Basin. An integral part of the project would be the determination of
incentives required to motivate land users to adopt conservation practices
and an appropriate role for the public sector to play in protecting the
country's water resources.
39.         The project would be carried out over five years and would
include: (a) investments in the three sub-watersheds aimed at conserving
soils and reducing erosion; (b) research and studies to be carried out in
part to evaluate investments in the three sub-watersheds, but also to serve
as inputs for future watershed management projects; and (c) preparation
of the second-stage project. In about a four-year period, the investments
and research would provide a firm basis for managing the entire Upper
Magdalena watershed.
Project Area
40.         The Upper Magdalena River Basin covers the departments of Huila
and Tolima as well as parts of Cauca and Cundinamarca. The basin includes
23 major tributaries formed in the high central mountain range (Cordillera)
and the lower eastern range and covers more than 5.5 million hectares. The
valley is the principal rice production area of the country and the area is
dotted with potential hydroelectric schemes (included on Map IBRD 15847).
The geology and soils are similar to those of the Andean region of Colombia
(paragraph 26).
41.         The three subwatersheds selected for the pilot project were
chosen for their economic importance and their representativeness. In total,
they cover nearly 200,000 ha. The two larger rivers (Rio Combeima and Rio
Yaguara) are in the Central Cordillera and originate in two snow-capped
mountains, while the third (Rio Las Ceibas) rises in the Eastern Cordillera.
Rios Las Ceibas and Combeima are the principal sources of water for two
cities of roughly 150,000 and 300,000 each, respectively, while Rio Yaguara
is expected to provide about 10% of the water to the Rio Magdalena dam for
the 500 MW Betania Hydroelectric Plant, already under construction. Each of
the three rivers supports some irrigated agriculture, with Rio Combeima
providing water for up to 5,200 ha per year.
42.         The three watersheds differ substantially in the extent of
their erosion and the nature of the agriculture they support. The Las Ceibas
watershed is the smallest, with about 15,000 ha, including nearly 1,000 ha of
cocoa and a mixture of crops in the lower portions and livestock at higher



- 14 -
elevations. Yaguara, the largest of the three watersheds (135,000 ha), is by
far the most eroded; sediment-laden, brown-colored water flows to the
Magdalena during the rainy season. Its climate is dry and it supports little
beyond extensive livestock ranching. The Combeima catchment area by contrast
is a lush area with rainfall averaging about 2,000 mm per year. It includes
about 300 ha of coffee (and 2,000 ha more with some coffee) and well over
5,000 ha of other crops. Holdings average 25 ha, with the better lower
elevation land generally held in very small parcels. This watershed, covering
30,000 ha, has been the subject of numerous partial studies which have
provided useful data on this watershed -- records on rainfall have been kept
since 1946. While reliable data do not exist, older people within the water-
shed claim that water flows during the dry season have declined over the
past 50 years.   By contrast, few data exist for the other two watersheds;
one of the first tasks of the project, therefore, would be to set up stations
to measure water flows and precipitation.
Detailed Project Features
A. Investments in Soil Conservation
43.         ^n--farm investments.  The project would provide credit to farmers
for improving soil conservation practices along with increasing production.
The objective of the component would be to aid farmers in planting high return
tree crops on lands vulnerable to erosion as a partial substitute for crops
and pasture where they are major contributors to soil erosion and to reduce
erosion through improved animal husbandry and crop cultivation practices.
Credit would be made available for an estimated 200 ha each of cocoa and
fruit trees, 900 ha of wood-lots for fuel and other domestic needs and 700 ha
of coffee. By far the most important agricultural activity in the watersheds
and a major contributor to erosion is cattle raising. Consequently, the
largest effort would be devoted to improving livestock management in order to
reduce the effects of overgrazing on soil erosion. Credit would be made
available for cattlesheds, for pastures for silage and hay, and for improved
cattle breeds on about 3,400 ha. The credit would be conditional upon the
farmer following appropriate soil conserving animal husbandry practices,
including limiting the number of cattle per hectare and regulating the period
of grazing.
44.         Although the areas to be covered would account for only a small
percentage of the agricultural lands in each of the watersheds, they would be
concentrated in the areas most vulnerable to erosion and would provide an
adequate test of the suitability of the particular farming systems and their
acceptability to farmers. In order to do so, the project would provide
credit to farmers, regardless of farm size and land tenure status. The agri-
cultural technologies in themselves, are financially viable -- preliminary
estimates carried out on one ha farm models suggest that all investments have
financial rates of return greater than 15%. INDERENA would refine its farm
models and submit them to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness (3.01 (j)
and 7.01 (e) of the draft Loan Agreement). These models would assist INDERENA



- 15 -
in planning training programs and identifying foregone farmer earnings from
conservation investments. Under the proposed farm models, the short-term
returns are normally lower than alternative investments, while the investments,
particularly in labor, are usually more costly, because of the requirements of
soil conservation practices. Consequently, to ensure the adoption of adequate
soil conservation measures, including changes in land-use patterns, an incen-
tive/subsidy program would be established (paragraphs 66 and 67). Using
principally resources from a fund of the Central Bank, three specialized
agricultural banks -- Caja Agraria, Banco Ganadero and Banco Cafetero --
would lend to farmers (paragraphs 64 and 65).
45.       Extension and Training.  Extension agents would transmit soil
conserving technologies to farmers. To receive credit under the project,
farmers would be required to draw up a farm plan with the assistance of an
extension agent trained under the project. The agent would also supervise the
farm investments to ensure that the farmer is carrying out the investments
and practices agreed upon. Training in soil conservation techniques would
be provided to a selected group of extension agents with appropriate technical
backgrounds as well as to farm groups in the three watersheds. The project
would finance incremental operating costs, vehicles, equipment and training
programs. The National Agricultural Institute (ICA) and Federation of Coffee
Growers (FEDECAFE) would supply the extension agents, while the National
Apprentice Service (SENA), with the cooperation of INDERENA, would run the
training programs. Curricula for training are under preparation and the
first program is planned to start before mid-1982. Initial training programs
would be evaluated and modified accordingly with experience. By April 30 of
each year, INDERENA would send to the Bank for comment an evaluation report of
training programs during the previous year and proposals for modifying curri-
cula and training courses (Section 3.01(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Training would also be carried out domestically and abroad for the purposes of
improving the skills of project staff and developing the capacity of INDERENA
to carry out the second phase project. Terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Bank, and a program for training the necessary staff to carry out the second
stage project are to be prepared by December 31, 1982 (Section 3.01(g) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
46.         Public Works.  Approximately 660 ha of forests would be planted on
publicly owned lands for commercial exploitation and protection of the water-
sheds. Local and exotic species already tested in the area would be used, while
research into new varieties is being undertaken (paragraph 50). In addition, a
number of civil works for regulating river flow and reducing sedimentation and
flooding would be carried out and tested for cost effectiveness. The structures
would include gabions, soil cement layers and precast flexible mats. INDERENA
would contract the civil works to experienced local private construction firms
and the management and operation of the forest plantations to regional forest
corporations and other entities with appropriate experience.
47.         Protection and Control.  INDERENA would maintain two environmental
protection and control units to monitor and protect the major forest reserves
in the watershed areas of rivers, to enforce existing environmental laws,
and to manage two national parks established for their protection. Forest
control for Las Ceibas and Yaguara would be handled by one unit to avoid



- 16 -
extra infrastructure costs. The project would finance field equipment,
vehicles, offices, trails, shelters and incremental operating costs.
B. Research and Studies
48.         Hydrometereology.  Planning and evaluating soil conservation
programs require baseline data on rainfall, sedimentation, river flows and
water quality. The project would develop that data base immediately in the
three sub-watersheds and determine the minimum requirements and install an
equipment network for the entire Upper Magdalena. The project would provide
the equipment, buildings and instrumentation requirements along with the
incremental costs for operating, maintaining and analyzing the output from
the network. The program would be carried out by HIMAT, which specializes
in this activity.
49.         Microwatershed.  Small tributaries would be selected in each
of the three sub-watersheds to study in depth and quantify the soil erosion
process and the effects of different land uses and practices on erosion
and sedimentation. This research program would be carried out with control
microwatersheds and sample plots and is expected to provide an important
basis for quantifying benefits under a larger, follow-up project. Project
financing would be provided for equipment, vehicles, small buildings and
incremental operating costs. The program would be led by a research coordinator
and carried out jointly by INDERENA, HIMAT and ICA, with technical assistance
from local and foreign consultants. With the assistance of other entities,
INDERENA would prepare by June 30, 1982, a detailed implementation program,
satisfactory to the Bank, which would include inter-alia, detailed methodology
for the research, sites selected and work schedule (Section 3.01(h) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
50.         Forestry Research.  The project would support a program to test
the performance of various fast-growing timber and fodder species from a soil
conservation as well as commercial economic perspective. This research is
necessarily long-term and is unlikely to yield results before the second phase
project. Nevertheless, this component can have a major impact on management
of the watershed over the long term and, therefore, would be supported with
nurseries, technical assistance, research personnel and infrastructure. The
National Forestry Research Corporation (CONIF) would be responsible for the
component's execution and would prepare a research plan by June 30, 1982
(Section 3.01(g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.         Policy and Economic Studies.  Since water resource management is
a fairly recent concern in Colombia, there is little basis for establishing
a policy and legal framework for its management. The areas to be studied
would include: alternatives to meeting the energy needs of the watershed
population, marketing of various fruits, methods of enforcing forest protec-
tion laws, the need for water legislation and methods of recovering invest-
ments in watershed management. The methodology and work plan for each of
the studies have not yet been developed; the terms of reference for each
study, satisfactory to the Bank, along with a program for carrying out the
studies would be completed by September 30, 1982 (Part C 5 of Schedule II



- 17 -
and Section 3.01(g) of the draft Loan Agreement). INDERENA's reses-
dinator would also lead this program and would be assisted by consultants.
The project would finance local consultants and office equipment.
52.         Technology Development.  An INDERENA unit of specialists from
various disciplines would work with different specialized institutions
in aligning the research to the needs for applying improved watershed manage-
ment technologies developed in other parts of Colombia and abroad. As an
integral part of the Management unit, its role will also include keeping
project personnel abreast of developments in watershed management elsewhere in
Colombia and abroad.
C. Preparation of Phase II
53.         A major goal of the project is to assist Colombia in developing
appropriate techniques and system for carrying out large-scale efforts in
watershed management programs in the future. In line with this, preparation
of a second, larger project would be carried out under the proposed project.
The pertinent studies would be initiated in early 1983 and would serve to
monitor the results of the proposed project. The preparation of the second
project is to be carried out jointly by INDERENA and mostly local consultants.
Specialized foreign consultants would be engaged as needed and would be used
to provide training to INDERENA staff. In order to prepare the necessary
manpower to carry out large-scale watershed management activities, short- and
long-term training would also be provided under the project (paragraph 45).
Costs and Financing
54.         The total cost of the project (net of taxes) is estimated at
US$27.3 million equivalent, of which US$9.9 million equivalent (36%) corres-
pond to the foreign exchange costs. Physical contingencies amounting to 15%
for civil works, studies and equipment have been included in the estimates.
Price contingencies amount to 17% of base costs and are based on forecasts of
yearly domestic and international price increases. (Project costs by compo-
nent are presented in the Loan and Project Summary.) By type of expenditure,
project costs are as follows:
Local       Foreign         Total
--      (in US$ million)--------
Contracts for Civil Works and               1.5           0.4            1.9
Reforestation
Vehicles, Equipment and Scientific          0.8           2.1            2.9
Instruments
Consultant Services, Training               1.0           1.0            2.0
Studies and Extension--                     4.4           1.7            6.1
Operational Costs 1/
Project Administration                      1.2           0.5            1.7
On-farm Investment                          5.3           1.8            7.1
Base Costs                           14.2           7.5          21.7
1/  Includes research and studies to be carried out by public sector agencies,
equipment requiring periodic replacement, maintenance of vehicles, etc.



- 18 -
Local       Foreign         Total
(in US$ million)--------
Physical Contingencies                      0.4           0.5            0.9
Price Contingencies                         2.8           1.9            4.7
Total Costs                          17.4           9.9           27.3
55.         Despite extensive preparation, in greater detail than is usual
for a pilot project, the project is too new in conception for every aspect
to have been considered in detail at this point. Therefore, in addition to
physical and price contingencies, a small additional contingency amounting to
US$500,000 has been included so that financing would be available for studies
and training heretofore unforeseen or ultimately expanded beyond current
expectations. Assurances have been provided that the terms of reference of
any study or training program to be carried out under the project would be
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.01(g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.         The credit component (US$7.0 million or 26% of project costs)
equivalent to about 80% of the on-farm investments (US$8.8 million, includ-
ing contingencies) would be financed entirely by the banking system. Since
the resources are non-incremental, they are not included in Bank financing.
The proposed Bank loan of US$9.0 million (corresponding to 91% of the foreign
exchange cost and about 33% of total project costs) would finance the esti-
mated foreign cost portion of all components (except on-farm investments) and
US$1.3 million of local expenditures for vital project components with low
foreign exchange components (such as reforestation and extension). The
Government would finance US$9.5 million equivalent (35%) in local costs,
and the beneficiaries would contribute US$1.8 million equivalent (6%).
Procurement and Disbursement
57.         Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost about
US$2.9 million equivalent would be procured under international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for small items such as
scientific instruments, office and field equipment, each not exceeding US$25,000
equivalent and in aggregate no greater than US$200,000 equivalent, would be
eligible for procurement by quotation from at least three suppliers or manufac-
turers.  Civil works contracts would be small, unattractive to international
firms and, therefore, procured through acceptable local competitive bidding
procedures. Contracts for reforestation would be awarded on the basis of at
least two quotations, except where only one potential contractor is available.
In the latter event, the contracts would be on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Contracts for consulting services (estimated at 90 man-months
local and 50 man-months foreign) would be awarded, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, to firms or individuals whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.         Disbursements would be made for 100% of the foreign expenditures
for equipment, vehicles and foreign consultants, 90% of expenditures for



- 19 -
equipment procured locally and 50% of expenditures for local consultants and
training, civil works, reforestation, extension and studies. In order to
advance work on hydrometeorological research, mapping of pilot areas,
nurseries and preparation of training curricula, a total amount of not
exceeding US$100,000 equivalent would be eligible for retroactive financing
for expenditures made after May 1, 1981.
59.         In an effort to facilitate rapid project execution, a working fund
would be established with US$1.5 million equivalent to cover about six months
of local expenditures. Such a fund would ensure prompt payment to the various
agencies and contractors whose timely participation is crucial for achieving
project objectives. The establishment of a special account for such a fund
and the approval by the Government of the release of US$750,000 equivalent
would be a condition of disbursement of US$750,000 equivalent from the Loan
Account to the fund (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In order
to allow for the necessary time to complete the budgetary process, the
Government would have up to 30 days to deposit the monies in the special
account. Subsequent disbursements to replenish the fund would be carried out
according to standard Bank procedures, but provided that the Government has
already approved the release of INDERENA's share of the replenishment (Sec-
tion 2.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). As required by Colombian law, all
project expenditures would be subject to ex-ante control and approval of the
Controller General's staff, but in any case they would also be subject to
standard reviews by the Bank. The above procedure is expected to speed the
execution of the project and aid in completing loan disbursements by June 30,
1987.
Project Management and Execution
60.         INDERENA would be responsible for carrying out the project.  It
would be the principal executing agency and coordinator of the various
investments and studies. However, it would have to rely heavily on the
specialized agencies which would carry out individual components. Agencies
participating in the project by component would be as follows:
INDERENA:                                     Overall Management and
Evaluation
Microwatershed Research
Technology Development
Forestry Protection and
Control
Preparation of Stage II
Policy Studies
Caja Agraria, Banco Ganadero:                 Credit
Agricultural Institute (ICA):                 Extension
National Apprentice Service (SENA):           Training
Hydrology and Meteorology
Institute (HIMAT):                          Hydrometeorology
Federation of Coffee Growers (FEDECAFE):    Extension



- 20 -
In addition, a number of other subsidiary institutions are expected to carry
out sub-components of the project. With each non-bank participating institu-
tion, INDERENA would sign a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Bank.
With each banking institution, INDERENA would sign a Cooperating Agreement.
For the agencies with key project responsibilities, ICA, SENA and HIMAT, and
for Caja Agraria or Banco Ganadero, the delivery to the Bank of subsidiary and
cooperating agreements, respectively, would be conditions of loan effective-
ness (Section 7.01(c) and (d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Subsidiary and
cooperating agreements with the remaining agencies would be signed by June 30,
1982 and December 31, 1982, respectively (Section 3.01(c) and (d) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
61.         Much remains to be done before INDERENA can be considered efficient
enough to manage complex and large scale projects such as the anticipated
second phase. Its administration is aware of the problem and has agreed to
special organizational arrangements to ensure the success of the proposed
project, while it is attempting to reorganize and strengthen the institution.
The project would assist the overall institutional effort through the financ-
ing of a study by management consultants to improve the overall flow of in-
formation and the financial management of the institutions. Based on the
study's results, INDERENA would carry out a program of institutional improve-
ment initiated no later than February 1, 1983 (Section 3.01(k) of the draft
Loan Agreement). For the project, the establisnment uf a special Upper
Magdalena Project Office has been approved which will have direct access to
the General Manager. The Project Director, with appropriate qualifications
and experience, would serve as secretary to a project coordinating committee
made up of representatives of the participating agencies. The project office
would include a Programming, Budgeting and Monitoring Unit, a Research and
Evaluation Unit, and a Technology Transfer Unit. The Research Coordinator
would be a senior technician with an extensive applied research background.
Assurances have been provided that the key positions of Project Director and
Research Coordinator would be held by persons with adequate qualifications
and experience, who would be appointed prior to loan effectivess (Sections
3.05 and 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Environmental protection and
control as well as supervision of forestry research would be undertaken by
existing departments within INDERENA.
62.         In addition, in each of the two departments (regions) where the
three watersheds are located, INDERENA would have a coordinator and a small
technical and administrative staff to run the project. To encourage coordination
and participation at the local level, regional coordinating committees would
be established by June 30, 1982, and would include representation of water
users, project beneficiaries, regional political leadership and organizations
participating in the project (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Similar regional committees have already functioned reasonably well and have
contributed to other complex projects in Colombia, including the Nutrition
Improvement Project (Loan 1487-CO) in the two departments where the proposed
project would be carried out.
63.         Activities to be carried out during the first year of execution
have been drafted in detail. The immediate tasks of preparing for the establish-



- 21 -
ment of a hydrometeorology network in the three sub-watersheds, performing a
study of the network needs for the entire basin and training extension agents
are already underway. INDERENA would provide the Bank with semi-annual progress
reports and would, before November 30 of each year submit to the Bank for its
approval a deLailed program of activities for the coming year (Section 3.01(f)
of the draft Loan Agreement). A project account would be established and
audited annually by independent auditors, who would also audit statements of
expenditure for work carried out directly by INDERENA or under small contracts.
Because the project is the first of its kind in Colombia, and to build expe-
rience for other possible future Bank activities in Colombia as well as else-
where, close supervision and monitoring by the Bank is proposed.
Credit, Subsidies and a Soil Conservation Fund
64.         The credit program of the proposed project would follow standard
procedures for agricultural credit in Colombia. An agricultural extension
agent would assist the farmer in preparing an investment plan, after which
the farmer would present it to a bank. The bank would then examine the
proposal, approved by the extension agent, including the creditworthiness of
the applicant and decide how much and on what terms it would lend. The bank
would then request approval and funds from the Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
(FFAP), a line of rediscount for agricultural credit of the Central Bank,
which has already provided assurances that the money will be available. The
terms and conditions of the loans would be those prevailing at the time in
Colombia for similar purposes under the FFAP program. Banks can approve
credits up to 80% of the cost of investment and at effective interest rates
of about 25% on average. At present these rates are slightly negative in
real terms, but since inflation is projected to slow down during the commit-
ment period of the loans, they are expected to become positive in real terms
on the order of two to five percent.
65.         Selected extension agents who are authorized and trained under
the project would be the only ones eligible to provide the necessary assis-
tance to credit applicants. In addition, the investment plan would have to
take into account soil conservation requirements along with the farmer's
production needs. Although banks will follow their own procedures for
approving individual loans, under the proposed project, they would adhere
to the requirement that financing only be provided for investment plans
approved by the selected extension agents. Assurances have been provided
that the minimum requirements for the project (US$7.0 million equivalent)
would be made available (Section 3.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
66.         While the procedures for supplying the credit resources are
reasonably straightforward, the critical issue remains of how to motivate
farmers to demand credit at non-subsidized rates of interest for investments
in soil conservation. In the first place, benefits to the borrowing farmer
from such investments are long-term and not obvious. Moreover, the farmer's
application of soil conserving technology benefits all dowstream users of
water. In fact, there are two groups of beneficiaries with differing rela-
tionships to the project: a) the major water users - water supply and power
companies, urban residents and farmers using irrigation -- who are downstream
from the critical areas; and b) the land users -- farmers and ranchers,



- 22 -
principally -- who live in the critical areas. The former group will not
need to make any direct investment, yet obtains substantial benefits, while
the latter must modify its land use practices by using soil conserving
technologies and must at times forego short term profits for long term
benefits. The downstream users, most notably the irrigated rice growers,
are aware of the potential benefits and some have tentatively offered to
contribute a portion of the investment. At the same time, the adoption by
farmers upstream of soil conserving practices remains untested and is
unlikely to occur unless some incentive, financial or punitive, is provided.
67.         In order to provide financial incentives to farmers who adopt
soil conservation practices and to raise resources from project beneficiaries
who need not invest directly, a Soil Conservation Fund (SCF) would be estab-
lished, and would be financed by downstream users and INDERENA. The SCF
would then be used to subsidize a portion of the debt service for the up-
stream farmers who follow soil conservation practices which require either
increased costs or labor (e.g., silage, hay and barns) or result in foregone
short-term earnings (e.g., reduction in number of cows per hectare, replacing
part of annual crops by permanent crops). The farmer would receive the
subsidy only after he has demonstrated to an authorized extension agent that
he is carrying out the soil conservation practices agreed to when contracting
the credit. INDERENA, in turn, would be responsible for supervising the
operation of the Fund and the compliance of extension agents with their
policing responsibilities.
68.         Draft operating guidelines to initiate the SCF are being prepared;
their legalization after approval by the Bank would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. The guidelines would specify tie minimum size of the SCF
based on calculations of required subsidies and the various sources of funding
for the SCF (i.e., contributions from irrigated rice growers, power and water
companies, etc.) and the amounts of individual incentive payments. In
addition, as a condition of loan effectiveness, INDERENA would enter into
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the entities that would contri-
bute to the SCF and obtain formal commitments of no less than Col$60 million,
equivalent to about US$1.1 million (Section 3.07 and 7.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Thus far, commitments have been obtained from a power
company and a rice growers association totalling over US$1 million and
further contributions are expected.  Based on the estimated requirements of
Col$150 million (US$2.8 million), the difference between funds required and
amounts contributed by downstream users estimated to be no greater than
Col$90 million, or about US$1.7 million, would be provided by the Government.
Given the experimental nature of the above scheme, the specific incentives
for conservation works as well as the operating guidelines will be closely
monitored by the Bank and only subject to modification by agreement with the
Government and the Bank. Under the program of economic and policy studies, a
detailed analysis would be undertaken of the added costs to farmers for
different soil conservation works and an estimate of the appropriate levels
of subsidy for different types of investments. Likewise, the feasibility of
regularizing or legalizing a system of user contributions would be studied.
The objective would be to develop a viable system to be applied in future
efforts in watershed management and specifically in the already mentioned
second stage project.



- 23 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
69.         The proposed project would be the first step in reversing the
ecological deterioration of the upper part of Colombia's most important river,
the Magdalena, and its surrounding areas. It would reduce erosion of sur-
face soils in three sub-watersheds, where rapid depletion of to'-  il has
been reducing agricultural productivity and depositing large quantities of
silt downstream in the Magdalena River and its tributaries. The project is
expected to reduce flooding in the suburbs of the city of Ibague and to
provide a more regular flow of water for consumption in Ibague and for
irrigation downstream. It would also reduce siltation in the dam under
construction for the 500 MW Betania hydroelectric facility and reduce the
pollutant's entering the water supply system of Neiva.
70.         Through extensive hydrometeorology research in the entire
Upper Magdalena basin, as well as through microwatershed trials, forestry
research and technology adaptation in the three sub-watersheds, the project
would provide a sound technical foundation for a major effort in the entire
basin. At the same time, the carrying out of pilot investments in forestry,
tree crops, arable and livestock farming, and civil works would develop the
organizational basis for executing watershed management projects in critical
watersheds throughout the country. A key justification of this pilot effort,
therefore, is the selection and refinement of technical means and organizational
systems for accomplishing widescale watershed protection. Since the proposed
project is a pilot effort, no attempt has been made to compute an economic
rate of return. An attempt, however, will be made in the course of project
execution to quantify benefits attributable to the investments so that
further projects in watershed management can be appraised quantitatively.
71.         Project risks relate principally to the ability of INDERENA to
mobilize and lead effectively the other participating agencies and personnel
necessary for achieving the complex goals of the project, never previously
attempted in Colombia. With this risk in mind, the project has been kept
small and appropriate organizational measures have been or would be taken to
ensure the success of the project. The project unit within INDERENA would
not have a large executing role; rather it would be responsible for coordinat-
ing, organizing and evaluating activities to be carried out largely by other
institutions and departments. The other entities involved have already agreed
to the details of their participation and together with INDERENA have drafted
subsidiary agreements to that effect. The project unit, its terms of reference,
numbers and qualifications of personnel are all agreed to with the Bank and
are sufficient to minimize any adverse impact of a relatively weak institu-
tion on the project. Furthermore, the Government has expressed strong
commitment to the project and is most eager to apply its results in many
areas of the country.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.         The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and INDERENA, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank



- 24 -
and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
73.         Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of Effectiveness would be that:
(a) INDERENA had signed and duly authorized subsidiary agree-
ments with HIMAT, ICA, and SENA and a Cooperating Agreement
with either Banco Ganadero or Caja Agraria for carrying out
the hydrometeorology, extension, training and credit compo-
nents, respectively (Section 3.01(c) and (d) and 7.01(c) and
(d) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b) The Project Director and Research Coordinator had been
appointed (Section 3.05 and 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment);
(c)  INDERENA had established the Soil Conservation Fund
(Section 3.07(a) and 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(d) INDERENA had entered into arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, for contributions to the SCF of no less than Col$60
million (Section 3.07(b) and 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment); atiQ
(e) Financia- farm models of a scope and detail satisfactory to
the Bank had been submitted to the Bank (Section 3.01(j) and
7.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Conditions of disbursement would be that:
(a) For the advance of the working fund, that the fund had
been established and that the Government had approved
the transfer of its corresponding share (Section 2.03(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(b)  For subsequent replenishments to the fund, that
the Government, the Bank and INDERENA had reached
agreement on the size of the fund for the subse-
quent period and that the Government had approved
the transfer of its corresponding share (Part 4(b)
of Schedule 1 and Section 2.03(c) and (f) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
74.         I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 25 -
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
75.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Attachments
November 24, 1981



Annex I
-26 -                                            Page 1 of 5
COLUMBLA - SOCIAL INtICATORS OATA SKEEr
COLOMBIA                      1eFERUNCE GROUPS (WllGHTD AVE GS
LABU   ARA   (TSOUSA*10  S0.  Ki.)                                          -_______        ___     ________I      _
TuIAL           1138.9                                  MOST UCiNT              MIDDLE INCOM            MIDDLE lNCOGY
ALlCULTURAL     Z32.0               1960   2    1970 /  ESTIMTE /b    LATIN AMeUICA * CARIBB5AN            eWLOP
GNY rEh CAPITA (Us9)                  250.0        400.0    1010.0                   1616.2                    2609.1
&NulGY CUNSUMPTL(N PEA CAPITA
(KILUGRAMS OF CUAL EqULtVALENT)     510.2       659.7      937.9                   1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATIONh AN4 VITAL STATISTICS
YUPULATIUN. MID-YE"  (ThOUSANDS) 15754.0      21266.0   26122.0
URBAN PUPULATIUN (FERCENT UF TOTAL) 48.2          59.8      69.1                     64.2                      53.2
YOFULATIUN PRUJECTIONS
1FutULATIUN IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       39.9
SIATIUNAYA PUPULATION (MILLIONS)                          $1.0
YSEAR STATINiAY POPULATION 1S IEACHED                   2070
PUPULATIUN DENSITY
PEA SQ. KM.                        13.d         18.7      22.9                     34.3                      80.6
FEK sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANUI    72.5         95.7      110.2                     94.5                     133.9
O`uULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 Yha.                          46.8        46.2       38.2                     40.7                      30.1
15-b4 IRS.                          50.3        51.0       s8.6                     55.3                      61.5
65 YiS. AND ABuVE                    2.9         2.8        3.2                      4.0                       8.3
PUPULATION GROWTh RATE (PERCENT)
TuTAL                               3.1         3.0        2.3                      2.4                       1.5
Uh3AN                               5.7          5.2       3.9                      3.7                       3.1
cRUOLE BITS RATE (PER THUUSAND)      45.5         36.3      30.1                     31.4                      22.9
LChUU. DEATH g.ATE (PER THUUSAND)   14.0          9.5       7.9                      8.4                       9.1
ChLUS KEPRODUCTIUON RATE              3.3          2.6       1.9                      2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNlIN
ACCiTUhS, ANNUA.L (THOUSANDS)       ..        115.4     142.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      46.1
1U0O ANDI NUTKITlON
ISOEX UF FU00  PUODUCTION
PF  CAP'ITA (1969-71-00)         100.0        99.0      124.0                    108.3                     119.8
PER cAPrA SUPPLY UF
CALUhRI5 (PERCENT oF
uEquixtXENTS)                    97.0        S8.0      102.0                    107.6                     125.7
YhUIEISS (GRAMS PEP DAY)           54.0        48.0       52.0                     65.8                      92.5
UF WdICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0         24.0      26.0                     34.D                      39.7
LtilLO (AGES 1-4) MURTALiTY RATE     19.8         12.0       8.3                      7.6                       3.4
EAJU.Th
LIF EXPECTANCY AT  IRiTh (YEARS)    53.3         59.1      62.7                     64.1                      68.9
INFANIT MRTALITY RATE (PER
IHUUSANU)                            77.0           ..      65.0                     70.9                      25.2
ACLESS TU SAFE WATER (PERcENr or
PIUPULATIUN)
TUTAL                              30.0/          ..      64.0                     65.7
UhBAN                              54.9Jd                 73.0                     79. 7
hURAL                               6.Bd          *-      46.0                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCIETA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
uF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          47.0       44.4                     39.9
Uh8AN                                ..         75.0      60.0                     75.7
RURAL                                *-         8.0       14.0                     30.4
PUPULArIUN PEP. PHYSICLAN          2638.9      2189.5    1966.7                    1728.2                     973.3
POPULAlIUN PER NURSINC PERSON      3740.0       1923.4    1250.0                   1288.2                     896.6
PUPULATIUN PER HOSPITAL BE0
TOTAL                             362.9       449.4      619.1                    471.2                     262.3
uRBAN                                *-       377.5      540.3                    558.0                     191.8
hUhAL.                               ..           ..        .                         ..
AOMISSUIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         22.9      29.8                       ..                      18.2
OUUSING
AVERAGE SIZE UF hOUSEHOLD
TuTAL                                ..         5.7/c
URSAN                                ..         5.3Lc
RURAL                                .-          5.9        *
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         1.8Lc
URBN                                 ..          1. 6c
RURAL                                ..          2.4/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICirY (PERCENT
UF OWELLIUGS)
ruTAL                              47. Ld       58.l/c
UhAN                               83.0 0d     S7.5c
hURAL                               8.0 Ld      13.2/c



Annex I
- 27 -                                         Page 2 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA91S
- MosT RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE                   MIDINC   MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  77.0        103.0     124.0                     101.7                      105.9
NALE                  77.0        101.0      122.0                    103.0                      109.6
FEMAI.E               77.0        105.0      127.0                    101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         24.0      43.0                      35.3                       66.3
MALE                  13.0         24.0       43.0                     34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                11.0         24.0       44.0                     35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)  31.0/e         20.0       22.0                     30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0         38.0      33.0                      29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                           11.0         17.0      21.0                      15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0         80.8         *                      80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         11.2       18.1                     42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         125.1        104.3     117.1                     215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           9.5         38.1      74.0                      89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   56.0           ..       54.4                     62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        4.1                      3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
*TOTAlB!OR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        4726.5       6353.4    8652.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    19.2         24.8      24.7                      22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.4         37.9       27.1                     35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2         21.0      21.1                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.0         29.9       33.1                     31.8                       42.3
MALE                                  48.8         45.1       49.8                     49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                11.5         14.8       16.4                     14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7          1.6        1.2                       1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/d f    31.9/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7           60.17 l
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2 17di         3.57        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.87d.f    10.17           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     214.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     197.0                     187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     267.0                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     122.0                     362.2                      385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      34.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depands on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to aty year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1973;  /d 1964;  /a Including teacher training at the third level;  /f Economically active population.
May, 1981



- 28 -
Annex I
2t10n0T009  OrSCLMCT                                                                   Page   3   of   5
Iitp    1.thtedt  r  d'n     to   eag-os  *emroll  lodged' oh. es  -atnit...... so   el. W  .LA,It Mheel  .1.b. h   totd that the7 WY tot be   tr
Oaiocl  oArOWble b"e  of the lech Of *Can.daoL.d d.fiit.-to  en   ateteod by fiffeimt remt:lo  i.e oolletig the d.rt.  The dAtae.tos
thla.   ef c  to de.flba ardft. of micede., Indicat  t-ed., and                 -aeaai.  etin eate   WU ---ora   b.-~ ooarie-
The  ol 'm. B.-.   Al.. (1) the on        -C tewta  ge  Of the acOlet onueoy td 12) r coatry trot) with --mwb4t higher toars. i  0-tmte  theco,tt  rt
Of the oeheo  ooeeoey (-.P. f-r "Capioal 3ao)l   Oil  yo r" poe  eh.,. 'iVddle tea. Ua-th Attica ed tOddle Ies-' I. oboe  b---. of ate
Oori--rl-tri  'filtloa).  Tn the  w.ra   pea  dat. th, anal. ..at  -ocainwighted altb-tc  -en  for each tadL.at-  We  se  Only A-e
.al-ity If the .o.r _    i"   a Ore'P ha  dat' far that ledicea.f      I ioa-  th' oo'-rg  of tortta  ae  the t.dao            .    'e~   ow the  wL.blabtllY Of date
ead to -oa  aalfoo. ceotla  -a  b. eeCLsed Ln reLatixq  tegeof or  niae   tast Wm.  rheW esae                              ol  .5E.1   In .0pleg  the  -ola, Of
_t LddtOa or  t a tim  e., the eoe,r  eed           feo. oPo..
LAND 104   I ..h.on.d eq. e..)                                                                P.."titlt re  B."i   -ld-oto.ohe.~n.1 - PaPoIactOO (tota.
Toa    ffca   00,. ste. c        1-tn d a-e  an  ld i..   raeb. thr   -ndtoal  di.ide  hy th'ta  reptto   Ae   of haitte  bede
00~.oooa  -Lateee o  atioltreleoa andtoooiy  0  presl                               -tatiell  t  Poblito sd prtVs.fgtra   .  ep--IliedbO.enie  anw-
for .to.. P.,Pe0tet, m-bt end ktob-  arldin  or to IL. fall.; 197 B do..                     hbhillttie   eee..      toepit.j. e  t   sahl-t yre.tly et.ffad
by at 1ee  0   phyto.i.    trbt- iot  p-rrrtia   Plrie -itllytt
Itt  00.lirCh 71$ cm 0P-pttl eqiAtte   to oa-ren   -ahe  fr            ..Ica-              dia  rae et         L.Iaedsd.  total hop    bl.. hwee   I-tIda health
--aWd oy  Oe io,eeaete d an W-rid tBh Adi.. (1977-79 teal.); 1960.                            an   di-aloetr  tot retmotoy eratfed by e phytloOse (hot hb  a
197i  t.d  Y97  AO..                                                                           eW.di.l  oire         Ie.ed-If..  fo.) otO.h  ff.er te-1-potee   co
datiat  -d p-old. . bltad  -rar   of -i-doa  faili.iea.  F-r soei-
en   lal.prtalem..  eanlOl.     en d hyo- itlaO  and loooha'r ala-                      and  -L oal  hetta16 I-ol orn.-eptl               d -edico. sad   t-icy
ItrtCtty) 00  iIoese of-re   qcrlo  p           - Ii-  1060. 1970. aa  197 9                   o e.SrO-L.ie-d hosPital. ore  eoloded e.II -dA.ta.
data                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ddeleeooa    r..Not.It  Bed - Ttot   osbet ofWW..te   to- o  dlehat-e
f_O   eptl  dtlde  hy the e,bo of heda.
my '..fl0  MMt VITAL S'TAXTZICS
Total yo,oLato- 71id-To,, (thaae-d.  - A. of -Salt 1; 190. 197D. od. 1979                  ______
dAta.                                                                                      *eAee1    o   f a.e1'Nrtrt  a   eo.eo   totl,abnsd tl -bM
dl(freot Ao thtlot  oforbsare, m   affeat -"tb1lity of del.                        .nd  -h1.mi  -.Ile.  A bo.. detr  lOf dger My  WttY tot he icladnd 1
a0o~co.te;1960. 1970. s.d 1979 dot..                                                lbs h e... ad f..o .. -tott Is  owt-re
Poonletlot. reoteatioto                                          Averas. eeo o~~~~~~~f oeos  orro  -ttl etn             4edioa  - A-ere. 
Oo,o.to  Oyer2000 - C-rn  POPelat1Ot Pooleott  toe hosed  -o1990                             hbf ofprneprre  t   Uchn   .                    e  oopa rttoa
totIal yP,alatln  by et. an  so  -d tbl.o erteicty end fertUlty trot...                    d-ellgee. rorye.t1-y.  V-1llog  welad    -yreP             at e-t--eaae  end
MrloltPa-tat. tar metaity ter   olo   of three le-e. so                                     -..tPIad Parta.
.sl "ll e aat.ey  to birth inanmotn  withomtyePat .aPita tPore.                         dAtea  to tle-rtill (ostom  of dwllrl- Itt. orhee. en  _oL 
0Ve1. and (mel, Ife            m.ae . tbi  lo   t If.5 Years.  The  ae                    C-teeieeI dm11105. with Iletltif,at  IO 1i-ric9 q-tea        . ta perteeal
Lot1 feotoLco   tae.    -0be  tatee leel aesa.    ln  0.                              rf total. utter  re  0.0.1 dwtliee  -ormttwtly
fe tilt  so-edlo  Is  ea    bed  ed tea  t-1.ly   letr  yartteet..
leol oo"'or  te "t" eee          - e  Of theee PI_.oblej.Of motility                   0DCAUTIO
00d fri-tlry rr-Ae  foe Poojotia   0P-ae-.                                               Adlett  tOolndtRet.1
-   . 0  .tlaeey PePItLsta   torc  gb.    rowh  onetIo    ea'-                  ol - tatl. _el edMi. - G_t.  total  -1ia end tal
h. Iot  raet  qoe1             the death oa...  end elanth  age etr.ato    r-                eeollm   of allIag. at the tri          . ae   Wa p-rrtsgw   of teepetiwe
eat.  -aeaa.  ThIs 04 eahi-re  aty after fe-tliity rtee daclle  to                           prI""   baheo-aga Ppatlntot; PT-II? 1-Lelde  chlldtea .ged &-f
'ha -.Pte -m  1tOl of sit ret raeodmtie  rota, the  tab ta-e.ts                              teat. bWt adjeat   f o  dittar-t I-Nth. At roOms, edecela; f
of  r    rtl.re  taaf e tectly. Teleloo' Ppertt"I            ce                         oreoaee   tt  ati_a_e  __uctr_  __ _aOl  my  __e   100pec
etletrdor oo beleOf the p-inted  obeoateatatoe of che popraltlee                      alae e-  pepie are  l1w at three the etfi.r   boea  el..
not Itel.edatalat  etalee a  len yfor  tea. af  ppraed tinso  lnafatim.P
W1.ir   o    -erhtd                                                                    -aTry at 11 0. 17 year o ama oetedmt  o..e.oe     ere
fo   ,.t. -04-erepltete rotaek11lme   (100    iere.) af                                   yeeceloobetiate   f aeodrt-VO`OA-It   ai-tilOlte
-011  1sa   960. 1970 ted 1979 data.                                                         telde  ehecl  edtte. o   ce  Pospra wto   ret,.d
ftr  o. L. eo,tolcool ld - Copee  ea aW e.  for agtict-ltrc  lead                        -rtyora  depetteent  Of -moodery IeittimlO..
0.1-f; 1906 I.197 0 to0 1978 d.c..                                                         Poti-taher lttt    - ar1--w -ad  -toodao  - ftal. eteot   Ual" O
U.laie  d  Orot-      Irewom    - OblIdre  (0-16 ymr).  -ktll9-el  (15-                    otllety end  -modar  I.el  difidd by -neog of  -ea.oatIth
rod reotrd (63  ter  and a.) orPe-orag f0 .04-ea  Part-                             ooor wraosn  I=rt
eo~1060. 1970. en  1979 de..                                                           Adalt litera7 ret. (oerast) - Liteteta  W"tc  (aAle to rued -4 -it-)
foolaio            R-whlae(are   - t-tLl - OA-e  Ot .tete  of total .i4-                           r   p -otog  of tora1 edalt popooetl    SWe I5 yeare end t
fotroaaiee(01950-60. 160-70-t, end 19f0-79.
- ooleto  Growh lat. (rc )- arbor - AnaL gowt  -eu  Of arbor POPe-
ltoeor101~00-0.19d.70  and 1070-10.                                                  Oeeasae far  (rot thr-ord  PoaeOn) - e ee  care  moPIst  We
Crab. Oitro  lae_ pa  coaed      asel lir- bltce Pot shooad of                                        -.-pe  cresatn   I.ee than eight Pe-ota   -IWee   -bleo-e..  hee-   end
I4uais;161. 1970, end 1979 daaUlitrty  -ehw-ee
CocOa Dleec  Rtac   o   btoae) - AnalI dead. pot Obr-en   Of e0A'yee                         Reldi   atvr(r   toerdooltt    - All tyte   f -retr  far o'ua
Orroltltl196,  07. ed1979  e.                                                          teteet   mtlp i t              et h-Oeea  of paptltlo-  eOtndt  or
Ta  ..-Io.  reptOdatiet P-0    it she    etlsao   Pt-m   geaallofWo.t.  -  .I  effort; daU f. or   -tm  Yorte my maf ho  -*.rbl. Pi--
U11rrte  awlyfe-ya   ore -Ct=                a  i. 1960. 1970,. ad 199IO    Ostie  hlea   tean
of tt-oto  delr.oda   epi                          - o   atae  I aey obeeron  P-oP-.         1amarel     I peit   rt Obe-ee  ~PPelrie; orldaaloedTV ter
ted,tiaaloe    Oe. fetostof  -wOe rr.) - Po-oreg  of m-tid                            InO0tOe  and Ur Y-er  et   -fiall-OP Of TV aets  eaIn effort.
'rof cbild-baer0-  ge(15-66 too.) -h  am bintht              I  -1-onte   nio  toOpOttCre.to   ertaen Y ---latne) -th                                  the aeg   Itt.-
p01=icrte  4-.rse   prol-rily to  Oseron  a .   u.O   nctOen
Pon Alm                                                                  t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I be 'daily' if it appee. At Ieoe  fea  tIn5  0.
lode  Of Food rredetcae aerCec   (1999-71-i099 -   dor of pea cepita  --eL                   CIen dA--  -itod-.ee -attO5.0 fear - ise.d -  ihe  -ns Of
rrodoea  of all fon1 td-Witr-  roodactim              ne  eed  n  I."e                       tiahace   Id d-onf the toot. toaladie  adeLese to dria-IO  I.a-
lote   f -s-a) w1hia  a-  edMbl  ed  --o eto.       a  (.g.off- oren
tee art oded).  Asp-Pt. pod          fgn   a--ed  ootoy i.e booed otW    FR
tatIat-l   -t.ag  Prwdrcer poe   eiA.  16-    1970. -a  1979 dAta-oa-.h-ttt(toaes  - tr-A -11  retire 9atet. iLarldio
P., cent. ease, at oa.l_i   (--om  o  rorope)                 -tMete! (Os                           f.rroe  anOaP-PI7d ht eacledtng t.. -1e  etenr.ot
ateoy rttrcsw   f  -a  feed mrpilee a-Ulbl. Ln somtt  ",t tatt.                       opegpaptIieti  at all ag.  Dfiitaltot  In celoaropee
pot day.    Areilbl  mPPlleO  orle    4amael  ptdoit.Imat, Iee                             ml. -ampebls; 190. 1970 at  1979 Aec..
lfrt!..  a  oheege  L. etOr.  ee   arlemI.eit fe,eee                                      wL(gi           - ?-.le leto  fats. a Pa-tdtseg  at -"tI Ibe  trt..
1c. Oir  odI  fart F-men.         aeoUI,beobon.  eae-                            ertL.lre(-rror) - L.ahr  -ao  to to-e -. pety. h_fe    _4
macaore aetmoedby 90   uadoepyeenea               - ed. fI ow ot1 each-               f_ahln  1npor-tetge Of tota  Ieorfor   1940. 1910 an  1i7td"           a
tiy  edhelt  t-Sidlastn  eeeir.Pm-at  ttsewr. bady -elat.. eg                          aso  otmt-IlttrtL.  l g.   o0m000ioe  m steOlng
sdssdietribetee Of ppeItlan. end  UnawIn  10 percet f o --ot ot                        an  t-mtiOity,  -16t an  P. .. P-t.steg   at tatal lehar 00,0; 110.
haweohld Lsteit 1961-65. 1970. -ed 1977 deo.                                               1970 endI179 datr.
we  e lOf toed  r ay Ne ePPly Of fred i.e drflsb  Wn  bte.  I.-                      ettytrmowopttn  As totl*m                      s   tale  lola- ft... as
feoat    totl  otetlo  steotlob     by 0200 tr-eld  for elOpte                                 eOf tota.L  -L.e ad famle perolelo  o  al age. ror-t.ciew
elioaeo  Ot 60 grm  of Iatel Parce. per daY ad 20 gra   of -aim             d              1960. 1970. end 1979 de..  Thee  -r  bo-e  Wn I1.rrtirto    sa
ytole  prtin   f tetinh 10  Mo    h-Ild he ae-Lm  Pootat.  Th-n  egeed-                    teflertloa  See-Oa  ecorro   at the pettlttle. -nd lae tim  ti..d.  A
aod  ate 1lat  tho  thre  Of 73 c.On   f t-la  rtIO and 23 gr   of                         far Zeattel   ste tre  PAece.L.I      te
enamI Pi-oc. Wn an eveeg  tar th  5.r14.  -pot d by FAO In the MUir                      tael   uedathlo-lto  fpp                        e  ardor 1.5 ad hO ad-.i
-Itd toad twve; 1%161'5. 1970 end 1977 del..                                               te th  totl le,frc.-. i  P     FO
P.o Cat   repi     osnrftr   anial ete  ma-br- f'rwa   ropyiy At feed 4.-
tl'd, fOe  rsb  an   els   . p-  p.t dot; 1961-65. 1970 oo   9tdc4m                           o'gn
11110 (aa. 1-01 WotlUoot Pate 19   Wateed) - AnsI dente  per chee-ed IOs                                                                   go-omoFovt  la    (0htocah  - tmrre'  by tiohee
re S.eat 1-6  ore  to Obibda   In this ag  g,.p; far mat detelpig  50                          P-rs. rctlheao 20prm.poea   0pts.ed peaor  hrrtra
-obe  -em  do-te  tr_m  lfe tablr  1960. 1970 -d 1979 deir-                                  or hot ede..
OZALCIcw-
..f Oocoree  ltot  (Year) - A--M.e P-6- of terre 00 111f  r5ieaa                          ThfI0-grtre   ar   syap ot                          ee f Pt-cY leetl..
orbilth; 1960  190sd170dc.d eha."  be lac.  ,ated with oaaodaosbl  ootioe.
Inan -forOlt  Mt.t (pe th--Wd  A- ma  deaths ef Infote oedt  am year                     gaioo   00..PwrvIoe  ae  0b a  ele      te rd  -ot   -
of ama P.t heodlit'. bitha.                                                                  Ielt   aerylcnb li Phtlo   lwlhlo   eih. a elede
a  ts.t  sofa W,... (tetstat  asletlo - toa. e . -sd torol - *mt-.                         eafltritict1  adaqat  diet peI-        mea   e.~  a  oqO ltae  ta  -to
..re    pprly (iPIncu.   -ttoldsetr  tetat   . tO--te          I ho   nceee               totoet    R.lto                     L-ro  mo   l.5   00to  ata      040edne 
P.a. W . .   ofthei   aprae  pop.Ult-               Ee . O atal,c-    yablirPePP.Ie leon  at the tosty.f-be  Iol Os d-1-d foa  tI                                   -oal
faoal  a etadpeet leered  et   te. tbhe 200 meat. ftm  r ho.o my he                          1.oel with WdOPfftt far hight- aret of 1oling in arboreo
fcset  sol tloree (esttomg of atclo  a -IMT.. drbp.-  ord rarId.
,h.de  of  sLo (ttl  uhe  endI'~'  rAal         er    byWO   fcec  o-iare-eC4  _                                                                      ~     ft i
the r-Oosia  and Oieeea.- ebb or PTtb.c -roano  oft Plil                -oat                                                     roemed        toie  to. -1     oi---
oad  ete-tte  hi.  wettv..lrro        t   or"A these  ofc pocrtoo sa p1*1*                                                                       W"eaaaeytna    twoletn eprt
L02l9An29..fltom -Peeltuo  ietodi,  b7 -ne         , pet.cloap-yi-
ml. sod f-ake tre-..e P-.ee. PoortLoe  masse  adeisno s



- 29 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                         Page 4 of
Population: 26,670,000 (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: US$1010 a/
Amount                Average Annual Increase (,)        Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
Indicator                                              (aillion US$               (at constant 1970 prices)                (at current prices)
at current prices)
1980 b/                1960-70   1970-75   1975-80       1960       1970       1975 *  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product c32,686                                                           5.3        6.1         5.8      100.0    100.0       100.0    100.0
Agriculture                                                   8,197                    3.5        5.2        4.0        34.1      28.6       29.3      25.2
Industry                                                     8.799                    6.2        6.1         4.4        25.7      26.6       28.3      29.2
Services                                                    12,559                     5.9       7.3         6.4        40.2      44.8       42.4      45.6
Consumption                                                    24,435                    5.9        6.6         5.6        79.4     69.6       81.6      74.7
Gross Investment                                                7,994                    5.1        0.6         8.5        20.5     22.0       17.8      24.4
Exports of goods and NFS                                        5,648                    3.1        5.9        10.0        15.6     14.2       15.1      17.4
Imports of goods and NFS                                        5,391                   4.3         1.1       12.7        15.5      15.8       14.5      16.'
*               ,Gross national savings                                          8.103                    5.2        5.3        10.8        19.4      18.0       16.8     24.,
Composition of Merchandise Trade (7.)
(at current prices)
1960    1970       1975      1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                                       4.428                    3.3        1.4       10.8        100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0
Major primary                                                 2,871                    2.8      -4.6        12.8        72.5      69.4       51.2      64.8
Major manufactures                                              686                     -       23.8         6.5           -       9.0       24.5      15.5
Other                                                           871                     -        3.8          5.4          -      21.6       24.3      19.7
Merchandise Exports (CIF)                                       4.533                    3.5       -2.3         9.0      100.0    100.0       100.0 o   l0o.G 
Food                                                            364                  10.0       -0.1        13.4         2.4       4,5        4.8       8.,
Petroleum                                                       750                 -21.4       70.6        43.5         2.0        -         2.0      16.5
Machinery and equipment                                       1,750                    5.2      -8.5        11.0        42.7      50.6       36.4      38.6
Other                                                         1,669                    1.8        2.4         5.4       52.9      44.9       56.8      36.9
1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979      1980  bt
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                                         27.6        20.8       23.6       28.3       17.1       23.9     24.5
Exchange rate                                                        27.1        31.2       35.0       36.9       39.3       42.6     47.3
Export price index                                                  155.4       159.7      214.5      303.6      260.2      262.2    294.9
Import price index                                                  210.3       217.3      233.5      254.3     202.0      220.6    252.2
Terms of trade index                                                 73.9        73.5       91.9      119.4      128.8      118.8    117.0
As % of GOP
(at current Prices)
1970          1975         1980 f/
PUBLIC FINANCE d/
Current revenue                                                                             10.6          11.1         12.1
Current expenditure                                                                          5.7           6.6          8.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                                   4.9           4.5          3.9
Capital expenditure                                                                          1.8           4.6          4.6
Foreign financing e/                                                                         3.3           2.9          3.2
1960-70      1970-75       1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                                          5.10         6.30         6.00
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                                                               2.00         3.90         3.70
Energy consumption growth rate (7)                                                           5.00         4.00         4.00
ICOR /                                                                                       3.54         3.43         4.00
Marginal savings rate h/                                                                     0.13         0.13         0.16
Import elasticity                                                                            1.17         0.16         2.20
a/ World Bank Atlas Method.
b/ Estimated.
c/ At market prices: Components are expressed at factor cost and will not add because of exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
d/ Central Government.
e/ Gross disbursements of external loans to the entire public sector.
f/ Includes Social Security and Fondo Vial.
g/ Lagged one year.
h/ Increment to gross domestic savings/increment to gross domestic product.
April 24, 1981



BALANCE OF MAYpNTS, EKTERNAL CAPITAL. AND DEBT
Population           26,670,000 (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita:   US$1010  a/ (1979)                                                                                    (million US$ at osrerat price.)
Actual                                                                              Projected
1974          1975          1976          1977         1978          1979           1980 6/         1981           1982          1983          1984          1985
'I
BALANCE OF PAYPITPS
Exports of goods and non-fact.r  er,ic eG                                     1000          2165          2782          3404          4059          4910          5327             4932          5660          6367           7323          8193
lnpor ts of gNods and  onfcrservice.                                          1149          2030          2302-         2730      -  3722           4191          5376             6361          7369          8401           944.6        10415
Resource Balance                                                                  -149          .135           480           674           337           719           -49           -1429         -1709          -2034         -2123         -2222
Net factor payents                                                            -10           -6             7-           -23-5         -24           -27 ZT7-                        =Y            T43            -i           m17           -t9
Net unrequired transfers                                                        27            48             21            16             7             4            26              35            40             45            50            45
Current Accou.nt Balance                                                          -302           -80           222           455            97           596          -195           -1063          -1526         -1990         -2248         ..249
Net direct foreign i-vet-et                                                         39            32            14            43            56           124           234              150           175           300           450            600
Mlediuo  and long term  loans (net)                                                202           308           131           192            72           703           838              713           951          1240          1448           1.59
to public sector                                                               (160)         (234)          (109)        (195)          (92)         (6031          (761)           (691)         (912)        (1164)         (1335)        (1463)
to private nectec                                                                (42)          (54)          (22)         (-3)         (-20)         (100)           (57)            (22)          (39)           (76)         (113)         LD
Other capital                                                                       55          -121           195           162           391          -158           264               -             -             -              -
Capital Account Balance                                                            296           219           340           397           519           669         1L336              863          1126          1540          1898           2186
Change in Reservea (--  incr-se)                                                     6          -139          -562          -852         -616         -1265         -1141               200           400           450           350            300
Intert,atoni .. NIRserves (official)                                               152           547          1166          1830         2482          4106           5416            5216          4816           4366          4016          3716
Roonrvee as moths of inporta                                                       1.6           3.2           6.1           8.0           8.0          11.8          12.1              9.8           7.8           6.2           5.1            4.3
GROSS DISBEDESENETS c/
Official granta                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Gross diab.r.enents of MTL loans                                                235            390           262           371          319          1036          1131
Conceasiosl.                                                                     102            39            47            27           60             36            53
Bilateral                                                                     (100)           (37)          (44)         (21)          (53)          (28)          (16)
Other l4.ltil.tara1                                                              (2)           (2)           (3)           (6)          (7)            (a)          (37)
Non-.onceasiona.l                                                               133            351          215           345           260          1000          1078
Official export credita                                                        (26)           (14)          (0)          (14)          (19)          (47)         (113)
IBRO                                                                           (58)         (106)           (76)         (85)          (82)         (138)         (216)
Other x,ltilatoral                                                              (14)          (19)          (27)         (31)          (33)          (31)           (82)
Private                                                                        (35)         (212)         (112)         (214)         (125)         (783)         (665)
EXTERNAL DEBT (end of period) c
Debt Outstanding and diaborsed                                                 1249          2346          2453          2670          2803          3426          4295
Official                                                                      1074          1716          1761          1862          1999          2151          2446
IB81D                                                                       (354)         (634)         (672)         (716)        (751)          (838)        (1035)
lIDA                                                                         (20)          (22)          (22)          (22)          (22)          (22)          (21)
Other                                                                       (700)        (1060)        (1019)        (1124)        (1225)        (1291)        (1390)
Private                                                                      174           632           668           808           804          1275          1849
Undiab.road Debt                                                                602           663            908         1040          1516          1993          2409
DEBT SERVICE et
Tctal debt service payments of which                                           119           249           278,          313           398           664           568
Interest                                                                      44           114           188           137           171           231           268
Paymaents as % ..eports of goods and
all Emer~ies                                                                11.6          11.1           9.5           8.8           9.5          12.5           9.9
Payents as 7. GNP                                                              1.7           1.9           1.9           1.6           1.8           2.4           1.7
Average interest rate oo  -e  bane(7.                                            5.8           7.4           6.5           7.4           7.9          10.3          10.2
Official                                                                      (5.1)         (6.1)         (5.8)         (7.3)         (7.6)         (7.8)()
Private                                                                       (6.9)         (8.2)         (7.5)         (7.6)         (8.6)        (12.0)        (12.3)
Average matority of new loans (ysare)                                          22.4           15.1         14.8          16.0          14.1           12.6          13.7
Official                                                                     (30.1)        (26.1)        (20.0)        (17.9)        (16.2)        (16.8)(-
Private                                                                       (9.7)         (8.2)         (7.4)         (7.6)         (9.1)        (10.0)        (10.2) 
RANK( GROUP EXPOSURE (7.) c
CBR0 DOD/tota  DOD                                                             28.4          27.0          27.4          26.8          26.43         24.5          24.1
IBRD diab.sraeme tetotl gross dinhua-.snt.                                     24.6          27.1          28.9          22.9          25.7          13.3          19.3
I88R3 debt service/total debt service                                          34.4          28.9          13.7          14.3           8.8          13.1          25.4
IDA, DOD/total DOD                                                              1.6            1.0          0.9           0.8           0.8            0.6          0.5
1136 disb-raements/t.tal gross diahureenets                                              -                    -             -            -              -             -
MA1 d,bt' servi.eitot.l debt service-                                                         0.1            0.1          0.1           0.1           0.0            0.0
AlIforld Bask Atlas MIethsod
h/Pr.lielnry,
ofPublic end poblioly guaranteed debt
November 11, 1981
Colombia Divloioc



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
57 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,070.6      23.5 /1   --
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2                 .6
920     1973  Colombia                          Education          21.2               7.6
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0                6.3
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                 4.1
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0               10.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0                 2.0
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0               16.5
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0                14.9
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   58.3                50.1
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0                 1.0
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0               39.6
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0               18.2
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8               11.6
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              22.3
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0               87.3
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0               15.9
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0                9.8
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0                14.4
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports          61.0               32.9
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0               41.3
1694    1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              12.6
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply      30.0               27.9
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million,



-32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30,1981) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1725    1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power              72.0             72.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal             Water Supply        31.0             31.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria         Agriculture Cr.   20.0               18.6
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.               Mining-Nickel       80.0             18.3
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica   Power                 87.0             87.0
de Bogota
1825 /1 1980  Empresas Publicas de             Communications    44.0               44.0
Medellin
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.    32.0               29.6
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   150.0              150.0
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                125.0            125.0
1953 /2 1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 85.0             85.0
1966 /1 1981 -Colombia                         Rural Roads         33.0             33.0
1996 /2 1981  Instituto Colombiano de          Irrigction          37.0             37.0
Hidrologia
1999 /2 1981  Corporacion Electrica de la    Power                 36.0             36.0
Costa Atlantica
2008 /2 1981  Empresa de Energia               Power              359.0            359.0
Electrica de Bogota
TOTAL                                           3,254.9      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          561.5       2.3
Total now outstanding                           2,693.4      21.2
Amount sold                         51.0
Of which has been repaid            45.1            5.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  2,687.5      21.2
Total undisbursed                                                 1,573.2
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September  30, 1981)
Type of            Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board          .50      -        .50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products       1.99    .08       2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans           .70      -        .70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture       .08    .09        .17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment         .50       -        .50
1962       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing            -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development            -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles           1.98    .15        2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing            -    .81        .81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging         -   1.27        1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing        1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                 Livestock          1.00    .58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles           5.00   2.60        7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism               -    .01         .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del         Development            -    .45        .45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development           -    .43         .43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism              .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism             .80    .25        1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing               -    .46         .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement             1.50       -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement             3.60       -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                         Mining             6.00       -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities          13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material         2.43    .30        2.73
1980       Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing            9.00    .19        9.19
1981       Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals 12.15   3.42       15.57
Total Gross Commitments                              61.46  17.26      78.72
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              46.65   8.91       55.56
Total commitments now held by IFC                    14.81   8.35      23.16
Total undisbursed                                     8.54    .42       8.96



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
As of September 30, 1981 1/
1.        Ln. No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; US$2.2 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - September 30, 1981
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977 and as of September 30, 1981, US$0.6 million remained undis-
bursed. Settlement of farmers within the project areas was only partially
carried out and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs
improvement. Because heavy seasonal rainfall in 1979 resulted in severe
flooding in the project area, a study is being carried out to reassess the
flood protection and drainage requirements of the area. The project comple-
tion mission will take place in March 1982, once the report by the hydrologic
consultants has been completed.
2.        Ln. No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution was suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition of
sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 after the Bank agreed
to redimension of the project to give greater emphasis to primary education,
but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government proposed to the
Bank to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the
loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as modified in
1977. Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in
planning, construction, educational programming and personnel training, and
project execution is proceeding normally. Nevertheless, because of the delay
and higher costs, the scope of the project has been reduced. The closing date
of the loan will be extended by an additional three months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
3.        Ln. No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$27 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981
Project implementation slower during the first semester of 1981
because of managerial problems and the ground water component and subprojects
in Bananquilla, Cartagena and Villavicencio are now expected to be completed
by the end of 1982. Despite the delays, works on the other four subprojects
are expected to be completed before December 31, 1981. INSFOPAL's management
has been urged to strengthen project supervision and to accelerate project
execution and disbursements. As of September 30, 1981, US$20.7 million or
77% of the loan has been disbursed.
4.        Ln. No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million,
June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1981
Project implementation is behind schedule and the closing date will
need to be extended by one year to December 31, 1982 in order to complete
project targets. A recurring problem, which imposes serious operational
constraints, is the slow transfer of counterpart funds to the project. As
of September 30, 1981, US$4.1 million or 21% of the loan remained undisbursed.
To facilitate the completion of the project, the closing date of the loan will
be extended for one year.
5.        Ln. No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 mil-
lion, September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1983
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and implementation is still behind
schedule. One of the project's main problems continues to be inadequate
budget allocations to carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to
farmers. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan,
technical assistance to farmers and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries
are inadequate; the executing agencies are taking corrective measures. The
project's social component, schools, domestic water supply and health, is
progressing satisfactorily. As of September 30, 1981, US$10.2 million or
about 49% of the loan amount had been disbursed.



- 36 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
6.        Ln. No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 mil-
lion, March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed.  As of September 30, 1981, about 98% of the loan had
been disbursed.
7.        Ln. No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fifth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, and
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and first stage evaluation is currently underway.
As of September 30, 1981, US$35.5 million, or 68% of the loan had been disbursed.
8.        Ln. No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million,
February 4, 1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
The US$25 million assigned to medium and large farmers has been fully
committed and disbursed. However, only 39% of subloans allocated to small
farmers have been committed, and no satisfactory arrangement has yet been
found to speed up commitments. Concern over possible diversion and substitu-
tion of subloan funds led the Borrower to increase substantially its end-use
supervision. About 85% of loan funds for credit to agroindustries have been
committed for 160 subprojects. As of September 30, 1981, US$49.1 million, or
77% of the loan had been disbursed.
9.        Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project had been delayed as a result of several key personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expan-
sion, and design of buildings to house equipment. Satisfactory progress is
being made in the acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies.
As of September 30, 1981, US$50.1 million, or 86% of the loan, remained
undisbursed.



37 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10.       Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    September 30,1981
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds are
fully committed. As of September 30, 1981, 93% of the loan had been disbursed.
11.       Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. All rehabilitation works have been contracted and
25% of the roads completed. The maintenance program began in March 1980;
consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out the program have been retained and
the bulk of the maintenance equipment has been purchased. The vehicle weight
control program is about to begin after a 28-month delay. As of September 30,
1981, about US$50.4 million had been disbursed.
12.       Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress has been achieved in the major components of health,
nutrition education and water supply but execution is running about a year
behind schedule. Initial delays occurred in two subsidiary components--home
food production and food quality control--but activities are now underway.
Project management and coordination have been sound, flexible and effective.
Project monitoring and evaluation systems are operating effectively.
13.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Because of EMCALI's failure to comply with some of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement dealing with the finances of its Water and Sewerage
Division, on January 29, 1981, the Bank suspended disbursements under this
loan. Disbursements were resumed on September 4, 1981 once EMCALI has taken
corrective measures. As of September 30, 1981, US$11.6 million or 84% of the
loan remained undisbursed.



- 38 -                         ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14.       Ln. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
While project execution and coordination has recently improved,
overall progress is still running behind schedule. Project implementation
plans in 16 of the 23 cities have been approved by the Bank. The new General
Manager of SIP intends to accelerate project implementation and has established
a working unit to monitor progress and evaluate the project. For some time,
the Bank has been recommending a review of the project scope to ensure its
completion on time and recently SIP has presented a proposal which, while not
changing the basic concept of the project, involves design modifications in
most components. This proposal is currently being reviewed by the Bank.
15.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, .1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule and main contracts for
equipment have been signed. As of September 30, 1981, US$38.7 million or
31% of the loan had been disbursed.
16.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about two years as a result of KfW's objection to the contract award for
substations (KfW was originally to finance this component). The Government is
obtaining other sources of finance. The line is to be energized temporarily
at 220 kV in 1982, pending full completion of the works.
17.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. Construction and the promotional campaign are
both well under way, but there have been delays in contracting the water supply
works and in construction of a portion of the access road. Difficult soil
conditions encountered at the site require that substantial soil investigations
be carried out before site preparation is initiated.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
18.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and loan funds are virtually
fully committed. As of September 30, 1981, 87% of the loan, or about US$85.6
million, had been disbursed.
19.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well under way. Because of poor soils, there is a
construction delay at the future Rio Negro airport and instrumentation has been
installed in order to estimate amount of camber necessary to compensate for
future settlement. As of September 30, 1981, about 54% of the loan had been
disbursed.
20.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well advanced, although with a 3-6 month delay.
Higher-than-anticipated costs (estimated at US$62 million) are expected as a
result of higher bids than forecast at appraisal. As of September 30, 1981,
49% of the loan had been disbursed.
21.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Effective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
The project is about 18 months behind schedule, with cost overruns,
which are mainly due to inflation, of about 39%. As of September 30, 1981,
US$12.6 million, or 97% of loan funds remained undisbursed.
22.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Significant progress has been made on the Bogota River sewage treatment
and rectification study, the construction of water and sewerage systems in low-
income barrios, the purchase of meters and of maintenance equipment. Implementa-
tion of major civil works, however, has been slow. Loan disbursements are only



40AA -                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
8% of appraisal projections and project completion is now scheduled for
December 31, 1983, one year later than the scheduled appraisal completion date.
EAAB is presently taking adequate measures to implement all project components
and further delays are not anticipated.
23.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date:  June 19, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Project works are proceeding well, with good performance by the Borrower.
24.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project implementation is under way with the final designs for 21 of
the 23 subprojects approved and with designs for the remaining subprojects in
final stages of preparation. INSFOPAL has agreed on a master contract amendment
for subsidiary loan agreements which, when executed, will allow accelerated
construction and loan disbursements. The general performance of the Borrower
(INSFOPAL) is not yet fully satisfactory. Corrective measures will need to be
taken and a supervision mission is scheduled to review the problem. As of
September 30, 1981, the loan remained undisbursed.
25.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Disbursements are lagging, even taking into account the one year delay
in effectiveness, mostly because of slow on-lending commitments. The revolving
fund for credit is working well, but overall financial management of INCORA
needs strengthening. As of September 30, 1981, 9% of the loan had been disbursed.
26.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Effective Date: July 3, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
The project is expected to be completed by April 1982. Cost overruns
will require a revision of the financing plan and, possibly, additional
commitments from the sponsors.
27.       Ln. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million,
February 6, 1981.
Effective Date: September 25, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on September 25, 1981 and project imple-
mentation is underway.



-41 -                            ANNEX II
Page '1 of 11
28.       Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million,
December 19, 1980.
Effective Date: October 30, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
This loan became effective on October 30, 1981 and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
29.       Ln. No. 1834-CO Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million,
December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1981.
This loan became effective on July 9, 1981, and project implementa-
tion is underway.
30.       Ln. No. 1857-CO Eighth DFC; US$150 million, December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984.
This loan became effective on July 9, 1981 and is proceeding satis-
factorily. As of September 30, 1981 US$8.9 million had been committed to
sub-projects.
31.       Ln. No. 1868-CO Guadalupe IV Hydro Power; US$125 million,
December 19, 1980.
Effective Date: June 29, 1981.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
32.       Ln. No. 1953-CO Playas Hydro Power; US$85 million, November 6, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
33.       Ln. No. 1966-CO Rural Roads; US$33 million, September 24, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1996-CO Irrigation Rehabilitationl US$37 million.
This loan was approved on May 19, 1981 but is not yet signed.
35.       Ln. No. 1999-CO Village Electrification; US$36 million.
This loan was approved on May 21, 1981 but is not yet signed.
36.       Ln. No. 2008-CO Guavio Power; US$359 million.
This loan was approved on May 28, 1981 but is not yet signed.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
UPPER MAGDALENA PILOT WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare projects:         One year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:          INDERENA
(c)  First presentation to Bank:             December, 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:        May, 1980
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:         February, 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:             November, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:          May, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Close Bank supervision will be required to ensure that the many novel
and experimental components of the project are appropriately evaluated
and altered where and as needed and that project experience is disse-
minated within the Bank.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a) By April 30 of each year, INDERENA would send the Bank for
comment an evaluation report of past training and proposed
modifications (paragraph 45);
(b) A program for training necessary staff for the second stage
project would be prepared by December 31, 1982 (paragraph 45);
(c) By June 30, 1982, INDERENA would prepare a program, satisfactory
to the Bank for carrying out the microwatershed research program
(paragraph 49);
(d) A plan for forestry research would be prepared by June 30, 1982
(paragraph 50);
(e) Terms of reference for all policy and economic studies as well
as other studies and training to be carried out under the
project would be satisfactory to the Bank (paragraphs 51 and
55);



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(f) Contracts for consulting services would be awarded on terms
and conditions to firms or individuals whose qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 59);
(g) INDERENA would sign a subsidiary or cooperating agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, with each participating institution
under the project (paragraph 60);
(h) INDERENA would initiate a program for institutional improve-
ment by February 1, 1983 (paragraph 61);
(i) Two Regional Coordinating Committees would be established
with appropriate representation by June 30, 1981 (para-
graph 62);
(j) By November 30 of each year, INDERENA would submit for Bank
approval a detailed program of activities for the following
calendar year (paragraph 63);
(k) INDERENA would provide the Bank semi-annually reports on
project progress (paragraph 63);
(1) Credit requirements of the project would be made available
(paragraph 65);and
(m)  Requirements of the Soil Conservation Fund not met from user
contributions would be met by the Government (paragraph 68);
2.   Special conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) INDERENA has signed and authorized subsidiary agreements with
HIMAT, ICA, SENA and either Caja Agraria or Banco Ganadero
(paragraphs 63 and 73);
(b) Project Director and Research Coordinator have been appointed
(paragraph 64 and 73);
(c) The Soil Conservation Fund has been established (paragraphs 68
and 73);
(d) INDERENA has entered into arrangements with contributors to the
SCF for a minimum of Col$60 million (paragraphs 68 and 73); and
(e) INDERENA would submit farm budgets (paragraphs 44 and 73).
3.   Special conditions of disbursement would be that:
(a) For the advance to the Working Fund, that the Government
had approved its corresponding share (paragraphs 62 and
73; and



-44 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(b) For subsequent replenishments, that agreement on the size
of the fund for the subsequent six-month period had been
reached and that the Government approved its corresponding
share (paragraphs 62 and 73).



C O LOMBIA I
rk                                                 UPPER MAGDALENA WATERSHED
MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
To Tunja
I f-''.    j               r         i   \f  sk       ''f  k           f      C   A   S   A   N   A   P   E
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
b                                                             -                  Ir,;) /|...< 
._ ,W'<Sto'/~~~/  t'J._
__                  ~~~~BOGOTA
-      Manizoles                                            7
r, \             1                        Tl matl            gusagasuga . 
5  j  )    ^   - X    OMBEIMA                         |1                        )      r      T      - 
WAERSHED
A~~~~~~~B
rrenro                                                      'EtEs  nal  (Z!< Pilot Watersheds                     HYDROPOWER PROJECTS
\ |\ Tg O L .                   !         M  A                   Reservoir                   *    Operational .......... 601 MW
o                                   B   )    NHatinal Capital            -    Under Construction       1267 MW.
5ev/Is          I                    El                                      0      Cities                           Unde Study        .        976 MW.
ElI  c-E                                          Selected Roads             [j     Under Survey.... 5,643 MW.
j / tBI 2 jX Rivers          Total Installed Capacity 8,487 MW.
LU       ,               Naigoi..- P                                Basin Boundary
Deport.ent Boundories
uga  ~~~~ :\   4   g    ;t    z (            w ~~~~~~KILOMETERS                   25       5        7         0
MILES0              25            50
\11,\    Z2  S               :           [      LA CEIBIS 
A 1              t2        5           3     WATERSH; D
vPPalmira    ll   oc/   /    lt     rt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m rr,nme has beenV eceard ur re We,Iu Oe,k,efrr reedse,,n lgs,sd d 
al;      .                     /!YA GUARA                ;     e                                     oldn             hB SfStfd trtrVDdVn m   O
WATERSHED r   _                                           ,                         l.
Sontander                                  ETANIA  :IYtDROPOWER PROJECT             'r
RpaPyan   A         ?\&
Tim                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bogota
El /   4      Palito          Florencra                                                  COLOMB
S          4       ~~~~~Agustin           f                                             -    
.ntrn-r,onr[ Boudn-rre
KIQO.ETEIS A   00 000 3 00    EL
MIL0E00                           ,,z,z, 



