Report No. 290a-BT                                                            fILE  Copy
Botswana
Appraisal of the
Francistown Urban Development Project
March 7, 1974
Transportation and Urban Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept respon-
sibility-for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENT EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = South African Rand (R)
US$1.00       = RO.66
US$1 million  = H666,666
R1.00         = US$1.50
Rl million    = US$1,50O,OO0
MEASURES
mm (millimeter) = 0.039 inches
m  (meter)       = 3.28 feet
m2 (square meter)= 1.196 square yards
m3 (cubic meter) = 1.31 cubic yards
ha  (hectar)      = 2.1/3 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
DWF       F    Dry Weather Flow
g.p.c.d   =    Gallons per capita per day
l.p.c.d   =    Liters per capita per day
KVA       =    Kilovolt Amps
mW        =    Megawatts
Mgd       =    Million gallcnF per day
FTC       =    Francistown Town Gouncil
ODA            British Overseas Development Administraticn
SHHA      =    Self-Help Housing Agency
SIDA      =    Swedish International Development Agency
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YhAR
April 1 to March 31



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1   Regional Development Potential in Northern Botswana
ANNEX 2   The Selection of an Urban Form
ANNEX 3   Design Standards and Project Quantities
ANNEX 4   Cost Estimates
ANNEX 5   Plot Allocation Procedure in Sites and Services
ANNEX 6   Monthly Charges
ANNEX 7 Draft Certificate of flights and Building By-Laws
ANNEX 8   Francistown Town Council:
Notes on Future Finances together with Projected
Revenue and Expenditure Statements
ANNEX 9   Francistown Town Council:
Notes on Financial Aspects of Electricity and Water
together with Proposed New Charges
ANNEX 10 Francistown Town Council:
Summarized Balance Sheet at December 31, 1972
ANNEX 11  Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
ANNEX 12 Comparative Estimates of Costs of Developed Plots in Botswana
ANNEX 13  Monitoring Project Progress
CHALiS
IBRD 7822    Francistown Town Council Organization Plan
IB3RD 7905    Construction Schedule Bar Chart
MAPS
IBRD 10511   Republic of Botswana
IBRD 10512   Botswana:  Northern Region
IBRD 10513   Botswana:  Francistown Existing Land Use
IBRD 10514   Botswana:  Francistown Proposed Urban Structure Planning
FIGURE
Fi.ure 1     Botswana:  Francistown Typical Site and Services Layout






BOT S'ANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Page No.
SUMMAff AND CONCLUSION ......           . .       ............... .  . - iii
I.      INTRODUCTION ..................................... 1
II.     BACKGROUND.......  ......o..o***..*.*o.......a*.    2
A.  General ........-.........#.... 2
B.  The Region and Francistown .. ..... o ...o ........            3
C.  Structure of Francistown.......................                3
D.  Genesis of the Project ................ ....o .................    4
III.   THE PROJECT..   6....
A.  Project Description....... ...                                 6
B.  Design Standards..d                   a    r    ds. .    ........*.......  9
C.  Cost Estimates ................................   10
D.  Financingo ....... o..o.... .-...o.....o ... o ....   11
E.  Procurement and Disbursement.*..................    12
F.  Project Execution and Monitoring................    13
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT. ...... .  ... .                       1l
A.  Central Government14............................   lb
B.  The Francistown Town Council..... ..........                14
C.  Land Tenure .................,.... 0...... 0..0.*.. 16
D.  Cost Recovery acnd Pricing..0.0. ".r... 0ing..0   18
V.      JUSTIFICATION..o... o ..............o   24
VI.     RECCUMENDATIONS . ..o....o.............. ..........   26
This rdeport was prepared by Messrs. C.E. Madavo (Economist), E. Greenwood
(Financial Analyst), Ms. D. Haldane (Consultant) and Ms. C. Tager (Researcher
and Editor).






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Francistown, Botswana, cannot-by whatever yardstick--be ranked
a major city. It is nevertheless Botswana's largest town. With about
22,000 inhebitants, it is growing by about 7% a year and is the center for
Northern Botswana which contains half the country's 640,000 people. Owing
to recent mining developments (copper and diamonds, etc.), the region has
become the focus of major export oriented economic activity in the country,
and Francistwon could develop into an important service center. However,
it lacks the infrastructure and serviced industrial, commercial, and residen-
tial land needed for further development.
ii.       Francistown today is more a collection of traditional village
settlements than a town in the conventional sense. Nearly 80% of Francis-
town's inhabitants, mostly black Batswana, live in mud huts almost entirely
without water or sewerage. The other 20%, mostly well off white families,
live on the better-served east side. Suchi wealth as exists is badly dis-
tributed: per capita income of the great majority of its citizens is about
UJS$75 a year and the top 6% of the households have 64% of the income.
iii.      Anticipating Francistown's new role, the Government prepared, with
the hlelp of consultants, a town structure and investment plan. The plan aims,
in the first instance, to relieve the existing backlogs in infrastructure and
serviced land and later to embark on such investments as would be warranted
by development of the town's economic base. From a rather conventional
beginning, the plan has evolved into a flexible, innovative, and yet simple
approach which faces squarely the problem of resource constraints. Government
has incorporated self-help efforts and minimum cost solutions as basic elements
of its investment program. Perhaps most significantly, the program will
benefit virtually the entire range of income groups in the town.
iv.       The Bank Group, through assistance for the Shashe infrastructure
project (Loan 776-BT) and the Francistown-Maun Road (IDA Credit 63), has
participated in strengthening Northern Botswana's regional economy. The
proposed project is a complementary component of this regional effort,
designed to help establish a viable urban center to serve the region and to
provide a means by which the secondary benefits of these projects may reach
the lowest income Batswana.
v.        Development of Francistown will be undertaken in stages.  Sta'e I
covering the period up to 1976 will comprise an Overseas Development Adminis-
tration (ODA) financed project as Phase I and the proposed IDA credit as
Phase II. The ODA project being constructed in 1973 and 1974 includes trunk
sewers for the existing commercial and industrial areas, sewage stabilization
ponds, 316 medium/low-cost lhousing units, 100 site and services plots and
650 traditional housing plots at a total cost of R703,000 (US$1,054,000).



- ii -
vi.       The project to which IDA will provide assistance and whose construc-
tion period will overlap with that of the ODA financed one will provide:
(a) low-cost residential development comprising:
-    1,000 plots for traditional housing (mud and thatch)
serviced with water standpipes for every 80 houses
and individual aqua privies,
-    800 plots for site and services (self-help housing
built of permanent materials) serviced with water
standpipes for every 25 houses and individual aqua
privies,
-    upgrading of existing low-cost housing and squatter
areas affecting about 1,000 households (provision
of water, roads, rubbish collection and security
lighting).
(b) preparation and servicing of 11 ha of land for industrial
development, 5 ha for commercial development and 25 plots
for high-cost housing;
(c)  construction of community facilities including a school,
health clinics, a market, and Francistown Town Council
offices;
(d) construction of primary infrastructure including water,
electricity and roads; and
(e) technical assistance and construction supervision.
vii..     The proposed IDA credit of US$3.0 million would cover 69% of the total
cost of the project of US$4.36 million excluding land. In addition to foreign
costs IDA would finance about 27% of local expenditures. The Government would
finance US$1.36 million, and provide the land which is already in its possession.
viii.     Three of the four contracts under the project, worth about US$3.32
million, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Procurement under the fourth contract
for US$360,000 worth of building materials would be awarded after local ad-
vertising. The delivery of these materials must be closely coordinated with
the rate of construction of self-help houses in order to avoid storing
materials for long periods of time.
ix.       The Borrower will be the Republic of Botswana which will be respons-
ible for constructing all the facilities under the project. The Borrower
has agreed for this purpose to establish a Division within the Ministry



- iii -
responsible for urban development and one staff member in thls Division will
be stationed in Francistown to supervise project execution.  Tae Francistown
Town Council (FTC)  ill operate the project facilities once the'- a:xe con-
structed and will create a Self-Help Housing Agency (SHIIA) to ailocate plots
in site and services schemes and traditional housing areas, marage  '-he
building materials loan scheme, and assist people in actually constiucting
houses.
x.        The project costs will be paid by individual be.nefic-iarIcz.; tihe
Francistown Town Council (FTC) and the Government. The costs of ~crumunity
facilities would be met through Government grant (school, publi. hezath
clinics and tecinical assistance) and through FrancistownT Toxon Council general
revenues (Council Offices, market, main roads). The costs of off-site water
supply and electricity will be recovered through utility tariffs-. Industrial,
commercial, and high-cost plots will be leased by Central Government at
current market prices which are substantially in excess of the Costs of land
and services.  The inhabitants of the residential areas to be devel2?ed under
the project will make monthly payments covering building materials ..oans,
recurrent costs of Town Council services (water, rubbish collection, 2ttc.)
and also contribute to the capital costs of servicing the areas. There will
be a small gap of between Rl and R2 per household per month between the
residents' monthly payments and the costs of servicing the low-income areas
whicli will be met by Government grant.  The grant element is justified by
the considerable public health benefits that piped water and sewerage and
solid waste disposal will bring not only to the large squatter population,
but to the town as a whole.
xi.       The ability of the FTC to meet the debt service and running costs
resulting from the project is apparent even with a modest revenue growth
(excluding utilities) of 10% per annum, and substantial (40%) default rate
in individual payments for aqua privies and building materials loans. If,
as Government predicts, revenues grow by over 17% per annum between 1972
and 1980, and defaults are kept at 10% which the Botswana Housing Corporation
lias experienced in its low-cost housing schemes, there will be prospects of
undertaking substantial improvements in municipal services over and above
the project.
xii.      Subject to para 6.02, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit
of UtS$3.0 million.






BOTSWANA
-PPRAISAL OF THE
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DFEVEL(OPMENT PROJECT
I   I Ni wrRoic'rTON
1.01      TI'h (ove rilmeit of IRotsiwana ilitelds to transform Fr:incistown f'r-om
what i'; tow largel v a shantv settlement iLto a regional growth center for
Northern Botswana.  The project will alleviate existing shortages in infra-
structure and serviced land in accordance with the outline 'Taster Plan
prepared bv H-ugh Wilson and Lewis Womersley, Architects and Town Planners;
in association with Scott, W4ilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners, Engineers (!.K).
The design of the project places strong emphasis on simple, low-cost solu-
tions, as well as self-help.
1.02      Project discussions have been held between the Government andi
IDA beginning in Marclh 1972.  During thesc discussions, tlhe original pla.n
for a project based on a 10-year investment program was phased for more
incremental implementation.  Modifications were also introduced to relate
the program standards to the lunited resources of the town and its citizens.
A program was then formulated covering needs for the period up to 1976,  The
Government approached the British Overseas Development Administration (ODA)
to finance initial parts of the program in order to enable some construction
to begin while technical proposals for the rest of the program were being
finalized.  It is thlis second ?art of the program that the Government is
submitting for IDA financing.
1.(3      This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of
Messrs. C.E. 'ladavo (Chief of Mission, Transportation and Urban Projects),
E. Greenwood (Projects, East Africa) and H.S. Mangat (Consultant). Thce
mission visited Botswana in April 1973; Messrs. Madavo and Mlangat subsequently
visited Botswana for one week [n September 1973. Ms. C. Tager (Transporta-
tion and Urban Projects) and "Is. D. Ilaldane (Consultant) participated in tie
preparation of the report.



II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Roughly 90% of Botswana's 640,000 citizens called the Batswana
live in rural areas and eke out a living as subsistence farmers and cattle
'a'rders. Rural poverty and uneven distribution of both arable land and
cattle are causing many Batswana to move to the towns in search of better
opportunities. Per capita income in rural areas is now estimated to avera,ge
a.bout R40 (US$60), but the vast majority of rural dwellers are, in fact,
even poorer; some 43% are without arable land and 27% have no cattle at all.
manv depenid on money remittances from family members and relatives who have
alreadY moved into Botswana's own small modern sector or are in temporary
employment in the mines and on the farms in South Africa.
2.02      Botswana has only five towms whose combinied population was some
60,000 people at the time of the 1971 census: Lobatse, Gaberone (the capital),
Francistown, ODrapa and Selebi-Pikwe (see Itaps 10511 and 10512). Both Orapa
anil Selebi-Pikwe are near Francistown and have been built since the recent
mineral discoveries in Northern Botswana. Selebi-Pikwe, built a little more
than two vears ago with IBRD assistance (Loan 776-BT), already has some
20,000 people. The Second National Development Plan (1973-1978) forecasts
that thle country's urban population will doubJe between 1971 and 1978 to some
123,000, with most of this growth expected to occur in the northeastern part
of the country, in the general region of Francistown.  The discrepancy
between urhan population growth (11%) and wage employment (7%) }as resulted
in increasing unemployment and the emergence of a large town populati.on whose
sncomes are too low to afford conventional services ordinarily associated
with town development.
3.03      While rural development is giver Priority in the developmaent
strategy for Botswana, the Government is planning an urban development
program of mnodest proportions as a necessary corollary.  The oojective is
to prevent the emergence of problems now plaguing other towns and cities in
Africa whichi have grown without the benefit of effective plans for orderlv
,:row'-h. British tow-n planning consultants have, on behalf c.f tile Government,
prepared long-term physical plans for (aberone, Francistown, and Lobatse,
including proposals for urban investment.  Within these plans, the Government
Is promotintg residential development (houses and services) which is, oli the
r.''i'Jge, at a much lower ccst than in the past so that townspeople can afford
tiCo services and thus avoid large-scale public subsidies and/or squatter
settlemnents.  The proposed development at Francistowm is thc §overnment's
fi rst Onportunity to implement this new approach to urban development with
fts emphasis on simple, low-cost soluttionq.  It is also part of a deliberate
*Iovernmcnt policy to promote the economic development of Northern Botswana,
-area relatively r-ich in natural resources (see Annex I and flap 10512).



-3 -
B. The Region and Francistown
2.04      Francistown is, apart from Selebi-Pikwe, the only major town in
the snarselv populated region of Northiern Botswana, whiichl covers some
100,000 sq mi and is home for about 357,000 people--more tl-An half of
Botswana's ponulation. Located on the single rail line in the country and
equipPed with an airport, Francistown developed as a communications and
comnmercial center and is becoming the staging point for impending deve lopr
ment in the region.
2.05      The majority of Francistown's inhabitants have thu1s far henefirted
little from develonment in the region but this is expected to change.  First,
regional growth will create the need for more goods and services including
government administrative functions, resulting in more jobs in V'rancistown.
Secondly, as more inines go into operation they will inject income into the
region, some of which will be spent in the Francistown commercial and retail
sectors. Alreadv providing some 4,000 jobs, a number of Francistown enter-
prises have nlans to expand if more serviced land can be provided.  New
enterprises including a small-scale industries Project to he financed by
STDA/UNDP, a brewery, and a Coca-Cola bottling plant intend to establish in
the town and would nrovide about 300 additional jobs.
C. Structure of Francistown
2.06      Francistown was for vears a Tati Companv ton-m.  The Tati Company,
owned by Glazer Brothers of South Africa, controlled land, mineral and trading
rights in the Northeast District and FrancistoTn until the mnid-1960s when
Borswana became independent.  Since 1969 two agreements havE' been concludod
between the Company and the Government.  The 1969 agreement resulted in the
transfer of 500 sq mi of rural land in the Northeast and 14,000 ha in
Francistown to the government.  Then in 1972 the Government: acquired most
of the undeveloped land in the 22 sq mi municin?al area of Francistown.
2.07      This historical background of Francistown is reflected in the
highly segregated n)attern of land use in the town (see Mlap 1t0i13). On the
east bank of the Tati -River are the town commercial center and the high-
income residential area where some 300 mostly white families with annual
household incomes of about R10i,000 (ITS$15,000) reside.  Government Camp
between the railwav and the Ntslie River constitutes a second area which is
occupied bv another 300 or so medium-income white households and a few
Batswana civil servants with annual incomes of about R1,600 (US$2,400).
1West of the river are the traditional settlements consisting, mostly of mlud
buts which represent a thtird discrete area where nearlv 4,000 1(enerallv poor
Batswana families live.  Fourth is Dumela--a 120 ha industrial estate some
five miles north of the Present town center oni the onlv lanid availlblc' vllicii



-4-
was not subject to the Tati Company's trading rights covenant. However,
Dumela is on black cotton soil which is exDensive to build on. That, combined
with its distance from the towm center has discouraged industries from
establishinF tlhere; tlhey prefer sites closer to the center of town (see
Annex 3).
".08      Per capita income in the town was estimated at R153 (US$229) in
?7 Q, but this figure is strongly influenced bv the high-income levels of
the non-Batswana population (see following table).  The per capita annual
income of nost Batswana in Francistown is more of the order of R50 (US$75).
Income Distribution in Francistown (1970)
% of                            Composition                 v Distribution of
tlouseholds                                                 estimated cash incomne
About         67        Mostly white expatriates                       64
.tic next    9%        Mostly white expatriates                        14
-he next    M5%        '-ostly Batswana                                22
The next    20%        All Batswana                                    None 1/
Source:   Francistown Planning Proposal, p. 108.
2.09      Almost 80% of the Batswana in thie town live in rondavels of nud
and thatchi with few or no urban services such as water, sanitation, solid
-aste removal and coruunity facilities.  Fven the relatively affluent east
side or the town does not have a waterborne sewerage svstem and this is
becomin. a serious constraint, especially in the existing industrial and
commercial areas.
2.10      The nrovision of jobs and essential services (infrastructure an's
minimum shelter) are subject to severe constraints.  Because the great
majority of the townspeople are poor, and hecause of the general poverty of
the town antd the country as a whole, the infrastructure aind residential
development must be low-cost to be affordable. No less pressing for Francis-
town is the need to integrate the east and west banks illto a single town.
D. Genesis of the Project
1.11      The acquisition of most of the undeveloped land in Francistown by
the Government between 1969 and 1972 afforded an opportunity to plan for tile
I/   These families probably exist on money remitted bv relatives working in
t.lt mizc1s in South Africa or are supported bv relatives who have jobs
in FrinTiistown itself through the network of extenided families.



-5-
orderly and unified development of the town. A long-term strategy for
Francistown's development up to 1995 with an intermediate phase for the early
1980s was then formulated. The existing white township located on the north
side of the Tati River will be integrated and consolidated through extensions
accommodating a mixed-income Batswana population. The reconstituted town
will be more compact with work places, shops, schools, and the railway
station more easily accessible to most of the town's citizens. Development
emphasis initially will center on thie east bank of the Tati, except for
squatter areas located to the west, which will be upgraded. When the popula-
tion of the town reaches the projected 35,000 between 1980 and 1985, further
growth would then be accommodated south of the river (see Map 10513 and
Annex 2).
2.12      In addition to selecting the future urban form of the town, the
Government had to define the investment program including phasing, the
standards to be used, and financing. The Government rejected recommendations
for a large conventional housing program and squatter demolition in favor
of squatter upgrading, serviced traditional housing areas (mud huts) and
site and services schemes which would be more within the means of Francistown
low-income graups.  Minimal design standards allowing for progressive improve-
ment were to be used: communal water points, earth and gravel roads, street
lighting on wooden poles, etc.
2.13      Infrastructure was to be designed so that it could be progressively
extended or upgraded, and was linked to a two-stage investment program.
Stage I was to cover the period up to 1976 and Stage II the period there-
after. In order to initiate construction while the feasibility of the rest
of the program was still under study, Stage I itself was further divided
into two phases. Phase I is being implemented between 1973 and 1974, costs
some R703,000 (US$1,054,000) and is being financed by ODA. The ODA project
will provide sewage ponds and sewers to serve the existing industrial and
commercial areas, 316 conventional housing units for medium/low-income
groups, 100 site and services plots and 650 traditional housing plots.
Phase II (1974-1976) costing some R2.91 (US$4.36) million constitutes the
project for which IDA financing is being requested.



-6-
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Description
Project Components
3.01      The IDA project would provide:
(a)  1,800 low-income residential plots including 800 for site
and services housing built of permanent materials and
1,000 plots for traditional housing of mud and thatch:
-    building materials loans for 800 site and services
plot occupants; and
-    upgrading of existing low-cost housing and squatter
(upgrading) areas affecting over 1,000 households.
(b)  preparation and servicing of 5 ha of commercial and 11 ha
of industrial land, and 25 plots for high-cost housing;
(c)  construction of community facilities including two ward
or neighborhood offices for Town Council staff, a works
depot, a market, two health clinics, a school, and a
block of Town Council offices;
(d) primary infrastructure:
-    installation of borehole pumps, booster pumps and
water mains,
-    laying of branch sewers for the new industrial and
commercial areas,
-    additions to existing road network and foot bridges,
-    improvement of the electricity distribution system;
(e) technical assistance including construction supervision.
(i) Low-Income Residential Development
3.02      Residential Plots:  Residential plots serving two different low-
income groups will be offered in five separate sites. In the area between
the Tati and t7he Ntshe Rivers, some 1,000 plots will be developed where
households earning less than R300 pa. can build traditional houses of mud



-3.-
B. The Region and Francistown
2.04      Francistown is, apart from Selebi-Pikwe, the only major town in
the sparselv populated region of Northern Botswana, whiich covers some
10(,000 sq mi and is home for about 357,000 people--more than half of
Botswana's ponulation. Located on the single rail line. in the country and
equipped with an airport, Francistown developed as a communications and
commercial center and is becoming the staging point for impending develop-
ment in the region.
2.05      The majority of Francistown's inhlabitants have thins far b)enefirted
Little from develoDment in the region bujt this is expected tc) chanige.  First,
regtonal growth will create the need for more goods and services including
government administrative functions, resulting in more jobs in Prancistown.
Secondly, as more inines go into operation they will inject income into the
region, some of which will be spent in the Francistown commercial znd retail
sectors.  Already providing some 4,000 jobs, a number of Francistown enter-
prises have nlans to expand if more serviced land can be provided. New
enterprises including a small-scale industries project to he financed by
SIDA/UNDP, a brewery, and a Coca-Cola bottling plant intend to establish in
the town and would nrovide about 300 additional jobs.
C. Structure of Francistown
2.06      Francistown was for vears a Tati Companv town.  Thie Tati Company,
owned by Glazer Brothers of South Africa, tontrolled land, mineral and trading
rights in the Northeast D)istrict and Francistown until the mi(l-1960s when
Botswana became independent. Since 1969 two agreements have been concJudptl
between the Companv and the Government.  The 1969 agreement resulted in t;he
transfer of 500 sq mi of rural land in the Northeast and 14,000 ha in
Francistown to the government. Then in 1972 the Government acquired most
of the undeveloped land in the 22 sq mi municinal area of Francistown.
2.07      This historical background of Francistown is reflected in the
highly segregated nattern of land use in the town (see MIap lo513).  On the
east bank of the Tati River are the town commercial center anid the hiigh-
income residential area where some 300 mostly white families with annual
household incomes of about R1O,000 (ITS$15,900) reside. Government Camp
between the railway and the Ntslie River constitutes a second area which is
occupied bv another 300 or so medium-income whlite households and a few
Batswana civil servants with annual incomes of about R1,600 (US!2,400).
lWest of the river are the traditional settlements consisting, mostly of m1ud
huts whiclh represent a third discrete area where nearlv 4,000 ()( eneraliLv poor
BatswanA families live. Fourth is Dumela--a 120 ha industrial estate some
five miles north of the present town center on the onlv lanid availaoble wlich



-4-
was not subject to the Tati Company's trading rights covenant. However,
Dumela is on black cotton soil which is exoensive to build on. That, combined
with its distance from the town center has discouraged industries from
establishing thlere; they prefer sites closer to the center of town (see
annex 3).
.03      Per capita income in the town was estimated at R153 (US$229) in
1170, but this figure is strongly influenced bv the high-income levels of
the no-l-Batswana Population (see following table). The per capita annual
income of most Batswana in Francistown is more of the order of R50 (US$75).
Income Distribution in Francistown (1970)
v of                            Composition                 %' Distribution of
rlouseholds                                                 estimated cash invcoTe
Aout          6         Mostly white expatriates                       64
he next      9%       Mostly white expatriates                        14
The next  ~5%           Mostly Batswana                                22
The next    20%        All Batswana                                    None 1/
Source:   Francistown Planning Proposal, p. 108.
2.09      Almost 80%1 of the Batswana in the town live in rondavels of mud
and thatch with few or no urban services such as water, sanitation, solid
.waste removal and cormunitv facilities.  Fven the relativelv affluent east
side or the town does not have a waterborne sewerage system and this is
becoming a serious constraint, especially in the existing industrial and
conmercial areas.
2.10      The -rovision of jobs and essential services (infrastructure anl
minimum shelter) ire subject to severe constraints.  Becat2se the great
majority of the tounspeople are poor, and because of the general poverty of
the tow'n ancl the country as a whole, the infrastructure and residential
develonmenat must be low-cost to be affordable. No less pressing for Francis-
town is the need to integrate thle east and west banks iilto a single town.
D. Genesis of the Project
2.11      The acquisition of most of the undeveloped land in Francistown by
the Coovernment between 1969 and 1972 afforded an opportunity to plan for tthe
I/   These famllies probablv exist on moneY remitted bv relatives working in
Cie mines in South Afri4ca or are supported bv relatives who have jobs
in  -r-l  istown itself through the network of extended families.



-5-
orderly and unified development of the town. A long-term strategy for
Francistown's development up to 1995 with an intermediate phase for the early
1980s was then formulated. The existing white township located on the north
side of the Tati River will be integrated and consolidated through extensions
accommodating a mixed-income Batswana population. The reconstituted town
will be more compact with work places, shops, schools, and the railway
station more easily accessible to most of the town's citizens. Development
emphasis initially will center on the east bank of the Tati, except for
squatter areas located to the west, which will be upgraded. When the popula-
tion of the town reaches the projected 35,000 between 1980 and 1985, further
growth would then be accommodated south of the river (see Map 10513 and
Annex 2).
2.12      In addition to selecting the future urban form of the town, the
Government had to define the investment program including phasing, the
standards to be used, and financing. The Government rejected recommendations
for a large conventional housing program and squatter demolition in favor
of squatter upgrading, serviced traditional housing areas (mud huts) and
site and services schemes which would be more within the means of Francistown
low-income groups. Minimal design standards allowing for progressive improve-
ment were to be used: communal water points, earth and gravel roads, street
lighting on wooden poles, etc.
2.13      Infrastructure was to be designed so that it could be progressively
extended or upgraded, and was linked to a two-stage investment program.
Stage I was to cover the period up to 1976 and Stage II the period there-
after. In order to initiate construction while the feasibility of the rest
of the program was still under study, Stage I itself was further divided
into two phases. Phase I is being implemented between 1973 and 1974, costs
some R703,000 (US$1,054,000) and is being financed by ODA. The ODA project
will provide sewage ponds and sewers to serve the existing industrial and
commercial areas, 316 conventional housing units for medium/low-income
groups, 100 site and services plots and 650 traditional housing plots.
Phase II (1974-1976) costing some R2.91 (US$4.36) million constitutes the
project for which IDA financing is being requested.



-6-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
Project Components
3.01      The IDA project would provide:
(a)  1,800 low-income residential plots including 800 for site
and services housing built of permanent materials and
1,000 plots for traditional housing of mud and thatch:
-    building materials loans for 800 site and services
plot occupants; and
-    upgrading of existing low-cost housing and squatter
(upgrading) areas affecting over 1,000 households.
(b)  preparation and servicing of 5 ha of commercial and 11 ha
of industrial land, and 25 plots for high-cost housing;
(c)  construction of community facilities including two ward
or neighborhood offices for Town Council staff, a works
depot, a market, two health clinics, a school, and a
block of Town Council offices;
(d) primary infrastructure:
-    installation of borehole pumps, booster pumps and
water mains,
-    laying of branch sewers for the new industrial and
commercial areas,
-    additions to existing road network and foot bridges,
-    improvement of the electricity distribution system;
(e) technical assistance including construction supervision.
(i) Low-Income Residential Development
3.02      Residential Plots:  Residential plots serving two different low-
income groups will be offered in five separate sites. In the area between
the Tati and the Ntshe Rivers, some 1,000 plots will be developed where
households earning less than R300 P.a. can build traditional houses of mud



-7-
and thatch. About 800 site and services plots will be prepared on the east
bank of the Tati (see Map 10514, Areas L, V, S, W). Occupants of these
plots will be required to build simple houses of more permanent naterials
than mud and tlhatch. The target income group will range from R300 to R1,000
per household per annum. Tenure terms under each category are described in
para. 4.14.
3.03      Building M1aterials:  The project will include R240,000 for the
financing of building materials for self-help housing. The materials will
consist of bricks, cement, sand, metal doors, windows, glasswork, timber
and roofing sheets, and paint. The materials will be purchased at intervals
and stored by the Town Council at their works depot. The Self-llelp hlousing
Agency will operate the material stores. Each site and services plot
occupant will be eligible to receive loans from FTC (8% for 15 years) for
about R300 worth of building materials, adequate for a simple two-room house.
Occupants will also be permitted to purchase materials for cash.
3.04      Upgrading:  The project will recognize and preserve the investment
made by residents of squatter and low-incomie areas in their own hiousing and
communities bv upgrading Areas X and Y on the west bank (see Map 10514) to
roughly the same level of services as the new site and services area.
Security of tenure will be protected; water standpipes will be increased or
nrovided where necessary; about 865 aqua privies will be supplied; earth
roads and drainage will be constructed; and street lighting installed. Over
1,000 households will benefit from the upgrading program.
(ii) Industrial and Commercial Areas and High-Cost Plots
3.05      The areas to be developed for industrial and commercial use are
adjacent to the central core of the town (see Map 10514). In both areas
the land will be levelled and serviced with bitumenized roads and drainage,
individual sewer and water connections, electricity distribution and street
lighting.
3.06      The development of 25 higlh-cost plots (waterborne sanitation and
individual Twater connections) in Area A (Map 10514) will help relieve the
present slhortage of suitable residential land for high level government
employees and prospective staff for manufacturing enterprises thiat are
expected to locate in Francistown once serviced industrial land becomes
available.
(iii) Community Facilities
3.07      About half of the funds provided for community facilities are for
a primary schiool and a two-story block of Town Council offices. The rest
of the facilities include two Ward Offices for Council staff and two Public
Health clinics, a Council works depot which is to be constructed in the
industrial area, a market, and a machine for making concrete blocks which
will be used in constructing self-help housing.



-8-
(iv) Primary Infrastructure
3.08      Water Supply:  Boreholes with a maximum output of 500,000 gal/d
supply Francistown's water needs.  Average daily water consumption is about
330,000 gpd. The Francistown Master Plan studies project that the peak
demand for water would rise to over a million gallons per day by the early
1980s when the town's population will be about 35,000. The Government is
financing, outside the project, the sinking of another six boreholes includ-
ing cor  c; ng mains to the town's system in the area just north of Monarch
where, according to a geophysical report by Australian Groundwater Consultants
Pty Limited, there are good prospects for pumping enough water to meet
Francistown's requirements. Borehole drilling is underway and preliminary
results show good yields.
3.09      The IDA credit will finance a system of trunk and subsidiary water
ma'- (for quantities see Annex 4) to bring water to low-income areas not
currently served as well as to supply the new industrial, commercial and
residential areas.  Individual connections will be provided for bulk users
and high-income residential areas. Standpipes will serve the site and
services and traditional housing and upgraded areas. For design standards
see Annex 3.
3.10      Sewerage:  Only the commercial and high-income residential areas
have good sanitation, being served in the main by septic and conservancy
tanks which have to be emptied regularly. The low-income squatter areas are
by and large without any sanitary facilities. The IDA project will finance
sewer mains to serve the new industrial and commercial areas including a
force main and pumping station.  :En addition, some 2,700 aqua privies will
be provided for low-income residents of site and services areas, traditional
housing and squatter areas to be upgraded. For designi standards see Annex 3.
3.11      Roads and Bridges:  Francistown has only 1,000 motor vehicles, so
the roads and bridges to be provided in this project emphasize the efficient
linking of residential areas and work places wtith facilities geared more to
bicycle and pedestrian movement than to cars. The project will provide
1,000 m of bitumenized and 4,900 m of gravel roads withi good drainage to
accommodate pedestrian needs. In addition, provision will be made for foot
brid4es on the existing Maun Road bridge, between the traditional hwousing
area and Area S, and a bridge from Area Y to the traditional area (see Map
10514 and Annex 3).
3.12      Electricity:  Francistown provides its own power with five diesel
generators. Installed capacity is 800 KW and firm capacity is about 600 KW.
Consumption demand is 500 KW and is essentially limited to high-income
residential, commercial and industrial areas. To meet future demand the
town now plans to purchase its bulk power from the Shashe Complex (IBRD Loan
776-BT) with the existing power station plant held in reserve as standby in
the event of a oewer fa4lure.  Provision was made in the Shashe Project for
providing a bt-lk supply.  nhe carrying out of the extension of the Shashe
supplv to 7ranc'.stcuwn is underway and should be cornmeted ir Ar4.'. 1974,  The



-9-
project will provide for the laying and reconstruction of distribution lines
in the high-income residential, commercial and industrial areas, and provision
of street lighting in the low-income areas.
(v)  Technical Assistance
3.13      The project provides for the setting up of a Self-Help Housing
Agency (SHHA) in the Francistown Town Council. The Unit will advise house-
holds on self-help housing construction and run the building materials stores.
The Unit will require funding in the amount of R209,000 over a three-year
period, including an allowance of R36,000 which would be used for topping up
the salaries of two key staff, namely the Project Coordinator and possibly
the low-cost housing expert (para. 4.03), and R30,000 for a study of water
tariffs (para. 4.30).
B. Design Standards
(i) Residential Areas
3.14      The following service levels are planned for the residential comn-
ponent of the project including the low-income/squatter areas to be upgraded:
Upgraded         Site and        Traditional       High-Cost
Squatter Areas  Services Plots        Plots /1          Plots
Plot Size
(m2)                                375              375            1,400
(1/3 acre)
Water         1 standpipe for  1 standpipe for  1 standnipe for  Individual
every 25 house-  every 25 house-  every 80 house-  connection
holds             holds             holds
Sewerage     Aqua privy        Aqua privy        Aqua privy         Waterborne
sanitation
Electricity  Security          Security           Security          Individual
lighting          lighting          lighting          connection
Solid Waste  Periodic          Periodic          Periodic           Periodic
Disposal     Collection         Collection        collection        collection
Circulation  Gravel access    Gravel access    Earth access         Gravel access
roads, earth-    roads, earth-    roads, earth-    and internal
formed internal  formed internal  formed internal  roads
roads             roads             roads
1/   The lower standard of servicing is used in order to minimize Government
subsidies as these plots are intended for lowest income households includ-
ing those who have no money income at all.



- 10 -
The above service levels represent an attempt to match the very limited
resources of the prospective users while still providing services that meet
minimal public health requirements such as clean water and some form of
sewage disposal.  Aqua privies are recommended because rocky soil conditions
preclude the use of pit latrines.  Aqua privies, however, are still at least,
50% cheaper than waterborne sanitation based on communal toilets (see Annex
12), which have proven unworkable and quite unpopular in certain other
African countries. Similarlyb the use of water standpipes at the service
level of one standpipe for every 25 households results in water costs which
are half of those for individual connections (see Annex 12).
3.15      Land utilization parameters such as plot size, plot coverage, road
reserve and open space are also geared to minimizing the cost of servicing
land while taking into account local cultural and social life styles. Thus,
the plot size which appears large is in keeping with the life style of most
Botswana low-income people, a significant number of whom cook and eat out-
side, and also use the space for general living purposes. However, the legal
and institutional arrangements governing land use in site and services
schemes allow more intensive land use through subdivision. A typical site
and services layout is shown in the last chart in the Annex section.
(ii) Community Facilities and Primary Infrastructure
3.16      The designs for community facilities are simple, and emphasize the
use of readily available local materials. The design criteria used for
water consumption (Annex 3) are based on consumption data in Gaberone and
Lobatse. The design standards for roads are shown in Annex 3.
C. Cost Estimates
3.17      Project costs, excluding land which is Government owned, are
estimated at R2.91 (US$4.36) million, of which R1.66 (1'SS2.49) million or
57% is foreign exchange. Estimates are at September 1973 prices based on
preliminary engineering. Physical contingencies amounting to 10% and price
escrlation contingencies amounting to 15% over the 18-month construction
period have been allowed for. An additional 5% has been added to the
September 1973 estimates to bring them to the expected bidding date of
March 1974. About R149,000 is included for project supervision by the
engineering consultants.  The cost estimates are summarized below and given
in detail in Annex 4.



Summary of Cost Estimates Li
Local     Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign  Total
-----(in R'000)------    -----(in US$'000)------
A. Low-income residen-
tial development      351.9    414.7    766.6         517.8    622.1  1,149.9
B. Industrial and com-
mercial areas and
high-cost plots        72.0      96.8    168.8        108.0    145.2    253.2
C.  Community Facilities  247.9    185.2    433.1          371.8    277.8    649.6
D. Primary
Infrastructure        206.9    348.6    555.5         310.4    522.9    833.3
E. Technical Assistance
and Engineering
Supervision            89.7    269.2    359.0         134.6    403.9    538.5
F. Contingencies:
Physical               82.9      87.5    170.4        124.4    131.2    255.6
Price                 193.7    262.9    456.6         290.5    394.4    684.9
TOTAL                1,245.0  1,665.0  2,910.0    1,867.5  2,497.5  4,365.0
/1   Estimates exclude land, the imputed financial value of which is about
R12,000.
D. Financing
3.18      The proposed IDA credit of US$3.0 million would cover about 69% of the
total costs of the project of US$4.36 million excluding land. In addition to
foreign costs IDA would finance about 27% of local expenditures. The Govern-
ment would contribute US$1.36 million, and the land to be used for the project.
3.19      The costs attributable to the servicing of the 5 ha of commercial
land and the 25 high-cost residential plots, while part of the project, would
not be financed by IDA. The two items costing some R127,400 (US$191,100)
will be financed exclusively from the government's contribution because they
will be used in part to compensate the Tati Company (see para. 2.06) for land
acquired by the Government from the company in 1972. Under an agreement
entered into by the Company and the Government in 1972, well before the IDA
project was mooted, the Tati Company gave up virtually all the undeveloped



- 12 -
land in Francismton to the Government. In return, the Government agreed to
give tle company 2.8 ha of serviced commercial land and 20 plots of serviced
high-cost residential plots under the development to be undertaken in
Francistown up to 1976 and 10% of all high-cost plots and commercial land
to be developed thereafter on all land formerly held by the Company.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.20      The detailed designs, specifications and bidding documents are
being prepared by the Consulting Engineers who would also supervise tendering
and awarding of contracts, and construction. Contracts will be grouped in
sur' i way that a contractor can bid for each group separately or for the
toLal package. The groupings would be as follows:
(a)  civil engineering work:  sewerage and aqua privies, roads and
bridges, water supply, and surface drainage;
(b)  electrical works:  electrical distribution lines, street
lighting and all other electrical wiring of facilities
included in the project;
(c)  buildings, i.e., community facilities; and
(d)  building materials.
3.21      The value of contracts (a) through (c) is estimated at about
R2.21 (US$3.3) million and will be awarded in accordance with IDA Guidelines
for International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
3.22      The Government indicated that it did not wish to take advantage
of local Dreference for both suppliers and contractors.
3.23      Building materials included in this project for self-help housing
are valued at about R240,000 (US$360,000), of which over 50% is for bricks,
ceinrTt and sand (see para. 3.03).  The delivery rate of these materials must
be closely coordinated with the rate of construction of self-help houses in
order to avoid storing materials for long periods of time with the resultant
cost and problems of pilferage. It is therefore proposed to procure these
materials from local sources after competitive bidding.
Disbursement
3.24      Disbursement of funds from the credit would be on the following
basis:  (a) 71% of total expenditures for civ-l works excluding those for
commercial and high-cost residential development and borehole waterpipe;



- 13 -
(b) 71% of total expenditures for building materials; (c) 100% of foreign
or 71% of local expenditures for consultant services and technical assistance
to the Borrower; and (d) 100% of foreign or 71% of local expenditures for
technical assistance to FTC and SHHA including salaries and, in the case
of SHHA, office equipment and operating expenditures. Disbursement against
(a), (b) and (c) would be fully documented; disbursement against (d) would
be made against certificates of expenditure endorsed by the FTC, the documenta-
tion for which would not be submitted for review but is retained by the
Borrower aad available for inspection by the Association during the course
of supervi3ion. The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in Annex 11.
Any funds remaining in the credit account upon completion of the project
would be used for the preparation of additional traditional housing plots
in Francistown.
F. Project Execution and Monitoring
Construction Schedule
3.25      The civil works aspects of the project will  e executed over 18
months. Although all the site and services plots will be laid out and
allocated by the end of 1975, the self-help housing program is expected to
take up to 1978 and therefore the building materials loan scheme will extend
to the end of 1977. The detailed construction schedule is shown in Chart
7905 in the Annexes.
Monitoring
3.26      A simple monitoring exercise will be mounted, designed to assess
progress and identify problems during project implementation. It is proposed
that the Project Coordinator submit a quarterly review of statistical
progress, specific problems arising, and the steps being taken to resolve
them. After the project construction period, the Self-Help lIousing Agency
will assume the responsibility for longer-term monitoring and evaluation
of the self-help housing development component of the project.



- 14 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMEiNT
A. Central Government
4.01      The Borrower would be the Republic of Botswana which will contract
for construction of all the facilities under the project. Upon completion,
the facilities will be turned over to the Francistown Town Council (FTC)
to operate and to maintain.
4.02      Specifically, the Central Government would be responsible for:
-    constructing primary infrastructure and community facilities;
-    preparing and servicing land for industrial, commercial and
residential use including squatter upgrading; and
-    procuring building materials for self-help housing.
4.03      The Government is creating a Division in the Ministry responsible
for Urban Development which together with the town councils, will be respons-
ible for planning and implementing projects in the towns. The Division will
include an urban engineer, economist/planner, low-cost housing expert, and
an urban development coordinator. The Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA) is providing the Division with an expert on low-cost/self-help
housing. Although recruitment has been difficult, the position is expected
to be filled at the end of March 1974. The Government will provide the
remaining staff who are likely to be expatriates initially, but these positions
will be localized in due course by people that the Governmfnt has already in
training at Universities overseas. With the recruitment of competent staff
the proposed Division and staffing should provide adequate capability for
Botswana's modest urban projects program.
4.04      The Division's Urban Development Coordinator will be stationed in
Francistown during project construction. He will oversee both the Consultants
and the Contractors. The Government has appointed the former Town Clerk of
Francistown--a capable expatriate--to this position.
B. The Francistown Town Council (FTC)
4.05      FTC operates under tight Central Government control.  Although
a majority of councillors are elected, the remainder are appointed by the
Ministry of Local Government. Town Council regulations govern the duties
of councils, the valuation and rating of property, accounts and audits, as
well as borrowing power. The Ministry of Local Government has to approve



- 15 -
council annual expenditures which are always limited to available revenues.
Finally, FTC's annual accounts have to be audited by a Government approved
auditor. This control by the Government over council affairs is intended
to provide safeguards against imprudent policies and practices including
financial mismanagement. It has been agreed that until 1980 FTC accounts
will continue to be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Association and that the Council's unaudited quarterly financial statements
will be forwarded to IDA as soon as they are available, to be followed by
the audited accounts 12 months after the end of each financial year. FTC
will be asked to provide specific information on the record of collections
for aqua prives and building materials loans.
4.06      With respect to the implementation of the project, FTC will be
responsible for:
-    allocating site and services plots;
-    managing the building materials loans, altlhough
aetual procurement will be done by the Government;
-    providing technical assistance to plot holders in
self-help housing construction.
The passage of an FTC resolution and exchange of letters between FTC and
the Borrower accepting the above responsibilities will be made condition of
effectiveness.
4.07      To perform the above functions, the Council is to create a special
unit called the Self-Help Housing Agency (SHHA). To be headed by a Director
funded by SIDA, the Agency will be staffed with six building artisans headed
by a construction foreman, a foreman for the block-making unit and three
laborers, eight community development workers and other administrative staff.
The Government is recruiting two building trainers for the Agency from over-
seas volunteer agencies such as the German Volunteers or the American Peace
Corps. The mission believes that the SHHA, with the proposed staffing should
be able to carry out its intended functions. However, in case recruitment
of German or American volunteers proves difficult, R40,000 is included in
the project to enable SHHA to recruit such personnel from elsewhere.
4.08      In addition, the Council will create a Site and Services Manas,ement
Board consisting of Central Government representatives including the Urban
Development Coordinator and FTC Councillors and staff including the Director
of the SHITA. The Board will approve plot allocations and transfers. It will
also propose policy guidelines for SHHA operations, which like other Town
Council policy decisions will be subject to approval by the Ministry of Local
Government.
Plot Allocation and Collection of Monthly Payments
4.09      The key features of the proposed allocation system for both
traditional and site and services plots are: the plots will be advertised
in the Town Council and Ward Offices; the SHHA will screen the applicants



- 16 -
through interviews to ascertain that they meet eligibility and priority
criteria (Annex 5). The SHHA list of candidates for plot occupation will
then be forwarded to the Management Board for approval. The Board will meet
at least once a month during the height of project activity.
4.10      The collection of monthly payments (for amounts, etc., see para.
4.22) will be done in two ways. For those heads of households in wage
employment deductions will be made at the source. For those households who
are self-employed, the Council will set up Ward Offices in each site and
services and traditional housing area to which will be attached a revenue
collector. Each Ward Office will register persons liable for local Government
tax payments at their residential site, cross-referencing such persons with
Pay-As-You-Earn records in the Council headquarters, and thus separating the
self-employed who will be visited monthly by the revenue collector. The
collection system will thus be personalized to an extent which should improve
collection rates. The costs of collection will remain reasonable as the
personnel required for this can be recruited from among school leavers.
The_Key Council Officers and the Project
4.11      Four Town Council Officers will play a key role with respect to
the Council's responsiblities under this project. They are the Town Clerk,
the Engineer, the Treasurer and the Director of the SHHA. The former
District Commissioner for Northeast District has been recently appointed
Town Clerk. The Engineer has worked for the Council for many years. The
Borrower has just appointed an expatriate with considerable experience in
other African cities as FTC Treasurer, a position involving the supervision
of revenue collection and maintenance of records as well as advising on
financial planning. It has been agreed that until December 1978, the
Borrower shall consult the Association prior to the appointments or changes
in the appointments of the SEHA Director, the Engineer, and Treasurer.
C. Land Tenure
4.12      Two types of land tenure are proposed for the project:  the one
will apply to high-cost housing plots, industrial and commercial land and
the other to site and services, upgraded souatter areas and traditional
lioubing (mud hut) areas.  Within the first group, it is proposed that high-
cost plot leases of 99 years be given and that industrial and commercial
land be let for a fixed term period of 50 years.
4.13      In the site and services, upgraded squatter and traditional
housing areas each occupant will be given a Certificate of Rights entitling
him to use the land for residential purposes for an indefinite period but
not to ownership (Annex 7). The Certificate concept has been evolved in
order to avoid the expensive and time-consuming survey and registration



- 17 -
required in higher income housing, and moreover, the concept resembles the
traditional land tenure familiar to most of the new townspeople. Building
standards in these areas will be governed by simple by-laws. The Certificate
of Rights and the building by-laws to be used are being finalized (preliminary
drafts are given in Annex 7). It was agreed that FTC would use a certificate
acceptable to the Association and issue building by-laws acceptable to IDA
no later than September 30, 1974.



- 18 -
D.  Cost Recovery and Pricing
4.14      It is envisaged that the recovery of project costs will be from
the sources indicated below:
Capital
Facility                  Cost 1/   Z        Recovery Source
A. Low-Income Residential
Development                   976,580   34
800 sites and services olots:
Aqua privies                  124,800    5  Individual Beneficiaries
On-site development           117,780    4  Central Government
Building materials            240,000    8  Individual Beneficiaries
1,000 traditional housing plots:
Aqua privies                  156,000    5  Central Government
on-site development            90,870    3  Central Government
Upgrading existing squatter
areas affecting 1,000
households:
Aqua privies                  134,940    5  Individual Beneficiaries
On-site development           112,190    4  Town Council 21
B. Industrial, Commercial and
Hligh-Cost Housing Plots      219,440    7-
16 ha commercial and
industrial land              176,540    6  Individual Beneficiaries
25 high-cost plots             42,900    1  Individual Beneficiaries
C.  Comaunity Facilities             5I030   20
School and clinics             175,240    6  Central Government
Council and Ward Offices      236,210    8  Town Council
Cour'ciI Works Depot and
'-farket                     125,580    5  Town Council
Block-making Machine           2A,C00        Individual Beneficiaries
D.  Trimarv Tnfrastructure           72,  0   25
'ater                         24 ,L,0    9  Individual Beneficiaries 3'
Electricity                    44,200    1  Individual Beneficiaries
Sewerage                       73,840    3  Individual Beneficiaries
RoaC s                        339,30(   12  Town Council
E. Technical Assistance and
Engineerinfr                  426,800   14  Central Goverment
1/   Includ4ng 307 contingencies excent for ,tems covered in para. 3.23.
2/   Ce_r.  _ vrn?e?t fmancing is generally ' .Imlted to new development areas,
lea.- r. ~~er - Tfnct n' ex 'c s ~      ½settlenenrs +o locat a 'thoriries
3/   Reccv-?-,:,  -/v!wt  ,°.('          tSeaJ.'v ~2-''



- 19 -
Primary Infrastructure, Community Facilities and Technical Assistance
4.15      For purposes of analyzing cost recovery, the Francistown project
can be divided into three categories. First, about 59% of the cost is
accounted for by community facilities, primary infrastructure and technical
assistance. The apportionment of the recovery of these costs is straight-
forward and follows the usual practice in town development projects in
Botswana (Gaberone, Selebe-Pikwe). Schools, health clinics and technical
assistance are considered to benefit the nation as a whole and are charge-
able to Central Government. Local authorities assume the costs of the com-
munity facilities with more localized impact (i.e., markets, Council and
Ward Offices) and those aspects of primary infrastructure (i.e., main roads
and trunk sewers) which benefit the community as a whole and pay for them
through general revenues, especially property taxes. Water and electricity
costs are recovered from beneficiaries through utility operations which, in
the case of Francistown, are run by the Town Council.
Commercial Industrial, and HIigh-Cost Housing Plots
4.16      The second category comprises serviced land for commerce, industry
and high-cost housing.  The Central Government will lease these plots at
current market prices. Development costs are estimated at about R6,500 per
ha in the industrial area. R14,500 per ha in the commercial area, and R1,320
per plot for high-cost housing. It is planned to charge R12,000 per ha for
industrial land, R20,000 per ha for commercial land and R2,000 per plot for
high-cost housing plots. These prices are based on experience in Selebi-
Pikwe, Gaberone and Francistown. The surplus generated on the leasing of
industrial and commercial land of R90,500 more than covers the R71,000 costs
for the off-site sewerage main included in the project primarily for the
use of these areas and the R960 for land.
Low-Income Residential Development
4.17      The third category of costs relates to the development of low-income
residential areas, namely site and services plus traditional housing lots,
and squatter improvement. The monthly costs, monthly household payments and
target income groups for each of the areas are given in the table on the
next Dage.
4.18      Government considers it essential to provide the largely African
population now squatting under conditions of extreme squalor with minimally
serviced residential areas consistent with public health standards. The
alternative is continued extension of squatter areas and deterioration of
the Public health environment in the town.  The very low per plot costs shown
in the following table illustrate the Government's attempt to keep services
to those wqhich are essential.



lou s e1ioi-d Monthly Repayments
(in Rand)
Tota'l Cost and PaMent                 Monthly Payrment as a Percentage of Income
Target Income    % of Target
Payment per       Target  Group broken         Group in       Total Monthly
Cost/Plot/   iiousehiold/      Income       into              each           Payment/%
Monith  /1      Monlth         Group   two categories    Category         of Cash Income
(R)             (R)          R/Month    R per month
00 Sites and Services
On-Site Development            0.99              -                        25 - 54             82               14
B-3ildirig iaterials           2.92             2.92         25 - 83
P.r.i.vy                       1.52             1.40 /2                   55 - 83             18                8
Recurrent Services            1.40 /3          1.40
TOTAL            6.83            5.72                                         100
1)000 Traditional Plots
Orn-Si Le Development           .61              -
Buildiing 14aterials            -                -                         1 - 12             44               22
Privy                          1.52              -           Under 25
Recurrent Services             1.40             1 .40                     13 - 25             56                 8
TOTAL            3.53             1.40                                         100
1_000  pgraded Households
On-Site Development              .75             -
Building Laterials              -                -            1 - 55      .1 - 25             45               23 /4
Privy                          1.52             1.40 /2      and over    25 - 55
Rec-urrent Services            1.40             1.40                      and over            40                 7
TOTAL            3.67            2.80                                           85
/1  Termas assumed are as follows:   On-Site Development (water, roads, drainage, street lighting) - 7> and 30 years
Building materials - 8% and 15 years
Privy                 -  8% and 15 years
2?  After a downpayment of Rt2.    /14 Only those $th iccons8 of lU2 oa  afford the pVemnts.
hrccrrrct co.LS incl'de *.-'ter, garbage coliction, public conveniences, road maintenance, street lights and adirinistration.
't  ap    orment of rec,  nret coo:- for l         er oporaticr,s -cng inco-ie groups contain-i a cross-siibsid7 from  the upper to
lc lower incorlic groups (k co ALU   0    T'ie ciarge for recurru,Lt co os 1 xl low-in`or f   re odent .I reas is in lieu of rotes.



- 21 -
4.19      The monthly charges under each of the three categories of develop-
ment are indended to make all beneficiaries, including the poorest of them,
pay at least the recurrent costs of Town Council services and to contribute
to the capital costs of development in accordance with their ability to pay.
The practical determination of "ability to pay" in the context of a mobile and
casually employed low-income population such as that in Francistown is neces-
sarily rough; in this case Government would like to keep monthly payments of
the majority of project beneficiareis at around 20% income. No differential
pricing within each category site and services, traditional plots, etc., is
contemplated because of the difficulties of administering such an approach.
4.20      Residents of squatter areas to be upgraded will spend up to 23% of
their incomes on monthly payments; those of traditional housing areas up to
22%, and those of sites and services schemes up to 14%.
4.21      The charges for site and services are meant to ensure not only a
meaningful contribution to development costs by residents, but also to encourage
as many households as possible to move into residential areas built of perman-
ent materials. The Government is anxious to provide opportunities for the
average Batswana, through self-help, to build neighborhoods which further non-
racial development in Francistown. The essential services of water and aqua
privies being provided in the traditional housing areas on a grant basis for
health reasons will make these areas attractive to many in the R300-500 p.a.
income bracket now designated for site and services plots. Enforcement of
the R300 household income ceilings in a context where many applicants are
self-employed is difficult, if not impossible. It is therefore hoped that by
making site and services payments a lower proportion (though higher in
absolute terms) of target monthly income than in the other developments, those
families able to live in site and services will be attracted there. The
lower proportion of monthly income spent on payments should also encourage
more rapid consolidation.
Francistown Town Council Finances
4.22      As indicated in para. 4.14 Francistown will pay for R911,000 of
project costs through general revenues. Another R309,000 will be recovered
through the town's water and electricity operations, and R500,000 from individ-
ual payments for aqua privies and building materials to be collected by FTC.
The Government will treat these costs as a loan to FTC. It'was agreed that
Ithe costs for utilities will be recovered over 25 years at 8%, those for aqua
privies and building materials will be recovered over 15 years at 7%, and the
funds for community facilities and roads will be passed on to Francistown at
1% and 25 years.
4.23      Although the Francistown project, as a regional project, will bene-
fit a much wider area than Francistown itself, Government plans to make the
town and its habitants bear about 70% of the costs of the project. The exam-
ination of FTC finances in the following sections shows that the town and its
people can indeed meet the debt service and running costs resulting from the
project comfortably.



- 22 -
The risk of default in the collection for aqua privies and building materials
loans from the residents of the low-income residential development component
of the project is, however, high and FTC is taking steps (para. 4.10) to
ensure successful collection of payments. A very simple risk analysis table
in Annex 8, page 4 shows that even if those defaults are 40% and other major
sources of FTC revenues yield 20% less than projected, the Council should
still be able to meet its financial obligations.
Francistown's Financial Position and Past Operations
4.24      FTC's financial statements for 1972 consisting of revenue and ex-
penditure statements and balance sheets, together with notes which include
explanations of some of the special features of municipal accounts, are showt
in summary form in Annex 10. Revenues for the year amounted to R218,000 and
expenditures R192,000, giving a surplus of R32,000, after taking into account
a small grant of R6,000. In addition to recurrent expenditures, the expendi-
ture of R192,000 includes debt service payments (principal and interest),
capital expenditures and transfers to renewal funds for various capital
expenditures. In FY72, FTC's principal sources of revenue were local govern-
ment income tax (42%) and surplus on utility operations (19%), while the main
expenditures were on education (49%) and sanitation, roads and other services
(30%). At the end of 1972, FTC had adequate cash to meet its obligations.
Collections for Aqua Privies and Building Materials
4.25      Separate accounts fill be extablished into which collections from
individuals and debt service payments to Government relating to the aqua
privies and buildings materials aspects of the project will flow. The small
operating expenses relating to these activities will be met from FTC's general
revenues. The charges for aqua privies and building materials (see page 20)
are set at a level which enables FTC to meet its related debt service obliga-
tions to Government after allowing for a 10% default in collection. About
10% default is understood to be close to the experience of Botswana Housing
Corporation in its low-cost housing and might be achieved if the Council, as
indended, emphasizes personal contact between revenue collectors and the people
at the ward or neighborhood level. Nevertheless, it should be recognized
that the risk of default involved in collecting small monthly charges from a
largely poor population is high the world over.
Water and Electricity
4.26      Taken together, water and electricity operations in Francistown
have produced a cash surplus in the past despite cash deficiencies in water
operations. The Council's annual debt service obligation to Government for
the water and electricity components of the project beginning in FY77 is
estimated to be small (about R29,000 per annum) and should not add signifi-
cantly to utility cash outlays at that time.



- 23 -
4.27      Changes have been made in the water tariffs to increase revenues to
a level which will cover operating and capital charges and also contribute
towards future capital expenditures. The new tariff (Annex 9) now in effect
changed the past flat rate of RO.40 (US$0.57) per thousand gallons to an
increasing block tariff. These charges are supposed to discourage excessive
water consumption especially in the higher income areas, although they probably
will not do so to the same extent that charges based on the Gaberone structure
(Annex 9) would.
4.28      Although the new water charges represent a great improvement over
the past, their long-run impact has not been adequately analyzed. Furthermore,
a significant proportion of new consumers who will be connected to the town's
water system as a result of this project will be served by standpipes. The
monthly charge of RO.55 per household that will be levied from these stand-
pipe consumers is reportedly subsidized (Annex 6). The extent of this sub-
sidy is not accurately known. To provide information on all these points
it has been agreed that FTC will carry out a water tariff study in accordance
with terms of reference and by personnel acceptable to the Association and that
the study should be completed no later than June 30, 1975. Funds amounting.
to R20,000 have been included in the project for this purpose.
4.29      Surpluses on electricity operations averaging about R55,000 per
annum have contributed significantly to FTC's revenues in recent years.
Present electricity charges are much higher than those in Gaberone (Annex 9).
A study leading to a new tariff is planned. However since the electricity
account has been an important part of FTC revenues, changes should be made
only after careful consideration of their effect on Council finances. It has
been agreed that (a) changes in water and electricity tariffs will be made
only after such consideration and also after taking into account IDA comments
on the proposed changes; and (b) FTC will operate its power and water opera-
tions in accordance with sound utility practice including metering of consump-
tion wherever feasible.
4.30      Apart from the project, no major capital additions are planned for
water and electricity during the next few years.
FTC's General Revenues and Expenses
4.31      This seccion of the report discusses FTC's revenues and expenses
during the coming years and excludes utility operations and collections for
aqua privies and building materials loans which are discussed separately in
para 4.25 to 4.30. FTC's actual and projected revenue statements from FY70
to FY80, together with notes and assumptions are given in Annex 8. A large
increase in revenue if projected during this period as indicated in the fol-
lowing table:



- 24 -
FTC Revenue Projections
Actual            Projected
1972      1974      1977      1980
--- (in R'0nO) ----------
Property rates                                    19         80       173       262
Local Government itcome tax                       91        103       138       184
Standing charges in site and services
and  -aditional housing areas                      -         21        35        45
Other                                             7n         98       118       166
TOTAL                                 180        302        469      657
Of the expected increase in revenues of R289,000 between 1972 and 1977, it
estimated that by FY77, when fTC's debt service to Government first becomes
effective, about 13% would be required to meet that portion of the project
debt service chargeable to general revenue. Even if collections from individ-
uals for aqua privies and building materials experience higher defaults than
expected FTC would have adequate revenue to service part of the debt arising
from that source. This possibility is explored in some detail in Annex 8.
4.32      The nearly 1,000 relatively better off families in Francistown and
the small industrial and commercial sectors form the base from which propertv
rates are drawn. The Town Council itself has exnloited this source well,
revaluing properties every five years, the last of which was done in 1Q72 and
is to become effective by the beginning of 1974. The new valuation worth
R6.6 million will include both land and improvements; previous to this only
land was rated. It is intended to raise rates on both land and improvements
and Government will introduce legislation in the National Assembly no larger
than March 31, 1975 to remove the limitations of rates to 3% on land and 1.5%
on improvements currently in force in Botasana.
V. JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The Francistown project comprises a package of inter-related com-
ponents with a variety of benefits difficult to measure.  Nevertheless, the
nroject's justification rests essentially on the following grounds:



- 25 -
-    it will provide a focal center for regional development in
Northern Botswana through minimum investment essential for
commercial and industrial development to take place in
Francistown (resulting in jobs);
-    it will bring about immediate improvement in the living and
public health conditions of the town's large squatter population;
-    it will restore planning control ver the future pattern of
town growth through the implementation of the Master Plan.
The above objectives will be achieved at costs consistent with available
resources.
5.02      With only 4,000 jobs in the town, employment creation is Francistown's
first priority. Fortunately, with the start of mining developments in Northern
Botswana in the past three years, a number of enquiries are being received by
the Botswana Development Corporation from industrial and commercial enter-
prises interested in establishing in Francistown provided well-located ser-
viced land is available. Already four enterprises which would employ about
300 people have firm proposals to establish in the town and would use the
land to be serviced under the project (see Annex 3). In addition, if regional
mining development continues on a sizeable scale, the Francistown M4aster Plan
Studies project that there will be as many as 10,000 jobs in Francistown by
1980 (see Annex 1). In other words, there would be a growing demand for indus-
trial and commercial space in the town.  In this context, the Government
believes that a predominantly "site and services" approach to industrial and
commercial development rather than direct Government investment in enterprises
would be the most effective way of using limited public funds for job creation
in Francistown.
5.03      The project will bring substantial improvement to public health con-
ditions in Francistown. At present nearly 80% of the population is dependent
on polluted water from the river and, during the dry season, shallow wells
dug in the riverbed. There is at present virtually no sewerage in the areas
where people are squatting. Continuing extension of squatter areas, rising
densities, and greater distances to open land will seriously increase health
hazards. The project will provide clean water by standpipe and aqua plivies
for sewerage disposal.
5.04      Other social benefits of the project to the Francistown inhabitants
deserve emphasis as part of the development of a viable long-term urban struc-
ture. At present some 6% of the population, mainly white, enjoy 64% of the
income. The project, through effective cross-subsidization and taxing of the
rich (property tax) to pay for infrastructure Primarily benefiting the poor
will contribute towards income redistribution. The project will also promote
non-racial development in the town.



- 26 -
5.05      Consideration of separate components or aspects of the project,
however, risks missing a major contribution of the project as a whole. By
enabling the implementation of the Master Plan, the project will restore
planning control over the town's expansion pattern through the regulation of
squatting. Without the project, Francistown could be expected to continue
to develop as an unstructured group of settlements scarcely justifying the
term "township" or "city" with the unity that these terms suggest. The pro-
ject, including the associated ODA project, will transform the present frag-
mented urban structure into a consolidated township while providing a rational
basis for future orderly and non-racial expansion.
5.06      The above objectives are being achieved at costs consistent with
available resources.  The original investment proposals prepared by consul-
tants for the Government called for a scheme costing nearly US$6.5 million
(primary infrastructure only) and an expensive conventional housing program.
By concentrating on a simplified and phased approach the IDA project, together
with that of ODA, will cost about US$5.0 million for both primary infrastruc-
ture and considerable secondary development. In otherwords, the project
represents the first serious attempt by Government to implement the cheaper
site and services and squatter upgrading approach to urban shelter as compared
to conventional housing. As shown in Annex 12, a conventional low-cost core
house costs about US$2,700 compared to the US$460 maximum for a serviced
lot in site and services. Even including the US$450 for building materials,
the site and services/self-help approach totaling US$910 is still only one-
third the cost of a conventional house. The successful application of these
lower cost self-help principles in Francistown will have considerable impact
on the development of other towns in Botswana.
VI. RECO!-IENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  the Government of Botswana will:
(i)  assume responsibility for drilling boreholes and
connecting them to FTC's water system (para 3.08);
(ii) not use any IDA funds to finance the preparing and
servicing of commercial land and high-cost residen-
tial plots (para. 3.18);
(iii) always maintain and staff a Division in the Ministry
responsible for urban development which shall be
responsible for carrying out the project (parae. 4.03);
(iv) not approve the appointment of the Director of the
SHHA or changes in the appointment of Town Treasurer
or Engineer  -ifthout prior consutintat-ons wlth -DA
Do^eS +D,8 'ara. 4 <8-



- 27 -
(v)  use for land tenure purposes a Certificate of Rights
acceptable to IDA and issue building by-laws accept-
able to IDA no later than September 30, 1974 (para. 4.13);
(vi)  recover the project costs being treated as loans to FTC
from FTC and individual project beneficiaries in a
manner acceptable to IDA (paras. 4.14, 4.18 and 4.22);
(vii) introduce legislation before the National Assembly
enabling FTC to raise property rates above 1.5% on
improved land and improvements and above 3% on unim-
proved land in 1975 (para. 4.32).
(b) the Francistown Town Council will:
(i)  create a Self-Help Housing Agency and a Site and Service
Management Board to carry out the allocation of plots
under the project and to assist with self-help housing
construction (paras. 4.07 and 4.08);
(ii)  allocate site and service and traditional housing plots
with the help of the SHHA and Management Board and in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association
(para. 4.09);
(iii) recover from individual beneficiaries the costs of
building materials loans, aqua privies and other pro-
ject facilities in a manner acceptable to the
Association (Table, para. 4.18);
(iv)  undertake a water tariff study based on terms of
reference and by personnel acceptable to the
Association (para. 4.28);
(v)  not implement any changes in electricity and water
charges without consulting IDA (para. 4.29).
6.02      As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Francistown Town Council
shall have passed a resolution accepting responsibility for carrying out
certain aspects of the project and a letter exchanged between FTC and Govern-
ment affirming the same (para 4.06).
6.03      Subject to para 6.02, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit
of US$3.0 million.






ANNEX I
Page 1
BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regional Development Potential in Northern Botswana
Regional Development Potential
1.        The region around Francistown is rich in natural resources including
substantial mineral deposits and unrealised tourism potential especially in
the Chobe National Park and the Okovango Delta. The exploitation of these
resources is now getting underway and can be expected to have beneficial im-
pact on Francistown.
2.        Minerals have been discovered at a number of places around
Francistown:
Place                 Minerals                 Stage of Developm nt
Orapa                 Diamonds                 Mine in operation
Selebi/Pikwe          Copper/Nickel            Mine which went into
commercial operation
mid-November 1973.
Matsima               Copper                   Originally firm proposal
for development, now un-
der reconsideration.
Sua Pan               Soda                     Firm development proposal
for 1974.
Selkirk, Phoenix      Copper/Nickel            Proposals for development
being considered.
Morupule              Coal                     Commercial production to
commence this year.
3.        Despite the lack of accommodations and good roads, tourism traffic
to Moremi, Chobe and places north has grown steadily since the mid-1960's
when the first concerted efforts were made to develop tourism. Tourism
through-put in the Chobe had increased from about 3,000 in 1965 to 4,000 in
1970 when game park entrance fees amounted to some R6,000 (US$9,000). 1/ The
USAID financed road linking Francistown and Kazangula at the Zambian border
is now under construction and is expected to increase access for tourist traf-
fic from Francistown to the parks in the north.
1/   FAO and UNDP, Development of the Wildlife Industry in Botswana (Rome 1972).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Francistown--the Existing Situation
4.        While impending regional economic activity is expected to transform
Francistown into a dynamic regional center, the town is today a collection of
disparate settlements with a population of about 22,000 inhabitants. Accord-
ing to the 1971 census the town is growing by about 10% per annum.
5.        The Francistown Planning Proposals (master plan studies) estimated
the 1970 wage and self-employment in Francistown to be 4,168 jobs, of which
2,993 --r- in the private sector including 618 in self-employment, and 1,175
in the government sector. The overall activity rate (proportion of population
in paid or self-employment) was 26%. In fact, the rate varied greatly from
22-26% in low-cost and traditional housing areas to 41% in the high and medium
cost-areas which are primarily European or white areas. This variation in
activity rates is also reflected in the income distribution data.
6.        The total household income in Francistown in 1970 amounted to nearly
R2.5 million or an average per capital income of R153. However, income distri-
bution was very skewed as can be seen in the table below:
Distribution of Household Income, 1970
Annual Income    Number of         % of            % of Total Income
(Rands)       Households    Households   Accruing to Each Category
0         708            20.3                     0
1 -   200       1,074             31.0 )      3
201 -   300          380            11.0 ) 64.8 )          22
301 -   660          789            22.8)        )
661 - 1,600          296             8.5                   14
Over  1,601          224             6.4                   64
Source: Francistown Planning Proposals.
7.        Accompanying these very low income levels of the great malority of
Francistown population, housing conditions are extreme'y poor w? th few or no
urban services available.  Although Francistown Was fe^rd   in -he           vcTh  exr-
tury, its Batswana residents remained squatters unti '53,  iving i n trntiJ.
tional housing on Tat! land between the railway and The Tati River. In 1958,
the Tati Company laid out two small areas of land on the west bank of the
river and relocated the squatters from the east bank. Today however, the
large majority of low income residents remain squatters, living in dismal and
deteriorating conditions west of the Tati where over 17,000 Africans reside.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Population by Race, Income and Type of Housing
in Francistown in 1970
Average /1
Population    Racial Group      Housing Type      Annual Household Income
(Rand)       (US$)
940      Mostly white      High cost              7,000       9,800
900      Colored and
some Africans    Medium cost             1,125       1,575
14,000      Mostly Africans  Low Cost and
traditional housing      240 /2      336
/1  Household size is estimated to be 4.6 persons.
/2  Only 80% of the 14,000 have an average annual household income of R240; the
other 20% were reported to be without any paid employment or any visible
source of income, though food and subsistence items may be forthcoming
from relatives.
Source:  Francistown Planning Proposals.
8.        This general information on social conditions in Francistown is
supplemented by mDre detailed information on the Bluetown area which resulted
from a recent survey. 1/ As Bluetown is by far the best of these low-income
areas, the data no doubt reflect conditions of the relatively better-off. An
estimated 86% of Bluetown households have at least one member in wage or self-
employment; the majority of the people in wage-employment work in laboring or
menial jobs while the self-employed engage primarily in commercial activities,
e.g., producing and selling such items as beer, vegetables, furniture, tin-
ware, baskets and mats.
1/   Four surveys have been carried out in the so-called low-income are. s since
1970. In February 1970 the Tati Settlement Project conducted a survey of
Somerset West -- a traditional housing area on the outskirts of the town.
In May 1970, Wilson and Somersley, Chartered Architects and Town Planners,
undertook a 10% survey of Bluetown, Beerhall, Riverside and Monarch. In
June and July 1970 a 100% survey of Bluetown, Riverside and Monarch was
carried out by the Tati Settlement Project. In May 1972 a final survey
was carried out by Richard and Mitchell as part of the study for the
"Bluetown Proposals".



ANNEX 1
Page 4
9.        According to the Bluetown (1972) and the Wilson and Womersley (1970)
studies, annual household income distribution in Bluetown was as follows: 1/
Income Distribution in Bluetown
Income Category % of Households
---(Rand)-----   1970        1972
0         17        15
1 - 200         30        30
201 - 300          19       15
301 - 660          30       27
Over  660           4        13
10.       Even in Bluetown, about 2/3 of the residents earn under R25 per
month. Most of those earning less than R25 are unskilled laborers, and for
these workers there are few prospects for improved job construction and
higher incomes.
Francistown Proiections
11.       Population and employment projections in the context of a small town
like Francistown are necessarily crude. Nevertheless, the Francistown Plan-
ning Proposals estimate that the town's population will be about 35,000 in
the early 1980's and that employment is likely to rise from the current level
of 4,000 jobs to about 10,000. These projections take into account the im-
pact of raining developments and expansion of regional services on Francistown.
1/   Bluetown Planning Proposals (May 1972) prepared for the Town Council by
the Botswana Christian Council.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Selection of an Urban Form
1.        In their planning report Messrs. Hugh Wilson and Lewis Womeraley,
Chartered Architects and Town Planners, presented two possible strategies for
future development to accommodate Francistown's projected growth. The plans
were designed for expected populations of 35,000 in 1980 and 76,000 in 1995.
2.        Physical restraints of topography and soil conditions limit major
continuous expansion of Francistown to the east, north, and west of the pre-
sent town center, expansion to the east and west also being inhibited by the
lack of roads and the airport's location respectively. However, a considera-
ble land area still remains undeveloped immediately around the town center,
and there is much land suitable for development across the Tati River to the
south.
3.        The two strategies proposed by the consultants differed significantly
in their use of the present town center and the land to the south. The first-
Strategy A--called for all development to occur on the land to the south and
for a complete ban on new investment activity in the existing town center. A
new town in a linear or directional grid pattern would be built between the
railroad line and the parallel primary road to Gaberone. It would have a new
commercial district and industrial sites as well as residential areas with
services to accommodate all future growth. Strategy A also called for the
relocation of most squatter (traditional) areas now to the west of the town.
The old town would become a service area for its local population.
4.        The second proposal--Strategy B--called for continued development
on the present town site up to the limits of its potential, with subsequent
expansion to the south. It was calculated that the present site could accommo-
date a population of 35,000. Later extension to the south would follow the
general grid pattern and infrastructure plans of Strategy A.
5.        There are several points on which the two plans can be compared.
A primary goal of the Government in the development of Francistown is to break
down the prevailing pattern of racial separation. The more affluent whites
are concentrated near the commercial and Government center of the town while
the Batswana live in squatter areas across the river near the airport. Both
proposals recommend a greater mix of housing types and densities within large
residential "environmental areas" to promote every day contacts. However,
moving all new development to the south, as recommended in Strategy A, would
reinforce the insulation of the white enclave. Developing low-income and site
and services areas in accordance with Plan B, on the other hand, offers greater
hope for a more compact and less racially splintered community.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        Both A and B included fully serviced sites for industry in addition
to the existing Dumela industrial site to the north. Comparing the co mercial
aspects of the schemes, it appears that the success of a new shopping center
in the south as proposed in Strategy A would depend to a great deal on a shift-
ing of shopping habits and a total control of development in the old area--
both difficult changes to induce and enforce.
7.        Generally, in regard to local transportation, Strategy A in its
final  o-r   ffered a more efficient network than Strategy B for pedestrian and
motorized traffic which minimized the need for river crossings. Except for
employment in the Dumela site and schooling in town, average trip lengths
would be short, provided the shopping center survived. Until the mid 1980s,
however, more advantages appeared to lie in Strategy B.
8.        Estimated costs of supplying necessary infrastructure for the two
schemes showed that Strategy B would be less expensive in the short run. For
a population of 35,000 the cost of Strategy A was R2.8 milllon and B, R2.4
million--a difference of about US$0.68 million. For the components of water,
sewerage, power and roads, costs for A were slightly higher than for B. Costs
for bridges were slightly higher for B than for A. It was thought, neverthe-
less, that long-term costs would be the same since the costly river crossings
would have to be made in either case in the longer term. What was not men-
tioned was that the southern-most development of Plan A, scheduled for after
1980, would lie outside the watershed of the Tati basin and would require
pumping or an independent sewerage treatment system, either of which would
add to costs.
9.        At the time the plans were proposed, Strategy A offered certain ad-
vantages for detailed planning and implementation because of Government owner-
ship of the site land in contrast to private control of land for Strategy B.
These advantages have since been nullified by Government acquisition of un-
developed land in the Plan B area.  Otherwise, there were no overwhelming incK-
catcrs of the superiority of Plan A. The apparent short-range benefits appeared
to favor Plan B, arising from the compactness of the area.
10.       Under either growth plan, the costs of relocating present households
from traditional housing areas would be substantial.  Strategy A provided for
clearing all settlements west of the Tati River by 1995 and relocati.ng Rcuat-
ters into new conventional housing areas.  Even Strategy B, tVough n'e:
betuer on this point called for substantial resettlement follcvee 1y bkco--
dation in high-cost housing.  Needless to say, the costs of rehoa sing el
these people in conventional housing would have been staggering.
11.       The Government has chosen to proceed under a modified version of
Plan B. The modification lies primarily in the decision not to relocate all
the temporary housing sites now west of the river but to upgrade them instend.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
As proposed in Plan B, a traditional housing area will be located at the con-
fluence of the rivers Tati and Ntshe and connected to the main town by a ped-
estrian bridge. In town, new low-income and site and services housing will
be developed near high-income areas, and services for existing and new urban
facilities will be installed. Accordingly, earlier investments, both public
and private, in housing, education, industry, business, and urban infrastruc-
ture will not be wasted and will provide a stable base for future investment.
If population, employment and wealth grow as anticipated, the consolidation of
the present town site will offer a sound nucleus from which further expansion
can be undertaken.



ANNEY 3
Page 1
BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Design Standards and Project Quantities
1.        The additions to primary infrastructure, serviced land for commerce,
industry and high-cost housing, and low-cost residential development in the
IDA project result from the Francistown Master Plan studies carried out by
Hugh Wilson and Lewis Womersley (Chartered Architects and Town Planners) in
association with Scott Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners, Consulting Engineers
(UK). The subsequent engineering and design work has been carried out by
Brian Colquhoun, Hugh O'Donnell and Partners (UK) working in close cooperation
with the Government Town Planner and Francistown Town Engineer.
Primary Infrastructure
Mi)       Water Supply
2.        Francistown gets its water from six boreholes along the Tati River
with a maximum yield of 500,000 gpd. Present consumption is about 330,000
gpd. Most of the water is consumled by industry (6%), government institutions
(22%) and commercial and high-income residential areas (38%). Only 25% of
the water is consumed by people who draw water from the standpipes on the
west bank of the Tati. Roughly 80% of Prancistown's Population live on the
west bank and because of the very skeletal distribution system it is esti-
mated that only about 20% of these are within reasonable distance of water
standpipes.
3.        Based on a 3.5% annual natural increase and 1,000 annual immigrar.s, 1i
the projected populations for 1977 and 1980 would be 29,000 and 35,000 re-
spectively. Assuming that 15% of this would be high and middle income groups
(earning above R600 p.a.) and the rest low-income groups (earning below R6CO
p.a.) the following breakdown is obtained:
1977      1980
High and riddle inceom        4,350     5,250
Low income                   24,650    29,750
29,000    35,000
1/   Francistown Planning Proposals, p. 114,  This represents the "high"
projection. We believe the population of the town will grow at a
slightly s-ower rate resulting in a  opulation of 35,000 sometime
in the first hail of the next decace,



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Based on 1970 figures the following rough estimates are taken for calculation
of total demand:
High and middle income consumers          80 gpd/person
Low income consumers                      20 gpd/person
Industrial and Storage                 1,000 gpd/acre
Commercial consumers are taken to be included in the first two categories.
Industr- l. a1nd Storage land is estimated to total approximately 86 acres (29
acres existing, 27 proposed, and 30 at Dumela). From the above, water con-
sumption rates for 1977 and 1980 are calculated as follows:
1977 gpd       1980 gpd
High and medium income           348,000         420,000
Low income                      493,000         595,000
Industrial and Storage            86,000          86,000
927,000      1,101,000
4.        Additional boreholes will be drilled in areas north of Monarch and
some of the existing boreholes improved to supply additional water up to 500,000
gpd. A system of ring and subsidiary mains will also be constructed to pro-
vide a better distribution of water, especially to those who, up to now, have
been unserved. The supply network is being designed to serve projected de-
velopment up to a population of 35,000. However, the mains will be installed in
stages and sized for periods not exceeding ten years. The existing mains will
be used wherever possible.
5.        In addition to the boreholes, pumps, connecting pipework and repairs
to existing water works, the project will cover the following works:
Mains
Diameter
A/C Pipes      Length
(xmm)         (in)
450           330
375           600
300         1,280
225         1,400
150         2,570
(ii)      Sewerage
6.        Sewerage treatment works consisting of stabilization ponds, trunk
sewers and pumping station, are to be built under Phase I of the Francistown
development financed by ODA. Contracts have already been awarded. Work on
the ODA financed project commences in September/Octobjr 1973. The sewage
treatment works have a capacity of 150,000 gpd (680 m /d).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        The IDA project will extend the ODA funded sewerage system by
constructing branch sewers to serve the industrial and commercial areas.
The work quantities will involve:
Sewers Diameter           Length
150 mm                   800 m
300 mm                 1,100 m
Force main 225 mm           800 m
Pumping station.               1 No.
8.        All the residential areas under the project, i.e., site and services,
traditional housing, and upgraded squatter areas, will be provided with aqua
privies. The aqua privy is similar to a septic tank employing the same septic
process. The septic action is a natural biological process in which bacteria
and the microscopic and sub-microsopic forms of life, acting in the absence
of oxygen, reduce organic substances and produce gas containing principally
carbon dioxide and methane; sometimes a small amount of hydrogen sulphide and
traces of other gases are given off. The biological process in the aqua privy
represents that portion of the cycle of life and death in which complex organlc
componds are reduced to a simpler condition to be available as food for low
forms of plant life. The principal advantage of septic action is the relatively
small amount of sludge that remains, compared with that produced by plain sedi-
mentation or by chemical precipitation. Another advantage of the aqua privy is
the small amount of attention and skilled attendance required.
9.        In the aqua privy, the excreta falls through a funnel into the floor
of the closet into a tank located immediately below. The water level remains
constant. To ensure adequate absorption of the small amounts of water that
will be used, the residential developments using the aqua privies will be
located in areas with reasonable soakage conditions.
10.       It is proposed to have a contractor install the aqua privy in order
to make sure it is appropriately done.
(iii) Electricity
11.       The Town Council runs a diesel generating station to pr!vide
electricity to consumers within the township. The power station has I
capacity of 0.8 MW.  The detai7s of eyisting machines are as folos



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Dates of
Number                    Capacity                 Installation
2       250 kw diesel alternator sets        November 1968 and
May 1969
2       150 KW diesel alternator sets        1957, 1964
1       Portable diesel alternator           1973
The system is not very reliable.
12.       Electricity is almost exclusively used by commercial, industrial,
and high-income housing areas. Except for some areas that have street
lighting, most of the low-income areas do not have electricity in their homes.
Present demand is about 300 KW and is expected to rise to about 2.5 MW
by the mid 1980s. Except for more street lighting in the lower income areas,
commercial, industrial, institutional and higher income groups will continue
to be the primary consumers.
13.       The investment in power (primarily infrastructure) proposed under
the project is very small, R42,500 or about 2.9% of total project costs. The
funds will be used to connect Francistown to reliable power from Shashe, im-
prove the distribution lines in the town, especially to industrial and commercial
areas, and supply street lighting to residential areas. An 11kV line will be
laid from the existing substation about 5 km outside of town.
(iv) Roads and Bridges
14.       There are just over 1,000 motor vehicles in the Francistown area.
The predominant movements are by pedestrians or cyclists particularly from
areas south of the river to the town center and industrial area. The traffic
census and the 10% social survey carried out by the Town Planning Consultants
showed that 30-40% of journeys to work from low-income areas are by cycle
while the remainder are on foot.
15.       The major roads in the township have been constructed to a tarmac
standard and the rest are gravel or earth. On the basis of the projections
carried out after the traffic census in 1970 the vehicle ownership for 1980
is expected to be 0.3 private automobiles per household in the low- and medium-
income group who make up some 94% of Francistown's population. Traffic volumes
expected by 1985 do not warrant extensive roadworks.
16.       The roads and bridges included in the project are primarily directed
at linking work places and residential areas with special attention to the
pedestrian traffic between the west and east banks of the Tati. For all major
roads appropriate drainage work is included in order to facilitate their use
by cyclists and pedestrians.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
17.       The primary roads to be provided under the project consist of:
Shoulder
Road    on each
Length  Reserve  Carriageway  side  Type of Road          Standard
1,000 m   60 m       7 m        2 m  National trunk      Bitumen
4,100 m   30 m       7 m        2 m  Major arterial      Gravel
18.       As the traffic across the Tati River is predominantly pedestrian,
the existing Maun road bridge will be improved to provide two pedestrian
footpaths. A cycle and footbridge will be built on Ntshe River above the
confluence with Tati River to ensure direct access from Monarch to industrial
and commercial areas. A causeway will also be provided linking areas X and v
(see Map 10504) and Monarch.
Land Requirements for Industry, Commerce and High-Cost Housing
(i) Commercial Areas
19.       At present, shopping is located almost entirely in the center of
Francistown. The area has about 30 shops, 15 service establishments (in-
cluding banks, garages, and hotels), several wholesaling firms, and several
offices including the Town CQuncil, a Post Office and telephone exchange. All
buildings are single story. The total volume of building floor space is
roughly 287,000 sq ft, of which the net retail floor space is about 45, 000
sq ft.
20.       The annual retail expenditure in 1970 was approximately R1,189,000
(US$1,688,380) giving an annual turnover per net square foot of roughly R27
(US$38). Future annual retail expenditure is forecasted to increase by
R988,000 as the population nears 35,000. Assuming an increased total annue!
turnover per square foot of R50 (based on South African experience) an
additional 20,000 sq ft of net retail area would be required. To meet this
net retail floor area and to accommodate other town center functions, some
50 acres would have to be serviced 1V. The project provides for only t,0
acres or one-fifth the projected need.
(ii) Industrial Areas
2X.       Owing to the small size of  trancistown and, the >lco- cf
data on industrial development it fs dfircult to precise>; -sv'e '-            .
land requirements.  The Franc'stown Planning Provesals eFtima':ed 'Se -n
trial acreage needed on the basis of projected emplovment using a revealed
coefficient of 20 workers per acre. If the work force for wlhich local sites
1/   Francistown Planning Proposals, p. 149.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
must be provided grows to about 2,000 by 1977 as projected by the consultants,
about 40.5 additional ha of industrial land would be required. Those require-
ments far exceed the 11 ha to be provided under this project-a more cautious
approach to demand for such land in Francistown.
22.       There is already a small industrial estate in central Francistown
of some 29 acres which also houses the labor recruiting facilities of South
Africar  -       In 1969, the Town Council purchased some 300 acres for a
second industrial estate at Dumela, which were not subject to the Tati Com-
pany trading rights covenant. Poorly located some 4.5 miles away from central
Francistomn, Dumela is between 8-10 miles from the traditional settlements on
the west side of the Tati where over 80% of Francistown live (virtually all
these people walk or cycle to their places of work). In addition, it is on
black cotton soil which is extremely expensive to build on. For these reasons
ind7istrialists have not been eager to establish at Dumela and the Council has
tc diiase the servicing of the estate to complement development of industrial
land in central Francistown where industrialists prefer to locate. So far,
only 30 acres at Dumela have full services and of these 26 have been sold and
4 are under option or in reserve. However, according to the Francistown
Planning Proposals forecasts, the whole of Dumela is likely to be fully de-
veloped by the 1990s.
(iii)     High-Cost Housing Plots
23.       It is anticipated that there will be demand for high-cost plots
from the personnel of enterprises moving into the industrial area to be ser-
viced by the project as well as from Government employees. Government esti-
mates that it will need five high-cost plots annually in Francistown over the
next few years. The demand from the private sector is difficult to estimate
but it is considered far in excess of the 25 plots being provided under the
project. The project plots are thus not meant to satisfy total demand but to
relieve existing shortages and get some development underway.
(iv) Low-Cost Residential Development
24.       Based on information on population, size of household and housing
stock in 1972/73, it is estimated that the following housing units by income
group will be required in Francistown:



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Housing Required by Income Category
Annual Income          % of          Approximate          Approximate
(Rand)          Households       No. of Units       Classification /1
0 -   300           62              2,300     Traditional/Site & Services /2
300 - 1,000           32              1,200     Site and Services/Low-Cost
More than 1,000           6                200      Medium-High-Cost
/1  There is considerable overlapping among the lower categories.  Traditional
housing is actually a form of site and services.
/2  Some families where current incomes are lower than the targets might be
able to afford the facilities any-way, either because of accumulated sav-
ings or remittances from migrant workers in South Africa.
25.       The land required at roughly 20 units to a hectare for site and
oervices and traditional housing is:
Traditional                     115.0 ha
Site and Services                60.0 ha
Low/Medium/High-cost             20.0 ha
26.       The ODA financed Phase I and the IDA project will provide:
82.5 ha for traditional housing
45 ha for site and services
Clearly these provisions do not meet all requirements. This is deliberate
and in keeping with the rather prudent apprcach that characterizes the pro-
ject.



AiNa h
Page 1
BOTSW3LA
FRA'NCISTOW URBAN DEVELOPMEZT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
1. *The following cost estimates are made at September 1973 prices
based on preliminary engineering designs of the various components of the
project carried out by Brian Colquhounq Hugh O'Donnell and Partners. They
include a 10% physical contingency item and another 15% for price escalation
over an 18-Tonth construction period. An additional 5% has been added to
the escalation factor in order to bring project costs to the expected bidding
date of February 1974.



ANNFX 4
BOTSWANA                                                    PA5 "
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
LOCAL      POREIGN       TOTAL            LOCAL      FOREION       TOTAT,
------ ---- Rands _       -               -------------I,$-
A.   PRIMARY INFRASTRUCTURE                                    TOTAL     206,900      348,600     555,500          310,350      522,900      833,-5'
Sewerage                                                        36,920      19,880       56,800           55,380      29,820       85,200
Water Supply                                                    8i,48o      122,220     203,700          122,220      183,330     301 c.
Roads and Bridges                                               78,300     182,700      261,000          117,450      274,050     39),'0
Electricity                                                     10,200      23,800       34,000           15,300       35,700      S 1' 0
B.   COMSMUNITY FACILITIES                                     TOTAL     247,860      185,240      433,100          371,790     ?77,800       0.'_( ,
Town Council Offices                                            90,000      60,000      150,000          135,000       90,000     S3n
Ward Offices - .2 No.                                           19,020       12,680      31,700           28,530       1(,020      L ,s
Works Depot                                                     31,680       21,120      52,800           47,520       31,680 o      )
Clinics      - 2 No.                                            16,680      11,120       27,800           25,020       16,680
School       - 1 No.                                            64,200      42,800      107,000           96,300      64,2,0oo    ½
Market       - 1 No.                                            26,280       17,520      43,800           39,420       2(,280
Block-making machine                                                        20,000       20,000                        30,000       03"'
C.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, ETC.                                 TOTAL      89,700      249,300      339,000         134,550      373,950      5,2-L, 14
Technical Assistance, Management Unit, etc.                     45,000     165,000      210,000           67,500      247,500      305,n0) 
Supervision of construction                                     44,700     104,300      149,000           67,050     1S6,450 2o     3
D.   INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL AND HIGH-COST HOUSING PLOTS
1.   11 ha of Industrial Land                            TOTAL       32,445       38,355      70,800            48,667      57,532      10149
Roads and Drainage                                          7,980      18,620       26,600           11,970      27,930       39,-00
Water Supply                                                5,265       6,435       11,700            7,897        9,652      '7,S49
Sewerage                                                  17,550        9,450       27,000           26,325      14,175      4i 5S o
Street lighting and Power Mains                             1,650       3,850        5,500            2,475       5,775       S3,'52
2.   5 ha of Commercial Area                             TOTAL       214,550      40,450      65,000           36,825       60,675      29 ,-O
Roads and Drainage                                          7,200      16,800       24,000           10,800      25,200       36,00X
Water Supply                                                3,600       4,400        8,000            5,400        6,600      12,00i
Sewerage                                                    7,150       3,850       11,000           10,725        5,775      16,503'
Power cables and Street lighting                            6,600      15,400       22,000            9,900      23,100       3, ½
3.  High-Cost Plots - 25 No.                             TOTAL       15,025       17,975      33,000           22,537       26,962       049,45
Roads and Storm Water Drainage                                840       1,960        2,800            1,260        2,940        4,o00
Water Supply                                                2,250       2,750        5,000            3,375        4,125        ''00
Sewerage                                                   8,125        4,375       12,500           12,187       6,562       t14)
Street Lighting                                             3,810       8,890       12,700            5,715       13,335
E.   LOW-INCOME RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
1.   1,000 Traditional Housing Plots (Monarch)           TOTAL      102,495       87,405     189,900          153,742      131,107       14
Roads, Storm Water Drainage, etc.                           9,000      13,500       22,500           13,500       20,25C       nD,7SC
Water Supply and Standpipes                                 3,825       4,675        8,500            5,737        7,012       !'',74,
Anua Privies                                              78,000       42,000      120,000          117,000       63,000     i S,o 0'
Sireet Lighting                                            11,670      27,230       38,900           17,505       40,845
2.   300 Site and Service Plots                          TOTAL       98,005       88,595     186,600          147,007      132,8__2 _79, 8$9
Roads, Storm Water Drainage, etc.                          16,040      24,o60       40,100           24,060       36,090      60,15 '
Water Supply and Standpipes                                13,635      16,665       30,300           20,452       2Z4,997      4.  4,
Aqua Privies                                               62,270      33,730       96,000           93,405       50,595     I 4 4,'20
Street Lighting                                             6,o60      14,140       20,200            9,090       21,210      ^0,30
3.   B-'lding Materials                                  TOTAL       50,000      150,300     200,000           75,000      22_,0).0',0
T-mber, Roof Sheets, Windows, Doors
and Frames, Cement, Ironmongery,
Paints, Plunmbing Materials, etc.                         50,000     150,000      200,000           75,000      225,000      300,000
4.  Upgrading cf Existing Areas                          TOTAL      101,450       88,650     190,100          152,175      132,975      285,15^
Roads and Storm Water Drainage                             21,200      31,800       53,000           31,800       L7,'00       79o500
Water Mains and Standpipes                                  8,370       10,230      18,600           12,555       15,345       27,aO
Aqua Privies                                               67,470      36,330      103,800          101,205       54,495    '155 0OO
Street Lighting                                             4,410      10,290       14,700            6,615       15,435       ^2,05C
F.   CONTINGENCIES  /1    10%                                             82,873       81,527      170,400          124,310      131,290    2'
^.   ESCALATION ITEMS 2   20%                                            193,686      262,900      456,600          290,529      394,4co     65e4, 0
Sept.1973 - June 1975)
GRAND TOTA.  4.2144 g8o   1 665 .000   2.910.000        1.867.483   2_            _.' .030^
A,B,D,E;  exceDo  ^or K20,000 in categ^ry B Brlock-makirtg rachine) an,! K200.000 in category E (building raterials'.
L Items A-E.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
2.        Given the very comprehensive nature of this project and the small
value of many of the components, it would be out of proportion to provide a
detailed breakdown of costs for each of the sub-headings shown in the table
above. Detailed breakdowns will be given for these select items: prepara-
tion and servicing of 27 acres of industrial land, supporting or primary
infrastructure, and one of the subdivisions for site and services.
Industrial Land (27 acres)
A.   Sewerage
150mm dia 2,250m at R12.00                R27,000        R27.000
B.   Water
100mm dia 1,209m at R6,00                   7,254
75mm dia   840m at R5,27                   4,427         11,681
C.   Roads
1,150m at R2031,00/lOOm                                   23,356
D.   Stormwater Drainage                                              3,220
E.   Street Lighting and Power Distribution                           5,491
Total                                                    R70,748



ARNNX L4
Page4
Supporting Lnfrast-ucture
Item          Cost/Unit           Total
A.  Severage
150rm dia     800G  at R1 ,200   R  9,600
300.n dia   1,100m at H2,400       26,400
P.S. )i. 2                              Lump SUM               10,000
Rising Main                               80Gm At Rl ,350      10,800
TOTAL     a 56,800
B.  Water
450=. dia     330m at R2,970        9,801
375nm dia     600m at R2,720       16,320
300mm dia     547m at R2,250       12,307
225nm dia     625. at R1,300        8,125
150.. dia     400. at R1,000        4,000
225rmm dia    625. at R1,300        8,125
150Dm dia     980m at RI,ODO          980
150.. dia   1,090m at R1,000       10,900
300nm dia     300D  at R2,200       6,750
225nm dia     15G0m at R1,300       1,950
R 79,238
Pipes connecting boreholes
to aystem:               300mm dia   2,000m at R2,250        45,000
150mm dia   1,s440m at Rl,OOO      14,400
Purification works                                             20,000
Chlorinator                                                     5,000
Borehole puas                               5  at R2,000       10,000
Booster pua to puwp water
from purification works                                      30,000
to system
124,400
TOTAL    R 203,658
Sq         203,700
c.  Roads
National Trunk Roads:
N - Railway Line plus
traffic circle                        1,000m at P2,000/100m  20,000
INjor Arterial Roads:                   2,300m at R1,520/100m  34,905
600m at R1, 520/11Om   9,105
600m at RM,520/100m   9,105
600r at R1,520/0oom   9,105
L.747m at R1,520/100m  11,360
Railraod crossing and protection                                5,000
Storinater drainage has been eatimated at                      23,742
TOTAL    R 122,322
D.  Bridges
Widening present bridge over Tati River                     R 33,300
Pjdestrian bridge to Mnarch                                    38,850
Submersible bridge from Area X to ibnarch                      66,600
R 138,750
TOTAL    R 261,072
Say       R 261,000
S.     ect - ii
Street lighting betwee,' Area S and the Industrial Area         2,664
Feed to Ar-a k                                                  3,330
reed z3 Area Y                                                  7,860
Feed - o Area X                                                 1,85
*ea -so Area L
Faec  Aro a-ea V                                                2,4L42
ITdastvial Area mini substatior                                 6,660
Co0=k-rci.C.. Area feed and sini substation                     7,326
TOTAL    R 33,710
Say       a 34,000



ANNEX b
Pa-ge5
A Typical Cost Estimate for
A Site and Services Subdivision (Area W)
Item        Q    Cost/unit   Total
A.  Sewerage                           Nil          Nil              Nil
B. Water                            150mm dia    249m at R10,00      2,490
lOOmm dia    290m at R 6,00      1,741
75mm dia    415m at R 5,27      2,185
50mm dia   O54om at R 4,00      2,156
38mm dia  l,OOOm at R 2,50      2,500
Standpipes 21 No.                 at R60,00     1,260  12,332
C. Roads                                       3,052m at R187/lOOm  5,708   5,708
D.  Stormwater                                                       6,850   6,850
E.  Street Lighting -7,124   7,124
Total R32,014






ANNEX 5
BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plot Allocation Procedure in Sites and Services 1/
1.        The selection of plot occupants for site and services and tradi-
tional areas will be made by the Self-Help Housing Agency (SHHA) with the
help of Council Ward Officers subject to the approval of the Site and Services
llanagement Board. 2/
2.        To be eligible for site and service plots, applicants must:
(a)  be at least 18 years of age and residents of Francistown;3/
(b) demonstrate their ability to pay the combined service charge
or show proof of falling within the target income group, pro-
visionally fixed at R300-1,000, to be verified from Council
Tax Rolls; and
(c)  have a job within Francistown area.
3.        Because plots will be ready at different times and in locations
some of which might be less popular than others, a priority system will be
formulated along the following lines:
(a) first priority will be given to persons living in those parts
of Francistown scheduled for resettlement, e.g., Somerset East
(hospital site and primary school) and the Monarch Traditional
Housing Area; within this grouping, priority would be given to
families demonstrating immediate need for such accommodation; and
(b) priority will next be given to people living in other settled,
largely squatter portions of Francistown, e.g., Riverside
North/South, Somerset West, area surrounding Satellite, etc.,
who can afford and would like to move to new areas.
1/   The only criteria for allocation of traditional plots will be 2(a).
2/   The Board composition is discussed in para.  4.08.
3/   Applicants who are non-citizens must prove they are bona fide residents
of Botswana.



ANNEX 6
BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
tonthly Charges
1.        T-.e avarious components of monthly charges are described in para.
4.20 on Household ,Monthly Repayments in Chapter 4 of the text. This annexture
furtaer details the item on Recurrent Services which are to be paid by all
plotholders.
2.        Recurrent services cover both recurrent costs to the Town Council
and expenditures for primary infrastructure (water and electricity). At
present, it is estimated that this charge will be made up as follows:
Service                Monthly Charge                 Paid Into
(Rand)
Refuise collection                     0.35                  General revenue
Public conveniences                    0.20                  General revenue
Road maintenance                       0.20                  General revenue
Street lights                          0.05                  General revenue
Administrationi                        0.05                  General revenue
Water                                  0.55                  Water account
Total                             1.40
All of Lte above cniarges cover tlhe full operating costs of providing services
withi the single exception of water.  Clean water represents an essential
requiremnent for good puBlic hiealth and in this case charges are based on
what the Council believes these people can afford to pay.  The difference
will be inet througlh cross-subsidies from the upper income groups. According
to recent Town Council water study, the people who were drawing water from
standpipcs used 27.6% of all water supplied.  The total expenditure on theL
Counicil's water account operation was RllU,000 in 1972. Given the estimated
number of househiolds :among standpipe users, each household was found to be
liable for R12;37 per year or Rl.06 per month.  According to the Council's
cross-subsidy principle, standpipe users are charged one-half the above
calculated figure or RO.55 and those with individual connections propor-
tionately more in order to cover tne full cost of water supply.
3.        The monthly payment, together with the Local Government income tax
for the self-employed will be collected by Ward Office personnel.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BOrlSWNA,
FR'ANCISTOWNJ MMAN DEVLOPKE P1lJEST
Draft Certificate of Rights 1/ and Building By-Laws 2/
Certificate of Ri'ghts
TOWN COUNCIL
CERTIFICATE OF RIGHTS issued by the .Tow
Council Under Authority of the President of the Republic of Botswana in
terms of the State Land Law No. 29 of 1966, as amended.
The      ............. .....Town Council (hereinafter referred to as
the "Council") grants to: -
NAME  (Print)  ...................................
ADDRESS         ...................................
,...............................
(hereinafter referred to as the "Occupier") the Rights set out below, and
subject to the obligations, terms and conditions therein, in respect of
Plot No.      ......... $4 ........................
...............*.*......... .. ......
..............           ..  S.......
as shown in Plan No.         ........... held by the
Department of Surveys and Lands.
1.   (a)  This Certificate of Rights is the sole property of the Occupier
who is not entitled or empowered nor has he any right to mort-
gage, hypothecate, pledge or give as security, whether directly
or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever, any of the rights
granted to him by virtue of this certificate.
(b) This certificate can be ceded, assigned, transferred or made
over with tile written consent of the Council.
2.   On the death of the Occupier the rights granted to him under this
Certificate slhall be inheritable.
1/   Government intends to revise this draft in order to make it understandable
to simple townspeople who will use it. Final version will be submitted
for comment.
2/   The by-laws are also being finalized and a final version will be sent to
the Association for comment.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.   The Occupier, shall not give up occupation or possession of the plot
or any portion thereof without notifying the Council in advance.
4.   The plot shall only be used for residential purposes, provided however,
that the Occupier shall be entitled to use the aforesaid plot for any other
purposes whirh are authorized in writing by the Council.
5.        (a)  The Occupier shall be entitled to reside on the plot
himself and with members of his family and with his
friends and with any of his lodgers.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-clause (a) above,
lodgers of the occupier shall only be entitled to reside
on the plot if the occupier is himself residing thereon,
unless the occupier obtains the Council's prior written
consent.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-clause (a) above,
the Occupier shall not sub-let the plot without the
written permission of the Council.
6.   The Occupier shall develop the plot (here set out specifically what type
of development must take place) within       .................... months.
7.        (a)  The Occupier shall pay to the Council a regular
service payment in consideration of the rights
hereby granted to him and for the services to
be provided by the Council to the plot in respect
of which this Certificate is granted and to the
locality in respect of which this plot is situated.
(b) The service payment referred to in sub-clause
(a) above for the rights to be gtanted by the
Council to the Occupier in terms of sub-clauses
(a) above shall be the sum of R ...............
(please fill in this amount) ........... per
(please fill in whether week, month or year)
...... . . . .. .. ... which shall be payable ...
(please fill in whether weekly, monthly or
yearly) ........... in advance on the first day of
each ................... (please fill in whether
week, month or year) .............. commencing from
the. .....  day of .19..... at
the offices of the Council or such other place as
the Council may notify the Occupier.
(c}  Th^e Counc.i, srovided that it has obtained the
wr_e-z   ap3:oval of the Minister of Local Govern-
2ent arnd Lands, shall be entitled to vary the
amount cf cne service paymLent to be paid by the
,eccu-:-er _o .Le Council, and in, th.e event of the



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Council so varying the amount of the service pay-
ment, the Occupier hereby agrees to pay such
varied amount, the provisions of this clause
applying in the case of such variation mutatis
mutandis. The Council shall give to the Occupier
notice in writing of any variation of the amount
of the service payment.and the date such variation
shall become effective.
(d) The notice of variation envisaged in sub-clause
(c) above shall be deemed to have been validly
given by the Council to the Occupier if the Council
serves the notice on the Occupier personally, or,
if there are any improvements on the plot, affixes
it to any such improvement, or, if the plot is a
vacant piece of land, affixes it to any suitable
post or other material on the vacant land so that
such notice is clearly visible.
(e) The variation of the service payment shall become
effective on such date as may be specified in the
notice given by the Council in terms of sub-clause
7 (c) above, but in any event shall not become
effective before fourteen (14) days have elansed
after the service of such notice.
(a)  Should the Occupier commit or permit the commission
of a breach of sub-clauses 1 (a) or 5 (b) or 5 (c)
or be 6 calendar months in arrears in respect of any
service payment due by him under clause 7 and fail
to remedy any such breach within thirty (30) days
after notice (which can be given in any of the
manners set out in clause 7 (d) above by the Council
to the Occupier) then the Council shall be entitled,
notwithstanding anv previous waiver or anything to
the contrary contained herein, but not obliged, to
cance] this Certificate of Rights forthwith and to
retake possession of the plot without prejudice to
its claim for any arrear service payments or for
any damage which it may suffer or sustain by reason
of such breach and cancellation, and in that event
the Occupier will have no claim whatsoever, whether
for damages or otherwise, against the Council. Can-
cellation by the Council shall be given in writing
and service of such cancellation shall be deemed to
have been validly given if such written cancellation
is served in any of the manners set out in Clause 7
(d) above.



&NNEX 7
Page 4
(b)  In the event of the Council cancelling this Certificate
in terms of Sub-clause (a) above, then the Council shall
pay to the Occupier the current market value, (as at the
date of cancellation) or the cost thereof, whichever is
the lesser amount, of any improvements on the plot.
9.        (a)  The Council shall, upon being so directed by the Minister
that the plot is required for public purposes be entitled
to cancel this Certificate of Rights, provided that it
gives to the Occupier six (6) months' notice of its in-
tention so to do and advises in such notice the Occupier
what the public purpose is for which the Government
requires the plot.
(b) "Public purposes" means one or other of the following
purposes:-
(i) in the interest of defence, public safety,
public order, public morality, public
health, town and country planning or land
settlement,
OR
(ti) in order to secure the development or
utilization of that or other property for
a purpose beneficial to the community.
(c)  Any such notice, and any such cancellation following
thereon shall be deemed to have been validly given by
the Council to the Occupier if served in any of the
manners set out in Clause 7 (d) above.
(d)  In the event of the Council cancelling this contract
in terms of sub-clause (a) above, then the Council
shall pay to the Occupier the current market value
as at the date of cancellation or the cost thereof,
whichever is the lesser amount, of any improvements,
on the plot.
10.        (a)  The Council shall advise the Occupier by notice in
writing that he may appeal to the Mrinister within
30 days, or any longer period which the Minister
may allow, against any of the decisions made by
the Council in terms of Clauses 1 (b), 4, 5 (b), 5
%c), 6, 7 and 8. Any such notice to be given by
thc  Gouncii shall be deemed to have been validly
gi.ve;- -f served in any of the manners set out in
c,ause i () above.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(b) Within 30 days or any longer period which the Minister
may allow, after any such notice envisaged in terms of
sub-clause 10 (a) above has been served on the Occupier,
he shall have the right to appeal to the Minister of
Local Government and Lands.
(c) The Occupier must exercise his right of appeal through
the District Commissioner. It shall be the duty of the
Distrlct Commissioner -
(i) to assist the occupier in drafting and framing
any appeal,
(ii) to transmit the appeal forthwith to the
Minister of Local Gove=nment and Lands,
(iii)  to advise the Minister of Local Government
and Lands, if applicable, of all the circum-
stances relevant to any appeal not having
made within 30 days.
(iv) to assist the occupier to obtain any necessary
information to enable him to draft and frame the
appeal in terms of sub-clause 10 (c) (i) above.



ANEXU 7
Page 6
nap?lication
1.        These Regulations shall apply to any dwelling house within any
zone of the Francistown Township or part thereof in which the use of land
has in terms of a town planning scheme been prescribed as being for Site
and Service Housing.
Interpretation
2.        In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,
"dwelling house" means a building used for the purpose of human
habitation;
"habitable room" means a room in a dwelling house constructed or
adapted for use as a living or sleeping room;
"Local Authority" means the Francistown Town Council and/or the
Self-Help Housing Agency of the Francistown Town Council;
"tot" means any pioce or parcel of land demarcated by measurement
in a designated Site and Service Housing Area; and
"to erect any dwelling house" means (a) to erect a new dwelling
house and (b) to re-erect, add to, alter, or convert an existing
dwelling house.
Notice of Intention to Build
3.   (a)  Every person proposing to erect any dwelling house shall give
notice of his intention to build to the Local Authority and shall
su?p'y such particulars of the proposed building as the Local
Authority may require;
(b) Actual construction of the dwelling house shall not commence until
It.ae ?7-oposer has obtained from the Local Authority a permit in
v::, ::.g auThorizing the construction of such bui'lding;
(_, S_ 9z~  Th_' U.  j Ui~i   ¢'c by'ixg oW-n2b, the _szal Authority shall. be
S_*_ch _ . occues  ?:ovisio_sS a.s it may require.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
Permit for Occupation
4.        No person shall occupy or permit the occupation of any dwelling
house until he has obtained from the Local Authority a permit in writing
authorizing occupation of such premises, which permit shall not be issued
by the Local Authority unless it is satisfied that the construction of
the dwelling house is of a standard not lower than is required by these
Regulations.
Provided that where the Local Authority is satisfied that it is
not unreasonable to occupy a portion of any building before the completion
of the.whole building, the Local Authority may authorize the granting of
a certificate for occupation of such portion only.
Inspection by Local Authority
5.        Any person authorized by the Local Authority may at any time during
the erection and on completion of a dwelling house enter upon the lot
and inspect the building for the purpose of ensuring that it has been
erected to a standard not lower than is required by these Regulations.
Minimum Space Requirements
6.   (a)  No dwelling house shall be erected in a Site and Service Area
having an overall floor surface space of less than 25 square
meters;
(b) No dwelling house shall be erected in a Site and Service Area
having less than three rooms, namely a bedroom, a living room
and a kitchen, contained within the 25 square meters prescribed
in 6(a) above;
(c) No dwelling house erected in a Site and Service Area shall contain
bedrooms of less than 8.5 square meters, living rooms of less than
11 square meters, or kitchens of less than 5.5 square meters.
Habitable Room
7.   (a)  There shall be at least two habitable rooms in every dwelling house;
(b) Every habitable room shall, on average over the entire roof and
ceiling area be not less than 2.45 meters from the floor to the
underside of the roof (or ceiling, if one is provided), and no
part thereof shall be less than 2.30 meters from the floor to
the underside of the roof or ceiling.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Foundations
8.        Every person who erects a dwelling house shall construct every wall
or pier of the building so as to rest upon a layer or good cement concrete
of sufficient width and thickness laid on solid ground, or upon a sufficient
bressummer, or upon some other solid and sufficient substance as a foundation.
Walls
9.   (a)  Walls shall be constructed of cement, brick or block (11.4 cms),
or burnt brick (11.4 cms), or unburnt brick (23 cms), or to
specifications as laid down in the Building Control Regulations,
1964, as amended from time-to-time;
(b) The surface of wails, internally and externally, shall be ade-
quately sealed to prevent the harbouring of insects and the
penetration of rain.
Damp-Proof Course in Walls
10.       Every person who erects a dwelling house shall cause every wall
(including any pier forming part of a wall) of the building to have an
effective damp-course of sheet lead, galvanized iron, asphalt or vitrified
stoneware, or a double course of impervious slates or blue bricks laid to
break joints and bedded in cement mortar, or of other not less durable
material impervious to moisture not higher than the upper surface of the
concrete or other similar solid material forming the structure of the
floor, and, in any case, at a height of not less than 15 cms above the
surface of the ground adjoining the wall or pier.
Floors
11. (a) Floors may be made of concrete, good sound burnt brick, wood, or
other material approved by the Local Authority;
Provided that, in the case of wooden floors on the ground floor of
a dwelling house, the Local Authority may require the concreting of the
ground underneath and the rodent-proofing or mosquito-proofing of any space
between the floors and the ground.
(b)  Every floor shall have a smooth finish and shlall be at least 15 C_T_;
above the surrounding ground level unless thresholds are built
in each external doorway which adequately prevent the flow of
storm or other water into the dwelling house.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
Windows and Doors
12.  (a)  Every habitable room shall be provided with unobscured glazed
windows, all of which shall be capable of opening so as to provide
ventilation;
(b) Window openings in every habitable room shall face onto the
external area so as to provide a clear lighting area equal to
at least one-fifteenth of the floor area of such room;
(c) External and internal door frames shall not measure less than
183 cms in height and not less than 76 cms in width;
(d) Doors and windows shall be constructed in such a way as to have
rigid frames and shall be firmly fixed in the walls.
Preserving of Woodwork
13.       All timber and woodwork shall be properly protected from the
attacks of insects, when necessary in the opinion of the Local Authority.
Roofing
14.  (a)  Every roof shall be of thatch, weather-proof and properly laid,
corrugated iron, aluminum, asbestos, or other material permissible
in terms of the Building Control Regulations, 1964, as amended
from time-to-time;
(b) Any material used shall be in good condition and the roof shall
be constructed so as to be regular-in shape and weather-proof
and shall be supported on an adequate frame.
Ventilation
15.  (a)  Every habitable room shall be ventilated by openings which shall
be unobstructed except by gauze wire;
(b) All such openings shall give direct access to the external area
and the aggregate area of such openings shall be equal to at least
one hundreth of the floor area of the room.
Site Drainage
16.       Site drainage, wlhere practicable, shall be adequately arranged
within thc lot boundaries so as to dispose effectively of storm water with-
out damage or nuisance to adjoining lots, roads, or open spaces.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 0
Sanitary Conveniences
17.  (a)  Every dwelling house shall be provided with a sanitary convenience
of a type approved by the Local Authority;
(b) Every such convenience shall be walled and roofed to a height of
at least 2.14 meters from the floor, be provided with a door
properlv fitted and hung, and with a       ............... (exact
'-;cription of the floor to await sketch drawings of proposed
super-structures for Aqua-Privies under preparation by the
Sewerage Engineer, Ministry of Works and Communications).
Separate and Independent Access
18.       No person shall erect a building intended, adapted, or designed to
be lzed wholly or partially for human habitation so that any portion thereof
whi,ii constitutes a dwelling house shall be without separate and independent
access to a street or lane.
Sinks, Baths, Etc., To be Trapped
19.       All sinks, baths, and other water fittings shall be trapped to the
satisfaction of the Local Authority, and the traps shall have a water seal
of at least 38 cms.
Temporary Buildings
20.       Not withstanding anything contained in these Regulations, it shall
be lawful for the Local Authority to grant permits for any specified period
not exceeding twelve months for temporary buildings on such obligations as
to the standard of the buildings, the removal thereof and otherwise and
generally upon such terms as it may think fit, and these Regulations shall
not apply to any buildings erected under such a permit unless by express
stipulations.
Provided that before granting a permit the Local Authority shall
be satisfied that sufficient wholesome water supply and sanitary accommoda-
tion is provided in the vicinity where such temporary buildings are to be
erected.
lenalties
21.       Any person who commences construction prior to the issue of a
permit, or who occupies or allows his building to be occupied prior to the
issue of a permit, or who contravenes any of the other provisions of these
Regulations shall he gul.lty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine
not exceec-_Ing fifty rands, or, in default of payment thereof, to imprisonment
not exceec ig one month.



ANNEX 7
Page 11
Provided that whether or not the Local Authority takes action in
respect to this Clause, it shall remain within the power of the Local
Authority to institute action, without prejudice, for the withdrawal of an
occupant's Certificate of Rights.






An4iLX 8
Page 1
BOTSWUNA
FT:ZCZISTOWa. U?AKX DEVLOPMENEIT PROJZCT
Francistown Town Council
llotes on Fature Finances Together with
Projected RNevenue and _ipenditure Statements
1         Government's policy is to restrict Town Council expenditures to
available local revenues. This policy is exercised through the Town Council
..egulations which require that annual To-n ,ouncil expenditures be restricted
to prior estimates approved by Central Government.  For this purpose, expendi-
tures include cash outlays for operations, debt service and minor capital
expenditures.  Tbwn Council borrowings also require Ceintral Government approval.
2.         The ability of FTC to meet the project debt service and r current
expenses (excluding utility operations) is demonstrated in the table on page 4
of this Annex. As the utility operations are likely to be taken over by the
.i:ational Corporation in the next few years, it is therefore considered prudelt
to treat them separately in Annex 9.
3.        Actual and projected revenues for the Town Coulcil are as follows:
Actual                       Projected
1971  1972   iT93 197  -197i 1970  1977  i979  1979  1980
-(~~~~~~~R I'OO )   -------------
Property Rates       11    19      20    80    135   160   178   238   247   262
Local Government
income tax         95    91      94   103    114   125   138   151   167   184
Schlool fees          15    16      16    16      18    18    18    20    20    20
Collection for Aqua
Privies and building
materials            -      -      -     -       -     -      52    52    5'    52
Standing charges      -      -      -     -       26    32    35    38    41    45
Other                 39    54      75    82      91   110   100   121   133   146
Total           160   180    205   281    384   '45   521   620   660   709



A '!- 8
Page 2
Revenues
4.       The assumptions used in projecting FTC's revenues are given
below:
;a)  Propercy rates:  A new rating valuation roll is to be iatrodaced
shortly. Previously only land was assessed for property rates,
but the new valuation roll includes both buildings and land. The
valua.ion roll will be used for rating assessments as soon as
anreals have been heard by the Valuation Courts.  The rating
ia-Lkabion and expected yield from 1973 to 1980 are given below.
Land
Year                Unimproved      Improved        Rating Yield
--------(in ROOO)--------------
1973                   1,400          5,200             20
,74                   1,400         5,200             80
1975                   1 ,400         6,100            133.5
1976                   1s,750         7,200            160.5
1977                   2,200          8,400            178.5
1978                   2,200         11,500            238.5
1979                   2,200         12,100            247.5
1980                   2,200         13,100            262.5
The figures are based on Government estimatess revised in con-
sultation with an outside valuation co.isultant. It is assumed
that in FY75 rates on unimproved land will be increased from 2%
to 3% and rates on improved land from 1 % to 1.5%;
(b) Local Government tax:  A 10% growth rate has been assumed;
(c)  School fees:  Annual revenues from school fees are R6 per student.
It has been assumed that new primary schools will be available in
1975 and 1978;
(d)  M4nthly collections from beneficiaries for aqua privies and building
materials are set at a level projected to cover related debt service
from FTC to Government after allowing for a 10% default in collections.
Collections are estimated at R52,000 and will begin in 1977;
(e)  Sta-ding charges:  This is based on projected standing charges payable
by plot occupants. An annual collection of RIO per plot is assumed
instead of the R16 that would be indicated by R1.40 monthly standing
charge. This in fact amounts to an assumed transfer of the ROD.5
.for water included in the Standing Charge to the Water Account.
(f) Other revenues: Consists of fees for sanitation services (emptying
of septic tanks in high-cost areas), trade licenoes, beer levy, etc.
These are assumed to increase about 10% per anniium



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Expenditures
5.        The major categories of expenditures include:  recurrent expenses
to maintain municipal services at a level consistent with population growth,
project debt service (for commmnity facilities and roads, aqua privies and
building materials), and recurrent expenditures attributable to the project.
6.        The broad assumption is made that an annual increase of 100 in
recurrent expenditures will be necessary to maintain municipal services at
a level consistent with population growth. This compares favorably with
the expected population growth rate of 7%.
7.        Project debt service to be financed from FTC revenues includes
R37,000 per annum for community facilities and roads, and R52,000 for aqua
privies and building materials. Interest and principal payments commence in
1977. No interest is to be charged during the construction period.
8.        Recurrent expenses directly attributable to the project consist of
the cost of running the Self-Help Housing Agency. These expenses estimated
to be at a peak of US$30,000 in 1975 and then to decline as the construction
phase draws near to completion, will be met by Government as part of technical
assistance to FTC.
9.        A major part of the ODA project costs will be met through low/medium
cost plot sales, except for small amount of sewerage costs involving R8,000
per annum in debt service to be met from general revenues.
Consolidated Statement
10.        As can be seen in the table below, Francistown should be able to
meet its debt servicing obligations under the project comfortably and have a
3lgnificant revenue margin for improving municipal services over and above
the project.



Francistoawn Town Counwil
Projected State-ent o. Revoenues and Expenditures
(in  . O)
Actual                          Proiected -
1971  1972     1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1975  1979  1960
Revenues                                          160   180       205   281   384   445    521   620   660   709
Expenditures
Recurrent                                      127   183      201   221   243   268    295   324   356   392
IDA Project Debt Service                        -     -         _-       -         -      93    93    93    93
Other Debt Service                               3     3         3     3     3     3      11    11    11    11
SUB-TOTAL         130   186       20     M    246   271            428   460   496
Surplus Available to
Improve Municipal Services                         -     -          1    57   138   174    122   192   200   213



ANNEX 8
Page5
Risk
11.       Even in the event that municipal revenues fall short of current
estimates, and more substantial default occurs in aqua privy and building
materials collection, the City will still be able to meet its commitments,
as shown in the table below.
Revenues             1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Assuming 40% default
on building materials
and aqua privies      205    281    384    445    500    599    639    688
Assuming both the
above and 20% lower
revenues from pro-
perty tax, local
government tax and
other sources         167    228    316    366    417    h97    530    570
Expenditures           204    224    246    271    399    428    46o    496
Surplus (Annual)       (37)     4     70      95    18      69     70      74



ANNEX 9
BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Francistown Town Council
Notes on Financial Asects of Electricity and Water
Together with Proposeed New Charles
1.        FTC's accounts, including utilities, are kept on the following
principles: Depreciation is not recognized, although debt service is treated
as an expense along with transfers to renewal funds.  Year-end inventories
of current items, sucli as stores, are not taken into account. Expense
wihich are directly attributable to water and electricity are classified
separately in FTC's accounts. Current revenues and expenses are included on
a cash basis. Although the preparation of utility accounts on commercial
principles would be preferable, the expense and staff commitment to do so
would not be justified at the present time, for a muncipality of Francistown's
size and limited staff resources. It is probable that, at some future date,
Francistown's water operations will be taken over by the Water Utilities Corpo-
ration and the electricity operations by the Botswana Power Corporation. This
would strengthen the operation of the town's utility operations as the National
Corporation will have better access to expertise. However, these Corporations
were fonned only a few years ago and not anxious to take over immediately.
2.        Unlike water operations, electricity operations in Francistown
have produced cash surpluses. These surpluses have more than covered
deficiencies on water operations. The following table summarizes water and
electricity revenues and expenditures between 1970 and 1972.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Table      Revenues and Expenditures, 1970-72
Electricity and Water
1970     1971      1972
----(in R'000)
Electricity
Revenues                                          97       128      149
Expenditures:  Recurrent                          47        56       67
Debt Service                       5         5        2 /1
52    - 61        69
Surplus after meeting recurrent                   45        67       80
expenses and debt service
Capital Expenditures                               3         7        3
Transfers to Renewal Funds                         7         -       10
10        7        13
Surplus                                           35        60       67
Water
Revenues                                          28        31       30
Expenditures:  Operating and capital              18        27       47
Debt Service                      10        10         8
28       37        55
Deficit                                            -       (6)      (25)
/1   Includes loan repayment.
3.        Electricity charges (see below) are much higher than in Gaborone
and Lobatse, even allowing.for higher fuel costs in Francistown.  They are
also based on a declining block tariff.  FTC would like to review these
charges. Therefore, a firm-of consultants is to be appointed to recommend
a new tariff based on capital and operating costs.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
4.        FTC has prepared a new schedule of water rates (see below), which
has just gone into effect. The main objective of the new rates is to in-
crease water revenues to a level which will cover operating expenses, debt
service and provide a surplus for development projects. The proposal is
based on an estimate of annual outlays by FTC's water engineer and its plan-
ning officer.
5.        Past water charges, which were set in 1962, were at a flat rate of
RO.40 per thousand gallons. This charge was inadequate to meet water cash
outlays, including debt service, but electricity surpluses have more tnan
offset the deficiency. The new water charges will be in the form of an
increasing block tariff.
The new water charges are substantially comparable in scale to
those in Gaborone and Lobatse and should substantially increase water
revenues.
7.        Aside from the project, FTC anticipates that there will be no
need for major capital expenditures on either water or electricity in the
next few years.



ANNEX 9
Pagel1
Present Electricity Charges at Francistown
No. of Units                             R-and per Unit
Domestic            0 - 30                                        0,15
31 -130                                       0,10
Over 130                                       o,o6
M4inimum charge 322,00 per rnnth
Business            0 - 100                                       0,13
101 - 500                                      0,10
501 -1000                                      0,08.
1001 -2000     .                                0,07
Over 2000                                       0,°5
Minimum charge R2,,00 per mcnth
Industrial          0 - 1000                                      o,o8
1001 - 2000                                     o,o6
2000                                       0,05
Minimumr charge RIO, 00 per T..onth
Principal E1ectricity Qharges at Gaborone and Lotbatse
No. of Units                            Rand per Unit
Domestic            O - 50                                        0,082
50 -200                                      0,0o41
Over 200                                      0,027
Business            0 - 100                                       o,8.4
100 - 500                                      0,0o47
Ohner 500                                      0,1033
Industrial          Demand charae of $5,25 per month per kw of half-hourly
demand subject in rinimura of $200 per month.
Energy charge                                0,015



ANNE 9
Exdsting, W,Jater Charges at Gaberone and Lobatse
(Proposed -rancistcwn W.*ater Char,es)
I.  Residential anld Comm.ercial User3
Consumer Classes (Gallons per Month)                              Rates
(per thousand IG)
0 - *1,999                                                     .50
2,000 - 14,999                                                     .90
15,000 - 29,999                                                    1.00
30,000 - 49,999                                                    1.10
50,000 and over                                                    1.20
II. Industrial Us 3rs
Consuraer Classes (3allons per nonth)
o - 14999                                                      .80
15ooo - 29999                                                      .90
*0^ _- 1.0000                                                     1.00
50000 and over                                                     .90
III.  Governnent Bll'k Usera
ConsiLmer Classes (3allons Der nonth)
0 - 149999                                                  .80
150000 - 299999                                                  .go
300000 - 499990                                                 1 .00
500000 and over                                                 1.10
IV. Common Standrive Users Combined .Rate Breakdoiun
(per nonth)
Water                                                           .55
Refuse Collection                                              .35
Streets and Drainage                                           .20
Sewerage                                                       . 20
1.30



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Gaborone-Lobatse Water Charge /
Monthlly Billed Quantity                              Gaborone        Lobatse
(a)   For the first 2000 gal. or part thereof               R.0/50          R.0/50
(b)   For the next 4000 gal. or part thereof                R.0/75          L0/75
(c)   For the next, 9000 g,al..or part thereof              R.1/00          R.1/20
(d)   For all wator billed in excess of 15000 gals.         R.O/75          R.1/10
(e)   All water supplied for standpipe delivery to
the public, or to employees of special classes
of consurer as approved in each case by the
Water Autho 'ity                                      R.0/5Q         R&o/5C0
(f)   For all raw or partially treated water s .pplied
for agricul;ural purposes to consumers approved
in each case by the wv.ater Authority, froui the
Gaborone Wa:'. ks                               .     R0/30           N/A
(g)   For all raw or partially treated water
supplied fr n the liotwane w,orks                     R.0/50          N/A
1/-
-ater supply operations in Gaborone and Lobatse are conducted by the
Water Utilities Corporation.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BOTSWiNA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Francistown Town Council
Summarized Balance Sheet at December 31? 1972
Assets
1972
Current Assets
Cash                                                 111926
Fixed Deposit and Savings Accounts (Note 2)            98,,641
Dumela Land and Improvements for Resale               155,283
Fixed Assets
Property and Permanent Wbrks - at cost or           5   374
valuation
803,224
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Miscellaneous                        .406
Consumer Deposits                                     7,835
Bank Overdraft                                       32,818
41,159
Long Term Loans                                       177,419
Accumulated Fund                                      486,024
Special Funds (Note 2)                                 98,622
803,224



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Francistown Town ODuncil
Statement of Revenue and Expenses for 1972
Rands     % of ¶Tbtal Revenues
Revenues
Local Government Income Tax                     91,221            42
Property Rates                                  19,228             9
SarDlus on Utility Operations (Note 5)          42,072            19
School Fees                                     15,697             7
sanitation Services                             11,524             5
Other                                           38,734            18
Total Revenues                 218,i476           100
Expenses (Note 6)                                            % of Total 2cpenses
Finance and Gzneral Purposes                    39,361            21
1iucation                                       93.,889           49
Sanitations Streets and Roads, Fire
Services, Social Services, Public Health
and other Miscellaneous Epenses                 58,646            30
Total Expenses                 191,896            100
=
Sulrplus                                           26,580
Grants                        -5,791
Excess of Revenue over Expenditure
per FTC Accounts                                   32,371



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Balance Sheet
1.        Fixed assets are largely retained at cost without provision of
depreciation.
2.        The special funds are represented by cash on deposit or savings
accounts. They are apparently intended to meet various classes of capital
expenditures, but no specific plans appear to have been made for their use.
The practice of carrying a bank overdraft (R32,898) at the same time as
having funds in excess of the overdraft invested in savings and fixed deposit
accounts at interest rates much less than overdraft interest rates does not
seem sound. The auditors have recommended that the savings and deposit
accounts be used for FTC's cash needs.
Statement of Revenue and Expenditure
3.        Expenditures include (a) recurrent expenses; (b) debt service;
(c) capital expenditures; and (d) transfers to renewal funds but do not in-
clude depreciation. This classification of expenditure is common in municipal
accounting. Current revenues and expenditures are included on a cash basis.
4.        The surplus on utilities included in revenues is made up as
follows:
Water       Electricigy        Total
--R A N D- ---- -----
R.evenues                     30_334           1 49,112       179,446
Expenses
Loan charges                 8,112             1,530          9,642
Capital expenditures         7,667             3,299         10,966
Renewals fund                  -              10,000         10,000
Other                       39,935            66,831        106,766
5-5_? 71 4       jt_1,660      137,374
Surplus (Deficit)            (25,380)          (67,452)       (42,072)
As ;will be apparent from the notes under para. 3, "Surplus" is not
analogous to profit in commercial accounting.
5.        Transfers to renewal funds are represented by fixed deposit and
savings accounts. There appears to be no clear policy governing the dis-
position of these funds. The matter should receive the consideration of
the Town Treasurer when he is appointed.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Expenses shown in page 2 of this annex include debt service, capital
expenditures and transfers to capital and renewal funds as follows:
Capital
Debt        Capital        Expenditure &
Service    Expenditures    Renewal Funds    Total
Finance and general       2,418         3,795              -           6,213
purpose
Education                   -           9,257           7.000         16,25J
Sanitation and other        -          18,614           2,250         20,864
items grouped with
this expense
2,418        31,666           9,250         43,334
7.        The auditors report for FY 1972 contains a supplementary report
which includes comments relating to the improvement of accounting controls
over fixed assets and maintenance of rating records. FTC accepted the
auditors' recommendations and the Treasurer (to be appointed) will supervise
the implementation of the recommendations. In their report, the auditors
also note that improvements have been made in expenditure record maintenance.



ANTAC l'i
BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOW URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJErT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
IDA FY    QUarter                  Dlsbursement (as end of Quarter)
Actual                         Caiulative
R (000)    US$ ('000)         R (uOOOs PA  ('000)
1974      4              250           375               250           375
1975      1              230           345               480           720
2             230           345               710        i1,o65
3             230           345               940         1,410
4              225          337             1,165         1,747
1976      1              225           338             1,390         2,085
2              185          278             1,575         2,362
3              174          261             1,749         2,623
4               85          127             1,834         2,751
1977      1               65            97             1,899         1,848
2              59            89             1,958         2,937
3               25           37             1,983         2,975
4               17            26            2,000         3,000



ANNEX 12
Page 1
BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_Coparative Estimates of Costs of Developed Plots in
Botswana
1.        The following chart compares four different types of programs for
shelter provision with their respective estimated costs per plot. Almost
50% of the total cost of a completed core house on a serviced lot is
accounted for by the dwelling alone. The fully serviced lot itself, equipped
with a sanitary core enclosing a shower and w.c. would cost R890 (US$1,330),
nearly half of which is sewerage.
2.        Further reductions in costs are achieved if water and sewerage
facilities are communalized as in column (3) for which the total cost comes
to R573 (US$860) per lot. The difference is mainly accounted for by water
supply costs which are reduced by about 60%. Sewerage costs are reduced
only by 20% as the difference between providing individual connection and
one w.c. for every four lots is not very significant.



o O  +        
E   =  '  ',2Q1    410 )D° I  
tt  t0 G    )       oX t a,
Level~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~ of Serice  1        3     4 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P4         I    8tDwli   g Cor  4)us 
.... rg ;  _.
Sanitazy~~~~~~~~~- Coej  
.qever~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DI ame Wtrorn
Indiviunl Cnnecton w 
Dwelling: Core House
Somanitar Core.:
Sewerag: PedWaterborl =:s  ::e
Individlual Connection mf  ....... .,- 
WaterbWater                            svs< s
CommanalStnpp             7hU   
._  .       ,_.    _   .......    ..~~~~~~~.     ...   ¢..    
lighting:Iniv tiduali.on lnestioni--- 
Dainage:frcntnenis
Source: GraveluainRpr  o  h  eeeomn  fFacson   erayl7
ttSurforApaslaiso,Apic93enddrnitonPann
Grooavls,EOcthbrl7t



ANNEX 12
Page 3
2.        Detailed breakdown of costs for each of the four developed plots
or housing typed identified above are detailed below. All costs exclude
prices of land, surveys and administration.
(1)  Completed Core-House Unit
This has a 30m  core house unit with one room, cooking area
and a w.c./shower. The lot has individual connection to water-
borne sewerage and piled water supply with full reticulation.
Roads are bitumenized and provided with stormwater drainage.
Street lighting and overhead power distribution lines are provided.
Costs
(Rand)
Dwelling Unit (core-house)                              800
Sewerage                                                360
Water                                                    76
Roads and Drainage                                      100
Street and Lighting                                      70
Sub-Total                                          1,406
Engineering at 7% of Sub-Total                           98
Contingencies at 30% of Sub-Total                       422
Total                                                 1,926
US$ (equivalent)                                     (2,889)
(2)  Site and Services - Fully Developed
This has a sanitary core consisting of a w.c. and shower
provided on each lot. Roads are gravel surface and the rest
of the services are the same as for (1).



ANNEX 12
Page 4
Costs
(Rand)
Sanitary Unit (w.c./shower)                       137
Sewerage                                         360
Water                                              76
Roads and Drainage                                 55
Street Lighting                                  _70
Sub-Total                                     698
Engineering at 7% of Sub-Total                     49
Contingencies at 30X of Sub-Total                 209
Total                                            956
(US$ equivalent)                              (1,434)
(3)  Site and Services - With Comunal Services
This is similar to (2) but does not have individual sanitary
cores on each lot. Communal sanitary units with waterborne
sewerage and piped water supply are shared: 1 w.c. for every
4 lots and 1 water standpipe for evey 25 lots. Roads are gravel
and earth; street lighting is provided.
Costs
(Rand)
Sewerage:  1 w.c./4 dwellings                     255
Water:  1 standpipe/25 dwellings                   24
Roads and Drainage                                 55
Street Lighting                                    21
Sub-Total                                      355
Engineering at 7% of Sub-Total                     25
Contingencies at 30% of Sub-Total                 106
Total                                            486
(US$ equivalent)                                (729)



ANNEX 12
Page 5
(4)  Site and Services - Minimal
(Typical lot from proposed
site and services areas
L, S, V, W)
This has no waterborne sewerage but an aqua privy unit is
installed on each lot and a skeletal water reticulation
sufficient only for one standpipe for every 25 lots is
provided. Roads are gravel and earth. Street lighting is
provided.
Costs
(Rand)
Sewerage:  aqua privy installed                  120
Water:  1 standpipe/25 lots                       37
Roads and Drainage                                50
Street Lighting                                   25
Sub-Total                                      232
Engineering at 7% of Sub-Total                    16
Contingencies at 30% of Sub-Total                 70
Total                                            318
(US$ equivalent)                                (477)






ANNEX 13
Page 1
BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.
Monitoring Project Progress
In order to assist the Government and IDA to assess the progress
being made or problems arising during project implementation, the Project
Co-ordinator will be required to submit quarterly reports consisting of a
completed version of the table below and a brief evaluation note based on
that table.



ANNEX 13
page 2
P3anmed suantity ot  Actual Work   Sl2Jipgp   or Work    feasons for   Action Being
Work that Quart        Dane           Ahed of  ehdylo   Slippape          Takin
1.  Preconstruction
-Detailed engineering
-Tender preparation, letting and
review
-Awarding of Contracts
2. Primary Infrastructure
-Water
-Electricity
-Roads      _
-Sewerage
3.  Community Facilities
-Council and Ward offices
-School
-Health clinics
-Market
4.  Servicing of Industrial, CoMMercial
and High-Cost Residential Land
(i)    Comrercial Land-
-ha serviced
-ha leased
-ha on which construction
is underway
(ii)   Industrial Land
-ha serviced
-ha leased
-ha on which construction
is underway
(iii)  High-Cost Housing
-plots serviced
-plots leased
-plots with bousing umder
construction
5. Low-Cost Residential Development
(i)    Sites and Services
-plots serviced
-plots allocated
-number and amount of
materials loans given
-houses under construction
houses completed
(ii)   Traditional Plots
-plots serviced
-plots allocated
-houses under construction
-houses completed
(iii) Upgrading
-ha. upgraded



BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN REGIONAL TOWN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FRANCISTOWN TOWN COUNCIL ORGANIZATION PLAN
FRANCISTOWN TOWN COUNCIL A COMMITTEES
I
|        Toum Cberk's Olffke  
Admin stive                       Treawsry                       Education                     Health  Welfe                 Plnning& BBulding                  Town seie                        Stors  Division              Enginering Oivison
Housing Divisio                   Division                       Division                      Division                      Control iwDws                                                       Soe DivisionEni ig Divisio
- Legl Affairs                 -Utilitits Accounts              -Prifry School                 - SCial Servcs                 - Planning                     -buniripW<   ktpie                - Central Storns
- Regist                       -Geral Accounts                   Education                     - Public Health &              - Architecture/                  (includirq HwkingiStnt          - Livestock Pound               - Sanitation Services
- Ward Admninistrtion          -Revre  Accounts                                                 Family Welfre Clinic            Building Control               VsdeintNO                                                       - Streets & Roads
- Se-n_Hp Housing                                                                              - Heath Inspection                                            -Treditionel See Garden                                           - Mectanical WorkshoP
Agency                                                                                                                                                      - Camnegeries &aPrkss                                             - Buildir.sWorks
- Publicity Bureeu                                                                                                                                             Abttow                                                          - werow
- sw"wnkeg pow                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Electricity
- Fire S svioW
World Bank-7822






BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE BAR CHART
ITEM                                            YEAR          1973           1974          1975           1976          1977
DESCRIPTION OF WORK__                                      _      __         __         _       _      __
NO.                                          QUARTER   1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
1   CIVIL ENGINEERING WORKS                             _   _  _  _           _
2   BUILDING WORKS                                      _  -  _  _
3   ELECTRICAL WORKS                                          _    _  _
4   BUILDING MATERIALS                                                                                 =
5   SITE AND SERVICE SELF HELP HOUSING
TEHNICAL ASSISTANCE
6    IESUPERVISION
Design and preparation of contract docurnents
____ Tendering and adjudication
* _            Construction or supply
_u y um _   _Technical assistance and site supervision                                                           World Bank-7905(R)






-                      ------        N--- 
c -t -            -.                                      .;                                           -., .0 g_; ) z ° ;-'-'-'-*-'-'-'-'P,@,F' ' oZq ' = - ---
i .3..;.--U ...t  . -                                                                                        (  .i,S>8
Ii-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-t
o   -.                                                                               - ._.j                \
.4- '-                                                                                 --, A) 1  ,  S
t)3 ~    - '                                                                                                  'I3 r  :              
r 
-   . 1 1                                     E






rKo~o~NE ,,,- i  Z AMBA   '  '"
/ 7 /N ~~~s                                   ..........,.-.-.  --.
's.  ' -   t/                                                8 -   -'   ,   ' ' '   -,  ' BO ,ANAT' A-
1 CHOSE                                       9G \.            N 'RHR  REGN
NATIONAL. PARK   -       \
.......                                      ---      Ro4 ...e.   t;;.s..
CHOBE |DISTRICT   "~ '-                                     - ,, R,                                 ---
-19,                                                                                      .............>A
sS) \\                    -                         -   _,  _ . < 0A   .  . .  .. .....
W 7DI~ --0- '                                                                               i-0i  
RV    NGAMILAND
DITRC t                  GiwD/Me  Tumb       
~~~~D I S T R I C T ZeDw t /SHLRK . ................. 
i:2:0'                                  ,JE PHOEIX
ANGGLA ,-         M      FRCA                                   Not.
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ s , Kcsone ...... l67~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TX Gooo    27 -~ lt
Z  '              Froncestown  W~~~~.. ............H/vn  >tolsrapd ,>   eow   O UsLt/§ liI
2                                                                         MW.. Hx                                   E PS ON    ooopy  G_o 
G H Ae N Z I                                                                       cis                      O.D  ES LA./XvTett*t
| (  .r   -                  - .. 20°  To Goborones/(   27.    >             t           .        2f\.  -






IBRD 10513
--                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~         ~~TO BuIawaoyo  ANGO  ZMI  -.'-.  o
-     <                                            T     X             | /\    .J .NAM|r A  
.13
\=- - - - - - =\                                                                      k/ : .:ILAND
BTRS AANCA 1OTHO
Teb-uder-re- Mhun -n(n p do
EXiSTING LAND USE                                                
RESIDENTIAL                                To Gaberones                       -                                               p- t
=Permanent ,\
EL---=-=-=-==B Traditional                                                                                       B      - 
L          llndustrial & Storage                                                                      N.      \  
EZ  -    Government & Community   ROADS                                                                                        N > 
___                                                                  i~ \
H    Hospital                             Major, Surfaced                                          !) 
PS    Primary School             ---Mojor, Unsurfaced                                               I    
SS    Secondary School                     Minor, Surfaced                                           I \ 
E TlIZCommerci.                      ---Minor, Unsurfaced >_\
EZZ IOpen Space                      -.-      Roilwoy -Railwa
O               1/2               1 
Miles                                                        $
,  .        ~~To Gaberones
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UY17






IBRD 10514
JULY 1973
BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN
PROPOSED URBAN STRUCTURE PLANNING
RESIDENTIAL                                         OPEN SPACE
='o,H,gh Cost   |             |Industrial & Storage    |    ,.-|General
/=   Med,um  Cost         .      Central Business           Local
/ Low Cost    .    SCHOOLS.               ROADS
Site -Sersice       = Pr,n,ary, proposed  -        Primary
=      Traditional          SS   Secondary, ex,shng ----Pr,mary Reserve
TT   Teacher Trainmng,  -      Secondary                               N
existg
To Nob.
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~** ~ ~    ~          ~          ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         B0TS                   
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Or. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ AO
3  I  _  00    O~~~xxx,r5~~flooI
s s  PS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oooe
~~~~~~~~~~ " ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     HSIA






tko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
bO                                                                                                                                                                                                                             El  \ f1ih]x{t  
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _ _ _ _ _ _                                     I t r~~~~~~;    _   _                            _ _  __t  i
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _  _ _  _  _ __  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  __  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  __  _ _  _  _ _  _  __L i_         _  _ _  _  _ __                                                                             _ _                             _  _ _  _



