Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  4340
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA: FRANCISTOWN URBAN PROJECT
(CREDIT 471-BT)
February 25, 1983
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA: FRANCISTOWN URBAN PROJECT
(CREDIT 471-BT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .......................................................                                         i
Basic  Data  Sheet ..............................................                                     ii
Highlights............................................                                                 iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.     INTRODUCTION  ............................................                                       1
A.     Sector  Background  ..................................                                   1
B.     The  Region  and  Francistown  .........................                                 2
C.     Objectives  and  Achievements  ........................                                  3
II.   PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL ................                                                 6
A.     Project  Suitability  ................................                                   6
B.     Project  Composition  and  Size  .......................                                 7
C.     Project  Description  and  Affordability  ....                        ..........         9
III.      IMPLEMENTATION                .....................           .....................            10
A.     Effectiveness  and  Startup  ..........................                                 10
B.     Project  Components  .................................                                  13
C.     Costs  ..............................................                                   15
D.     Disbursements  ......................................                                   16
E.    Procurement  ........................................                                    17
F.     Physical  Progress  ..................................                                  20
G.     Covenants  ..........................................                                   20
h.     Operating  Performance  ..............................                                  22
IV.    ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  .............................                                     24
A.     Institutional  Performance  and  Development  ....                         ......       24
B.   FTC's Financial Performance and Project
Replicability  ....................................                                 31
V.     BENEFITS  AND  BENEFICIARIES  ..............................                                   37
A.     Benefits  ...........................................                                   37
B.     Profile  of  Francistown  Urban  Project  Beneficiaries  .                              39
C.     Rate  of  Return  .....................................                                 40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
VI.   CONCLUSIONS .................       ,      .     .........    41
A.   Lessons Learned ....................................      41
B.   The Role of the Bank ...............................      44
TABLES
4.1 Cost Recovery and Pricing
4.2 FTC Recurrent Income and Expenditure
5A  Distribution of Household Income
CHARTS
Figure 3A. Schedule of Disbursements
Figure 3B. Implementation Schedule of Procurement
and Construction Works
ANNEXES
1.  Breakdown of Total Project Costs
2.  FTC Consolidated Balance Sheet:  1972-1980
3.  Temporary Occupancy Permit
4.   Interviews with Project Beneficiaries
5.   Benefit and Cost Streams for Rate of Return
6.  Plot Allocations
7.   Country Exchange Rates
PHOTOGRAPHS
This report was prepared by Jeffrey Racki, with assistance from Judy
O'Connor, Jane Kozlowski and Heinz Hechtenberg. Photographs by John Courtney.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA: Francistown Urban Project
(Credit 471-BT)
PREFACE
Credit 471-BT for the Francistown Urban Project was signed in May
1974. The Credit, for $3.0 million, was fully disbursed in December 1979.
During implementation, the project's content was revised and the closing
date was postponed.
This report consists of a Project Completion Report (PCR)
prepared by the East and West AFrica Division of the Urban Projects
Department. The PCR is based on a review of files and documents,
interviews with Bank and Borrower staff, and a visit to Botswana in
December 1980.
The PCR has been sent to the Borrower for comments; however, none
have been received.



BOTSWANA: FRANCISTOWN URBAN PROJECT
(Credit 471-BT)
Project Completion Report Basic Data Sheet
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal          Actual or
Item                                  Expectation      Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                    4.36                4.5
Underrun or Overrun (x)                                               +3%
Loan/Credit Amount (US$ million)                                        3.0
Disbursed                                            -                3.0
Cancelled
Repaid to
Outstanding to                                       -                  -
Date Physical Components Completed                 3/31/78            09/79
Proportion Completed by Above Date (%)                                  100
Proportion of Time Underrun or Overrun (%)             -              37.5% 1/
Financial Performance                               Fair                Fair
Institutional Performance                           Good                Fair
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                      Actual or
Item                         Plan    Revisions         Estimated Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable    -                               9/13/71
Government's Application                                               2/  /72
Negotiations                            /  I       /  /                2/  /74
Board Approval                          /  /       /  /                4/16/74
Loan/Credit Agreement Date              /  /       /  /                5/09/74
Effectiveness Date                        7 /      7/T/               10/13/74
Closing Date                          12/31/78  12/31/79              12/31/79
Borrower                                        Government of Republic
of Botswana
Executing Agency                                Ministry of Local Government
and Lands
Fiscal Year of Borrower                         April 1 to March 31
Follow-on Project Name                           Second Urban Project
Loan Number                                    1584-BT
.Amount (US$ million)                          8.0 m
Loan/Credit Agreement Date (Signing Date)   9/11/78
1/   A substantial amount of overrun is due to inclusion of additional works
financed out of approximately $0.5 million equivalent savings resulting
from the Rand devaluation in 1976.



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Item              Month/Year  No. of weeks  No. of persons  Staffweeks  Date of Report
Reconnaissance   Feb. 1972           .4              2                .8         3/22/72
Identification   Feb. 1972          1.0              1              1.0          3/28/72
Pre-appraisal    Nov. 1972          1.0              2              2.0         12/12/72
Appraisal         April 1973        2.0              4              8.0          3/7/74
Post-Appraisal   Sept. 1973         1.0              3              3.0          3/7/79
Total                            4.4                             11.8
Supervision I    Sept. 1974         1.0              3              3.0          9/30/74
II   Oct. 1974          .5              2              1.0         11/19/74
III  April 1975        1.0              3              3.0          4/28/75
IV   Sept. 1975       2.0               3              6.0         10/20/75
V    Feb. 1976         1.5              2              3.0          2/27/76
VI   June 1976         1.5              2              3.0          7/16/76
VII  Jan. 1977         2.0              2              4.0          3/01/77
VIII July 1977         2.0              2              4.0          7/20/77
IX   May 1978           .5              1               .5          6/15/78
X    Jan. 1979         1.0              4              4.0          3/08/79
XI   Sept. 1979        1.0              2              2.0         10/26/79
XII  Feb. 1980         1.5              2              3.0          4/04/80
XIII July 1980         2.0              2              4.0          8/15/80
Total                           16.0                             40.5
This Project Completion Report is based on information in Appraisal Report
No. 290a-BT, as well as Supervision, Quarterly and Consultant reports, official
project correspondence files, discussions with former and present Bank staff and
Government officials, and field mission findings.



I



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA: Francistown Urban Project
(Credit 471-BT)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.        The Francistown Urban Project was one of the first Bank lending
operations in the Urban Sector, and included provision of infrastructure
for squatter upgrading, as well as the development of site and service
plots, and industrial and commercial areas. Community facilities and
off-site infrastructure were also provided.
2.        Several broad objectives relating to an urban strategy for
Botswana formed the background for the project. These objectives included
the following: the development of effective plans for orderly growth; the
preparation of an urban investment program that would be simple, practical
and low cost and would not require subsidies; the development of new
standards that would be designed to benefit and be affordable to the lowest
income sectors in the towns, while introducing immediate improvements in
the living and public health conditions; the introduction of project
components that would redress past imbalances in resource allocation
between income and population groups; and the strengthening of Government's
capacity to execute other such projects.
3.        The project is generally considered to have been a turning point
in urban policy in Botswana. The success of the project, and the widely
perceived benefits (and resultant credibility) of this approach to urban
development have been decisive in the launching, by Government, of
comprehensive urban policies and programs throughout the country. These
benefits, while widespread, are difficult to quantify. The principal
direct benefits occurred through improvement to housing conditions and the
provision of related services. Prior to the project 80% of the popuation
depended on water from the river or, in the dry season, shallow wells dug
in the riverbed. Regarding sanitation, there was virtually no sewerage
disposal system available to the majority of the population. Following the
project, almost all households are within five minutes of a standpipe, and
a system of improved pit latrines is now widely in use. While even more
difficult to quantify, having primary schools, community halls, and clinics
available in the neighborhoods has clearly enhanced the quality of life.



v
4.        The following points may be of particular interest:
the importance of realistic estimates of timing required for
implementation, particularly regarding startup and the completion
of detailed design and engineering (PCR, paras. 3.02-3.04;
6.03-6.05).
the difficulties of establishing both the appropriate
institutional capacities for implementing new policies, as well
as the associated requirements for preparing , implementing and
managing urban projects. This was particularly evident regarding
the requirements (incluaing the establishment of new departments
within the local authority) being placed on relatively weak, local
authorities (PCR, paras. 4.10-4.12; 6.09).
the constraints experienced with implementing policies which
hinged on the introduction of untested enabling legislation. and
procedures. This resulted, in particular, in difficulties with
full recovery of costs (while charges have been increased to full
economic rates, problems with collection have resulted in high
arrearage rates), and revisions to the original legislation. are
still continuing (PCR, paras. 4.16-4.19, 4.2; 6.06, 6.07).



BOTSWANA
Credit 471-BT
Francistown Urban Project
Completion Report
I. INTRODUCTION
Sector Background
1.01      The Francistown Urban Project, for which an IDA credit of US$3.0
million (Credit 471-51) was approved on May 9, 1974 is the first completed
Bank Group urban development operation. At the time of appraisal five urban
areas in Botswana were classified as towns (Lobatse, Gaborone, Francistown,
Selebi-Phikwe and Orapa), although there were several villages with substan-
tially larger populations than some of the towns. Compared to the villages,
the towns were relatively diverse economically, with more developed industrial
and commercial sectors. Three of the towns were new--two (Selebi-Phikwe and
Orapa) had been built in response to recent mineral discoveries, the third
(Gaborone) was created at independence to serve as the new capital.
1.02      Although less than 10% of the country's population of 640,000 (as
estimated at appraisal) lived in towns, urban growth rates of 11% and more
were occurring and the urban population was expected to double to some 123,000
in under seven years. In addition, this growth in population had outstripped
the wage employment growth rate of about 7%. Unemployment was increasing and
a large town population unable to afford the conventional services being pro-
vided at that time was emerging.
1.03      Given that most Batswana live in the rural areas, the Government's
National Development Plan focused on rural development. However, complemen-
tary urban programs were envisaged by Government, primarily to anticipate and
therefore avoid the types of problems confronting other towns and cities in
East Africa. Previously, the population in the towns had been too small to
warrant government involvement in the urban sector. Whatever housing activity
had taken place had been done mainly by the private sector. Most of it was
directed to upper- and middle-income families--companies provided housing
for their employees (generally senior and middle level) and the Botswana
Housing Corporation built a limited number of units on a rental basis for
moderate/middle-income families. In Francistown, Tati Company's control of
most of the land (para. 1.07) had limited government activity in the sector.
The Francistown Urban Project was therefore the Botswana Government's
first opportunity to implement a new approach to urban development in the
country with emphasis on simple, low-cost, technically appropriate standards
for urban infrastructure.



1.04      The closing date of the project was initially set at December 31,
1978 but, as a result of the devaluation of the Rand during project implemen-
tation, additional resources became available, allowing the original program
to be expanded (para. 3.07). Consequently the closing date was postponed to
December 31, 1979. In May 1978, the Bank appraised the Second Urban Project,
which essentially built on the experience of the first further extending the
services and facilities in Francistown and introducing similar components into
Selebi-Phikwe.
The Region and Francistown
1.05      In the early 1970's, mining development in Northern Botswana had
resulted in the region becoming the focus of major export oriented economic
activity. At that time over half of the country's population lived in the
North. The Bank Group was already participating in strengthening the regional
economy of the area through assistance for the Shashe Infrastructure Project
(Loan 776-BT) and the Francistown-Maun Road (IDA Credit 63). The proposed
urban project was therefore to be a complementary component of this regional
effort, designed to help establish a viable urban center to serve the North
and to provide a means whereby the secondary benefits of these projects
may reach the lowest income Batswana. Consequently, it was expected that
Francistown, Botswana's largest town (with a population of 22,000 at apprais-
al), and the only town in the North apart from the then newly created Selebi-
Phikwe, would develop into an important service locus.
1.06      Although this trend continues today, growth has been slower than
initially anticipated. In part, this can be attributed to the impact of
the war in Zimbabwe. The mining sector in the north has also expanded less
rapidly than originally planned. However, despite the slower growth rate
in the region (and in Francistown), the scale of the project proved appro-
priate--primarily because of the conservative demand projections established
at appraisal (paras. 2.10 to 2.15).
1.07      Located on the single rail line in the country, and equipped with an
airport, Francistown had developed as a communications and commercial center,
and was expected to become the staging point for the projected development of
the region. The majority of the town's inhabitants had benefited little from
whatever development had occurred up to then. The growth of the town had in
the main been strictly segregated. Nearly 80% of the inhabitants, mostly
black Batswana, lived in mud huts almost entirely without water, sewerage,
or community facilities, on the west side of the Tati River. The other
20%, mostly well off white families, lived on the better-served east side.
Francistown had been, for most of its history, a company town with the major
share of land being owned by a South African concern - the Tati Company. It
was only immediately prior to IDA involvement in the urban sector that the
Government had completed major land and mineral rights purchases from the
Tati Company, including most of the undeveloped land in the municipal area of
Francistown.



- 3 -
1.08      Although the annual per capita income in Francistown in 1970 was
estimated at US$229, this was strongly influenced by the high-income levels
of the non-Batswana population (about $15,000/annum per household). The per
capita annual incomes of most Batswana in Francistown was more in the order
of $75.
Objectives and Achievements
1.09      At the time of IDA involvement in identification and preparation
of the Francistown Urban Project, several broad objectives relating to an
urban strategy for Botswana were being established by the Government. These
objectives, which continued to evolve during implementation, included the
following:
(a)  the development of effective plans for orderly urban growth;
(b)  the preparation of an urban investment program that would be
simple, practical and low-cost and would not require
subsidies. Any development strategy for the urban sector
was therefore to be seen in the context of the rural
priorities established by Government in their National
Development Plan, and as such was to be financially self-
sufficient;
(c)  the development of new standards that would be designed to
benefit and be affordable to the lowest income sectors in the
towns, while introducing immediate improvements in the living
and public health conditions of the squatter population and of
new urban migrants;
(d)  the introduction of project components that would redress past
imbalances in resource allocation between income and population
groups, and would promote non-racial development in the town;
(e)  the strengthening of Government's capacity to execute other
such projects;
(f)  the provision of a focal center for regional development with
the maximum public investment essential for commercial and
industrial development, thereby attracting job-creating
investments by the private sector.
1.10      The project is generally considered to have been a turning point
in urban policy in Botswana.  The success of the project, and the widely
perceived benefits (and resultant credibility) of this approach to urban
development, have been decisive in the launching, by Government, of compre-
hensive urban policies and programs throughout the country.
1.11      Significant progress has therefore been made towards meeting the
objectives outlined above, most notably with regard to the following:



- 4 -
(a) The successful establishment of standards appropriate to
low-cost solutions to urban infrastructure and shelter
development. These standards were relatively easily
implemented and have proven functionally satisfactory,
as well as having broad market acceptability. The adop-
tion of these standards enabled a shift to take place
in the allocation of resources within the urban sector.
Consequently, a substantial proportion of low-income
households were included in the program. This shift also
contributed to the integration of existing settlements and
new low-income areas into the physical fabric of Francistown
and has led to the promotion of orderly, non-racial urban
growth. In addition, the lower unit costs resulting from
the revised standards facilitated a better spread of
resources among a larger number of households (over 50% of
the population of Francistown benefited directly from the
project).
(b) The phased introduction of project replicability through
recovery of capital as well as operating and maintenance
costs. To date progress on this objective has been slow.
From a policy point of view considerable progress has been
made. Government has moved from partial recovery of oper-
ating and maintenance costs, as specified at appraisal,
towards a program requiring full recovery of all costs by
the end of this financial year. However the collections
of payments from project beneficiaries have proven to be
a serious problem (para. 4.16). Nevertheless substantial
improvements, based on implementation experience, have
gradually been introduced, and it is expected that the
results of these efforts will shortly become apparent.
What has been clearly demonstrated by the experience is
that the time cycle of a project as compared to those of
major legislative changes (which in turn necessitate the
development of associated procedures and administrative
machinery) are very different. Consequently, expectations,
at appraisal of satisfactory levels of cost recovery, syn-
chronized with plot occupation by beneficiaries, have
proven unrealistic (paras. 6.06 and 6.07). Nevertheless,
the emphasis placed on this aspect of the project in the
appraisal report and during subsequent supervision missions
has been important in providing the stimulus to develop
the legislation necessary for improving the effectiveness
of the urban program.
(c) The introduction of revisions in legislation and appropriate
new tenure instruments. This has been an iterative process,
reflecting the evolutionary nature of institutional develop-
ment within the context of project implementation experiences
(para. 4.23). As a result, new project execution capabilities
have been established both at central and local levels (the
Urban Affairs Division and the SHHAs; paras. 4.05 and 4.11).



- 5 -
The SHHA has played a key role in community participation,
plot allocation and payment collection. However, it con-
tinues to require technical assistance (para. 4.12). An
additional, persistent problem has been the role of the
SHHA relative to other departments within the Town Council.
At times the SHHA assumed functions for the project areas
that were more properly in the domain of the other depart-
ments. One of the consequences of this has been inadequate
attention (an issue not fully defined at appraisal) to the
needs of, in particular, the Treasurer's and City Engineer's
Departments--thus affecting accounting and maintenance
problems. Although the overall organizational structure
for project implementation, as well as policy making, has
worked reasonably well, the respective roles of the
central and local authorities require continuing atten-
tion, particularly the extent to which the financial and
administrative capacities of the Town Councils need
further strengthening. It is important to note that
foreign experts have been numerous and influential in
Botswana in the urban sector. Many of the clearly income-
redistributive policies, attempts at progressive taxation,
and efforts to avoid urban subsidies have been advocated
by expatriate advisors working within government service
or by the aid agencies themselves. Although Batswana
have increasingly been involved in the process, there
is a shortage of trained and experienced Batswana in
all urban-related disciplines, particularly in tech-
nical specializations at central and local levels. This
shortage is under discussion in the context of the Bank's
ongoing policy dialogue with Government and may well be
addressed in a Bank financed third urban project.
(d) Improvements in health and living conditions, and the creation
of employment opportunities. These have proven more difficult
to measure, particularly as initial base line studies were
not carried out. However, it is clear that a large proportion
of the town's population received direct shelter benefits,
together with neighborhood community facilities (primary
schools and health clinics) that have substantially improved
living conditions. In addition, improvements in sanitation,
in a situation where virtually no prior system existed for
most of the households, must have directly affected health
conditions, something that is supported by observations by
local officials. Although not documented, evidence also
suggested that the construction program (both formal and
self-help) generated considerable employment, and appears
to have established small-scale contractors operating pri-
marily in the self-help market. The ex post-economic rate
of return, based on imputed rental values, appears satis-
factory (paras. 5.12 to 5.14).



- 6 -
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01      Progress with project identification and preparation can be broadly
divided into two phases. The first related to reconnaissance and ear:Ly iden-
tification missions which had resulted in considerable Bank caution regarding
the appropriateness of a Bank Group financed urban project in Botswana. Once
the initial concerns had been overcome, the phase which followed was charac-
terized by vigorous but constructive debate between IDA and governmenl: offi-
cials during project preparation, appraisal and negotiation as to the viabil-
ity of different project components as well as the size of the project and,
therefore, the amount of the credit.
A. Project Suitability
2.02      Following early reconnaissance missions in 1971, IDA staff had
initially concluded that a Bank financed urban project in Botswana was
inappropriate at that stage. The primary reason related to considerations of
scale. It was felt that urbanization in Botswana did not constitute the same
magnitude of problem being experienced in most other parts of Africa, as the
urban population in Botswana was quite small. Moreover, given the small size
of the towns and the limited capacity of the public sector for project imple-
mentation, it was felt the loan envisaged would not warrant the relatlively
high costs of project preparation and supervision. Supporting these reserva-
tions was the mission's opinion that the standards proposed by Governnment
could be afforded by only a small proportion of the population and moreover
that the consultants' growth projections (para. 2.07) for Francistown were
exaggerated, further reducing the number of potential project beneficiaries.
2.03      Some of this caution related essentially to concerns internal to
the Bank and some can in part be attributed to the fact that the project was
one of the first to be proposed under the then newly established Transporta-
tion and Urban Projects Department.  Furthermore the project was likely to
include, as major components, relatively untested shelter strategies.
2.04      Nevertheless, for the following reasons, there was strong support
within the Bank to move forward with the project (and government officials
also proved effective spokesmen). It was argued that rather than compare
Botswana to the rest of Africa, urbanization should be seen in the context
of a small country experiencing very rapid urban growth rates, particularly
as the potential migration would be from the impoverished surrounding areas
into a town which was already in poor condition. In addition to the f.inan-
cial and administrative impact of this movement, Francistown had been tar-
geted by Government to serve as the center in the North-East for expansion
of industrial and other economic activities, particularly in the light: of
the projected mining activities in the region.



2.05      It was also argued that the small size (initially considered to
involve a total project cost of $1.0 million at most) of the project resulting
from the limited demand was underestimated. It was felt that the available
data on projected growth allowed sufficient flexibility in interpretation to
also provide a good case for adequate demand for a project. Moreover, if the
project components and standards were carefully reviewed and revised to more
modest levels the demand base could be even further broadened. Consequently,
it seemed that a project requiring a credit of between $2.0-4.0 million was
possible and, as a pilot effort, worthwhile.
2.06      Having overcome these initial concerns the Bank moved forward with
project preparation. In retrospect the caution shown, while understandable,
proved to be unfounded. Not only was there sufficient demand, but it soon
became apparent that a second, substantially larger project including both
Francistown and Selebi-Phikwe was desirable. Furthermore, the untested
shelter strategies, in terms of cost-effectiveness, appropriateness to
limited resources, and extent of demand have proven so successful that they
have become the cornerstone of government development strategies in subsequent
urban programs (para. 1.10)
B. Project Composition and Size
2.07      Anticipating rapid expansion of Francistown over the ten years to
1980, the Government had engaged the British firm of Hugh Wilson and Lewis
Womersley, Architects and Town Planners, to prepare a master plan for
Francistown's development.   Specifically, their objectives were to:
(a) accommodate the anticipated future expansion of the town's
population;
(b) integrate squatter areas into the overall town fabric; and
(c) through resettlement and planned future development, achieve
integrated racial development in Francistown.
2.08      The consultants report, Francistown Proposals, presented to Govern-
ment in October 1970, recommended two alternative strategies (A and B) for
the town's development. Strategy A called for a shift in the central business
district across the river; strategy B called for expanding the existing
center. Initially there was substantial support for the "fresh start" idea
represented by A. However the financial implications of the investment
requirements of a new center pursuaded Government to adopt B.
2.09      Francistown Proposals recommended a two-stage investment program;
Stage I to cover the period up to 1976 and Stage II the period thereafter to
1980. In order to initiate construction while the feasibility of the rest of
the program was still under study, Stage I itself was further divided into two
phases--the Overseas Development Agency (ODA), who had financed the planning



- 8 -
study would also finance Phase I (to be implemented during 1973 and 1974) at a
cost of US$1.1 million. It would provide sewage ponds and sewers to serve
the existing industrial and commercial areas, 316 conventional housing units
for medium/low-income groups, 100 sites and services plots, and 650 tradi-
tional housing plots. Phase II (1974-1976), costing some US$4.4 million,
constituted the proposed IDA project of primary and secondary infrastructure,
upgrading, a sites and services scheme, traditional housing plots, conmunity
facilities, and technical assistance.
2.10      A continuing debate between IDA and government officials during
preparation and appraisal centered around the type and size of components
to be included. The government proposals favored a larger package with
some emphasis on fully serviced commercial and industrial plots and high cost
residential plots, as well as improvements to the central business district.
Also proposed were sites and services with building materials loans and fairly
substantial community facilities. At that stage Government anticipated the
integration of squatter residents into the town through a process of gradual
demolition and relocation linked to progress with the proposed program for
creating new shelter opportunities.
2.11      The Association was therefore again confronted with its initial
concerns that: (i) projected growth was over-estimated and the demand for
commercial, industrial and high-cost residential plots would be considerably
less than the supply; (ii) the proposals were not addressing sufficiently the
major areas of demand (existing and projected) represented by the lower income
families, having in particular excluded the upgrading of existing squatter
areas and the provision of plots for traditional housing; and (iii) too many
community facilities are being proposed.
2.12      Implicit in these concerns were issues of standards and affcrdabil-
ity and underlying the whole discussions were the stated objectives of
Government of rural priorities requiring that the towns be self-sufficient in
order to avoid subsidies to the urban sector. The importance of the recovery
of the costs of the proposed development was therefore seen as central to the
debate on standards, who the beneficiaries would be, what types of shelter
options should be provided, and in what quantities.
2.13      By appraisal in April 1973, project components were firmed up and
evaluated by the mission. Although strong and often differing views had been
held by IDA and government officials, these professional discussions eventually
led to agreement and to the development of mutual confidence and cooperation
that characterized subsequent implementation, as well as preparation of the
Second Urban Project. The components agreed on were strongly oriented to low-
standard, low-cost, affordable solutions, minimizing relocation of families,
and were targeted to the lower income groups where the major portion of urban
growth was occurring. Some squatter upgrading was also included. It was
agreed that some of the more expensive components, particularly some of the
community facilities, would be postponed to a future phase. For those com-
munity facilities included in the project, grants by Central Government were



to be made to the Town Council to share the financial burden. This was con-
sonant with standard government practice in financing community facilities.
2.14      As it turned out, the concerns that there would be difficulties
with cost recovery were well founded but for different reasons. Evidence
indicates that poor collections were not attributable to problems of afforda-
bility. Rather, delinquencies can be explained by: past practices where
little action was taken against defaulters; absence of suitable legislation
dealing with tenure and cost recovery; inadequate instruments and procedures
for moving against defaulters; and limited institutional capacity for managing
collections (para. 4.14).
2.15      Following the appraisal, the mission prepared its report in which it
proposed a Credit of $2.0 million, and produced an issues paper which required
decisions on: (a) IDA contributions to the project costs; (b) arrangements
for on-lending to the project entity; and (c) the terms of land acquisition
from the Tati Company. At the wrap-up meetings of the appraisal mission, Gov-
ernment reacted strongly to the size of the project, suggesting that the
reduction from a credit of $4.0 million was tailored to satisfy budgeting
procedures internal to the Association's program and was not really a reflec-
tion of the optimum project size for Francistown. The Association's response
was that, while internal programming constraints might have played a role,
the overriding reasons concerned implementation capacities. Following return
of the mission to Headquarters, and discussions occasioned by the Issues Paper,
a compromise on a credit of $3.0 million was reached.
2.16      Association officials still felt that the level of project component
design was inadequate and that therefore cost projections were relatively un-
reliable. Negotiations and Board presentations were consequently delayed
while more detailed studies were undertaken by consultants and a post-appraisal
mission was sent out in September 1973. Government officials were concerned
that these delays were unnecessary and blamed subsequent startup delays and
cost over-runs on the time lost. While these reasons probably did contribute
to higher costs, the magnitude of the over-runs suggest that even the added
precautions of obtaining better design information were insufficient (para.
3.05). Clearly the mid-project devaluation of the Rand played a significant
role in off-setting serious cost increases (para. 3.07) that would have other-
wise hampered implementation of the project.
C. Project Description and Affordability
2.17      The project was approved by the IDA Board in April 1974.  The main
shelter components were: (i) upgrading of existing squatter areas affecting
about 1000 households. No building materials loans were included. Certifi-
cates of Rights, ensuring secure tenure, were to be issued. (ii) Provision
of 1000 settlement plots for traditional housing, comprising minimum service
levels. Here again, Certificates of Rights were to be issued, but no building



- 10 -
materials loans were to be given. (iii) Provision of 800 sites and services
plots for which building materials loans would be made available. Secure
tenure was to be given through issuance of Certificates of Rights. The other
project components included community facilities, servicing of areas for
industrial and commercial plots, servicing of 25 plots for high-cost residen-
tial settlement, improvement to electricity distribution, additions to the
road network, and the installation of water pumps and mains.
2.18      In order to accommodate even the poorest sections of the population
and ensure affordability, the three types of shelter provisions offered under
the project were oriented to different income groups: (i) Upgrading Areas:
the problem was dealing with an established settlement in which incomes were
very low but ranged up to about R 1000 per annum. Here standards were to
comprise gravel access and earth internal roads, and one water standpipe for
every 25 families. There was to be no charge for the capital costs of the
improvements, but a service levy for maintenance, water supply and street
lighting was to be charged (although not at an economic rate); (ii) Settlement
Plots: these were intended as new supply opportunities for families with
lowest incomes (under R 300 per annum) and comprised a pegged plot in an area
designated for constructing rondavels of traditional materials, namely mud and
thatch. Earth access and internal roads were provided together with street
lighting and one water standpipe for 80 families. Again no capital costs were
allocated for recovery from the beneficiaries but a service levy was to be
charged; (iii) Sites and Services: these were intended for families with
incomes between R 300 and R 1000 per month. 1/ Standards of infrastructure
included standpipes at one per 25 families, gravel access and earth internal
roads and street lighting. Families were to be required to build simple
houses of more permanent materials than the mud and thatch, hence the
materials loans. Included therefore was technical assistance in building
a core unit. Beneficiaries were expected to pay the capital costs of the
site improvements as well as the building materials loans in monthly install-
ments. The service levy was also to be applied.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness and Startup
3.01      Following Board approvaI, GOB formalized the arrangements to be
entered into between it and FTC in June 1974 for the carrying out by FTC of
its obligations as refered to in the Credit Agreement, thus satisfying the
only condition of effectiveness. However, Government's legal opinion was
1/   This was subsequently raised to R 1500 then R 2400 and finally EL 3500.



- 11 -
not given to IDA until the beginning of September, establishing effectiveness
on October 4, 1974, about six months after Board approval. Within one month
of effectiveness the first contracts had been awarded, and construction
initiated soon thereafter. The timely commencement of construction of roads
and water was important because (i) they preceeded and could therefore
facilitate construction of many of the other components, and (ii) they were
the main elements of the construction program requiring completion in order
for plot occupation to occur. Given the relatively quick startup of civil
works it was possible for early plot allocation procedures to begin--an
important factor for an effective cost recovery program (however other con-
straints, described in para. 4.16, resulted in cost recovery difficulties).
3.02      Nonetheless startup had been delayed about six months beyond
appraisal estimates as a result of effectiveness not being established on
time. The delays seem to be primarily attributable to over-optimistic
scheduling estimates at appraisal. This might have been the result, in part,
of the delays in presentation of the project to the Board once appraisal had
been completed (para. 2.16), without adequate subsequent revisions to the
implementation schedule being undertaken. More vigorous follow-up by IDA
officials to assist Government in completing what was essentially a tech-
nicality--Government's legal opinion--might also have substantially reduced
the delays.
3.03      However, significant delays, generally of 18 months or more, were
experienced with almost all the other contracts, and virtually all major
delays in implementation can be traced to problems with startup. The primary
constraint was the lack of decisive action in initiating final design and
tender documents, as well as delays by the consultants in completing the
detailed design and bidding documents. The reasons for this appear to be that
the relatively remote location of Francistown and the limited resources in the
town made it difficult to find qualified consultants and get timely, first
priority service from them. More frequent supervision by IDA during this
period might have assisted this process.
3.04      It is also apparent that in two instances, with regard to major
contracts (community facilities and electrical), substantial delays resulted
from design standards that were too high, requiring in one case (electrical)
a lengthy series of revisions in design. Careful monitoring by project man-
agement of progress with design and levels of standards being applied was
required. In order for this to have been more effective, a predetermined
timetable of review meetings tied to a schedule of completion of design
may have ensured better control over progress and quality of design work.
Close supervision of this monitoring by IDA officials would also have been
of assistance.



- 12 -
Table 3.T :  PROJECT CO-POmNFrTS
Column I                                          Column 2                    Column 3
After negotiations                            After Revisions to Offset
Cost Increases              At ro,plet4on
(Before Devaluation)           (After Devaluation)
Components                        Y Financing   Components   7 Financing          Components  7Z Financng
GOB     IDA                 COB 3/  IDA                     COB 2/ IDA
TRADITIONAL        1000 plots (+ 375m /plot)          29       71   Unchanged      Unchanged         Unchanged   Unchanged
hOUSINC            Water - 1 standpipe/80 plots       29       71   Unchanged1,   Unchanged          Unchanged1,/ UnchanRed
Sewerage - aqua privies            29      71   Excluded -         N/A            Excluded-       N/A
Electricity - security
lighting                         29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged          Unchanged   Unchanged
Circulation - earth roads          29      71   Unchanged       Unchanged         Unchanged   Unchanged
UPGRADING          1000 households                    29       71   Unchanged      UnchanRed         project      UnchanRed
area and
population
served ex-
panded
Water - 1 standpipe/25 plots       29       71   Unchanged1/   Unchanged          Unchanged   Unchanged
Sewerage - aqua privies            29      71   Excluded-           N/A           Unchanged   Unchanged
Electricity - security
lighting                         29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged          Unchanged   Unchanged
Circulation - gravel access
roads  arth internal roads       29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged          Unchanged   Unchanged
SITES AND         800 plota (+ 375m /plot)            29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged          addititnal  Unchanged
SERVICES                                                                                             site with
150-200
mwre plots
included
Water - 1 standpipe/25 plots       29       71   Unchanged,/   Unchanged          Unchanged   Unchanged
Sewerage - aqua privies            29      71   Excluded-           N/A           Unchanged   Unchanged
Electricity - security
lighting                         29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged          Unchanged   Unchanged
Circulation - gravel access
roads earth internal roads       29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged         Unchanged   Unchanged
MATERIALS LOAN    800 loan  (av. size R200            29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged          expanded    Unchanged
(S&S only)                                                                                          to include
additional
150-20()
PREPARATION OF    Water - individual Connections  lD0r        -    Unchanged "/neanged               Unc½ane      79    71
INDUSTRIkI.       Seweraze - vatarborne (ind cour.)1005       -    Unchanged      Unchanged         Unchanned   29    71
(11 ha)           Electricity - indiv. connection 100-        -    Unchanged      Unchanged         Unchanged   29    71
COMM4ERCIAL        Circulation - gravel access
(5 ha)  i           and intarnal roads              100-      -    Unchanged      UnchanRed         Unchanged   29    71
IESIDENTIALI
(25 plts)
PRIMARY           Water - boreholes, pumps,          100      -    Unchanged      Unchanged         UnchanZed   29    71
INFRASTRUCTURE        ains (trunk & Subsidiary)
Sewerage - Stabilization
ponds, branch sewers, force
main & pumping station           29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged         Unchanged   Unchanged
Electricity - power distribu-
tion lines to CBD
project housing                  29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged         Unchanged   Unchanged
Roads - lOQOr of bitumen           29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged          Unchanged   Unchanged
Bridges - 4900m of gravel,         29      71   1 submer-         N/A             1 submer-       N/A
1 footbridge, 1 submersible                   sible foot-                      sible foot-
footbridge & 1 cycle/ foot-                   bridge S 1                       bridge & 1
bridge                                        cycle/foot-                      cycle/foot-
bridge                           bridge still
deleted                          deleted
COMIIUNITY        1 primary school                    29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged          2 primary   Unchanged
PACILICIES                                                                                           schoolsi (1
3/                      added)
Council Office building            29      71   deleted              N/A          still            N/A
deleted
2 Ward offices for TC staff        29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged         Unchanged   Unchanged
2 Clinics                          29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged         Unchaniged   Unchanged
1 council works depot              29      71   Unchanged      Unchanged         Unchanged   Unchanged
1 central market                   29      71   substantially Unchanged   central market  Unchanged
reduced 4/                  reintroduced
plus vending
stands
1 concrete block making machine  291ccal 71   deleted               N/A           deleted          N/A
TEChN.CAL          Setting up of SHIA in FTC         fore tgn 100   Unchanged     Unchanged         Unchanged   Unchanged
ASSISTANCE
Water tariff study                 29local 71   Unchanged      UnchanRed          deleted          N/A
foreign 100
Other                               -      -         -              -        preparation of  - foreign 100
2nd urban project 29 local 71
added
SUPERVISION    : Construction Supervision of         foreign 100   Unchanged      Unchanged   increased to          Unchanged
Consultanta                      29loca1 71                                cover additional
project components
1/ This exclusion not explicit (para ).
3/  COB to carry 100% of a11 cost overrun.
3/  Nosinol amount kept in for some eqlpme-t and/or renovation
T/  Reduced to vending staiLs. n each of the sites and services arens (W, I, L).
5/ Except for the industrial plots, which are to be financed out ef the credit (29Y, GOS, 712 IDA).



- 13 -
B. Project Components
3.05       A list of project components as agreed to at appraisal is contained
in Table 3.1. As tender bids were received for the different contracts it
became apparent that there were substantial cost overruns--attributed
primarily to large increases (about 50%) in the costs of building materials
over the preceding 18 months. As a consequence, the council offices were
deleted, as were two of the three footbridges, and other components were
trimmed (most notably the proposed market which was replaced by less costly
vending shelters). The block making machine was also deleted, as local facil-
ities already existed to ensure an adequate supply at competitive prices.
The deletions related to items that had originally been held to be of lower
priority by mission staff, and all changes were made in consultation with
IDA (Table 3.1).
3.06      Throughout the implementation of the project, the most persistent
infrastructure problem was the provision of a satisfactory sanitation
system for the sites and services, settlement and upgrading areas. Waterborne
sewerage was excluded from consideration early in the project as (i) being
unaffordable to the beneficiaries, and (ii) requiring levels of water con-
sumption beyond the available resources in Francistown. In seeking an inter-
mediate sytem between waterborne sewerage and pit latrines, it was decided to
introduce aqua privies. These were still relatively experimental and in the
event proved to be socially unacceptable, as well as presenting some technical
problems. Subsequent improvements to the aqua privies have made them more
acceptable and functional. However, they are generally too expensive for the
majority of beneficiaries and cannot function successfully in much of the soil
conditions prevalent in Botswana towns. By project completion no alternative
had been found although several attempts, including the funding of research
efforts, still ongoing, were made to develop a viable system in the Botswana
context (paras. 4.38 and 4.39). Consequently simple pit latrines were per-
mitted, at least until an alternative was found, and only a few aqua privies,
on a trial scale, are in place.
3.07      On June 23, 1976, IDA approved the expansion of the project to
include additional components--an opportunity that presented itself when
the Rand devalued midway through implementation. This had little impact on
project costs since most foreign components of the project were procured in
South Africa. However, the net effect was that if the IDA Credit was to be
maintained at US$3.0 million, substantial additional resources would be
available for the project. GOB proposed that IDA revise its share of the
financing from an average of 71% to 80%. IDA suggested instead that it
finance 71% of those items previously to be paid 100% by GOB. IDA felt that
this variation was acceptable as the reasons for the original arrangement
were the result of incomplete feasibility studies at appraisal--studies
that were subsequently satisfactorily undertaken. The effect of this
shift in financing obligations released GOB resources to offset some of the
cost overruns, and to provide counterpart financing (29%) for additional



- 14 -
Table 3.II: PROJECT COSTS
(Appraisal Estimates, tender estimates, final)
Listed by Contract
Tender           Final
Appraisal      Contract        Contract
Estimate       Sums              Sums          x Ciaa
*   .L.            .A~L           __ (P)            (Col.3/1
1. CIVIL WORKS
(a) Main Contract
(i) All infrastructure works (primary and on-site,
excluding electricity)l/                             1,142,900      1,293,100        1,586,300          +39
(ii)  Same for Aerodrome Site 2/                                -            161,600         135,300          u/A
(b) Electrical
(i) Power distribution lines and on-site electricity
reticulation network (street lighting)                  148,000        272,600         327,900         +122
(ii)  Same for Aerodrome Site 2/                                -             71,100          66,700          N/A
2. COMM(UNITY FACILITIES
(a)  First Contract (2 ward offices, 2 clinics, 1 stmi-                                                   7/
cipal depot-phases I and II)                                 112,300        259,600         256,400 -       +128
(b)  Primary School (Monarch)                                     107,000        173,900         187,100 -        +75
(c)  FTC offices                                                  150,000        deleted         deleted         -100
Cd)  CBD Market place                                              43,800         30,000          31,800          -27
(e)  Vending Stalls (sites and services areas W, S, L)              -             11,600           9,100 -        N/A
£)  Primary School (Aerodrome Area 2-                                           199,700         208,600          N/A
(g)  Vending Stalls (Aeroerone Area-                                                               1,900 5        N/A
(h) block-making machine                                           20,000        deleted         deleted          N/A
3. MATERIALS LOANS
(a)  800 loans (at P250 each)                                     200,000           -            175,30C          -12
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(a)  Setting up SHHA in FTC                                       190,000           -            284,100 4/       +50
(b)  Water Tariff Study                                            20,000           -            deleted         -100
(c)  Urban II preparation 2/                                        -                            120,500          NIA
5.  SUPERVISION                                                       149,000                        291,000 -N/A
6.  CONTINGENCIES (Physical and Price)                                627,000                           -              N/A
TOTAL                                                           2,910,000           _          3,682,100          N/A
1/ Comprises two contracts and two contractors, one for roads and drainage, the other for water and sewerage.
2/ Included in project after devaluation.
3/ Includes topping up for project coordinator (P36,000 at appraisal, 98,211 at final).
4/ Includes topping up for SHHA Management Adivsor (P19,090).
5/ Labor only (FTC tender/contract).
6/ Expanded after devaluation to cover additional items included in project.
7/ Includes equipment (P5,870) not originally included.
8/ Includes equipment (P11,903) not initially included.
9/ Includes P18,000 for consultant economist.



- 15 -
items proposed for inclusion in the project. The additional items, listed
in Table 3.1, column 3, were for the most part those components that had been
deleted earlier in the implementation cycle to offset the initial cost over-
runs. The additional items new to the project were consistent with the type
of provisions agreed on at appraisal (a primary school, vending shelters)
and were within the scope and scale of the original project.
3.08      The major additions were:  expansion of the site and services com-
ponent (back to the original size of 800 plots, before Area "V" was dropped)
through the development of a new site (the Aerodrome Area); another primary
school--to service the new site and adjacent areas; extensions to the exist-
ing CBD sewerage and electrical networks 1/; and the inclusion of technical
assistance for the preparation of a second urban project. There were other
minor adjustments, including the reintroduction of the market, while retain-
ing the vending stalls (which had been introduced after the market had earlier
been deleted) in all the site and service areas.
3.09      The flexibility followed by GOB and IDA during implementation ensured
completion of the project as appraised, while allowing the deletion of some of
the items considered of lower priority and the addition of others considered
to be more appropriate. Table 3.1 summarizes amendments made during project
implementation in consultation with IDA for various reasons, i.e., cost over-
runs and devaluation of the Rand, listed above.
C. Costs
3.10      The Appraisal Report describes a total project cost of P 2.91 2/
millions (US$ 4.36) of which P 2.0 2/ millions (US$ 3.0) was to be financed by
IDA and P 0.91 2/ million (US$ 1.36T by GOB. These estimates included 10% for
physical and 20% for price contingencies.  Actual costs, compared to appraisal
estimates, are listed by contract and summarized in Table 3.2. A further
breakdown of total project costs is listed in Annex 1, Tables 1 to 4. How-
ever, the difference between actual costs and appraisal estimates shown in
the table must be read in conjunction with Table 3.1, which reflects the
expansion of the project resulting from the devaluation of the Rand. The
implication for project costs of these changes is described below.
3.11      At completion, IDA had fully disbursed the credit of US$3.0 mil-
lion, and the cost to GOB was in fact only P 214,000 more than the P 0.91
1/   Further cost overruns resulted in these not being implemented.
2/   Before devaluation.



- 16 -
million appraisal estimate l/--an increase of 5.8% over the estimated total
project cost at appraisal. The breakdown of this accounting is as follows:
1.  IDA credit (US$)                               3,000,000
2.  IDA credit (P) 2/                             2,558,000
3.  Original estimated GOB contribution (P)          910,000
4.  Total IDA and GOB contributions (P) 3/        3,468,000
5.  Actual cost at completion (P)                 3,682,000
6.  Shortfall (P) 4/                                 214,000
3.12      Moreover, the 5.8% increase to GOB includes items added to the
project after devaluation. Excluding these items and taking into account
contingencies, cost overruns amounted to about P 88,000--an increase in total
costs of 3% on appraisal estimates. Thus, less than half of the P 214,000 in
cost increases to GOB is attributable to the expansion of the project to
???include larger and/or additional components.
3.13      It should be noted however, that items excluded for technical
rather than cost reasons (the aqua privies and sites and services area "V")
would have substantially altered the extent of the cost overruns if they had
been built under the project.
D. Disbursements
3.14      By December 31, 1979 the IDA Credit of US$3.0 million had been
fully disbursed. This was nearly two years later than originally targeted at
appraisal March 1978, but met the revised schedule established after devalua-
tion. The new schedule was designed to allow for construction of the addi-
tional project components, as well as to take into account the slower d.isburse-
ment of materials loans which could only occur after the new sites and services
had been laid out.
1/   All cost increases were borne 100% by GOB.
2/   Conversion factor of 1.175 used--the estimated average rate during
implementation (after devaluation).
3/   Based on appraisal estimates, but after devaluation (Rows 2 + 3).
4/   Row 5 - 4.  Shortfall was borne 100% by GOB.



- 17 -
3.15      However, delays in disbursement were only partially attributable to
the expansion of project components. Other causes included: lack of familiar-
ity on the part of the Borrower with IDA procedures for disbursements in the
early stages of implementation; a longer than anticipated lapse between
negotiations and effectiveness; delays in completing detailed design and tender
documents; and delays during construction. However, the major constraint to
timely disbursements resulted from very slow turnaround times by Government in
sending back to Francistown the endorsed copies of Payment Vouchers. These
were necessary for submission to IDA, as part of the application for reimburse-
ment. This problem persisted throughout the implementation of the Francistown
Urban Project, and was only rectified during the Second Project--something
that could presumably have been acted on earlier by the project management
staff. Similarly had IDA officials reviewed the application preparation
procedures of Government the bottlenecks might have been flagged early in the
process and rectified.
3.16      The disbursement schedule as estimated at appraisal and as actually
occurred is given in Annex 1, Table 5. Figure 3A summarizes both in US dollars
and in Pula. Comparing the dollar curves, it can be seen that disbursement
commenced a year later than initially estimated, and took place at a slower
rate than originally projected thereafter, except at the tail end of the
schedule (after 1977) when the remaining US$700,000 still outstanding was
taken up over a further two years (but within the revised schedule that fol-
lowed devaluation), at a rate roughly paralleling the original schedule.
3.17      The expenditure profile calculated in Pula provides a very rough
reflection of actual works in progress. Here it can be seen that although
starting a year late, disbursements accelerated and achieved the original
amount on the date schedules in the appraisal estimates. Thereafter, dis-
bursements from the credit (representing the additional resources released
through devaluation) continued according to the revised schedule.
E. Procurement
3.18      At appraisal the project was divided into four contracts--three
(civil works, electrical and buildings) to be procured according to ICB, and
the other (building materials) according to local competitive bidding proce-
dures. The latter was justified on the grounds that the materials were
intended for a loan program that would require procurement in small incre-
ments, and there were sufficient local suppliers to ensure competitive bids.
3.19      Procurement was conducted as provided for in the appraisal report
and no major problems were encountered. There were however some changes to
the contracts as originally envisaged, but in all instances after IDA con-
sultation and approval. In the case of the main contract (civil works), only
two bids were received. This was in part attributed to the overly rigorous
bonding requirements (the 25% Surety Bond and P 1000 per day liquidated
damages were requirements imposed by IDA but reduced in subsequent contracts).



- 18 -
FIGURE 3A.: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS (Estimates and Actual)
3,000,000                                                                               .....
Appraisal Estimate IUS $) /              Actual (US X)
Actual (P)
co/                                                               .'          /  a ter Devaluation
Appraisal                     /
E
Estimate (P)
2,000,000     X                      before
*                      g    ~~~~~~~~~Devaluation
o/                          I0
r/                                              I
/ . I
I   2  3  4  1    2   3   4   1 a2   3   4                  3   4       <       i
1975      |      1976             1977             1981979
World Bank-2'3009



- 19 -
Another factor was that very few contractors with the requisite capacity for
this scale of project works operated in the northern part of Botswana. A
careful review by IDA, during preparation, of availability of suitable con-
tractors for the works proposed under the project could have helped the Asso-
ciation and Government arrive at tender conditions that were not too stringent
(in this case the bonding and liquidated damages requirements).
3.20      The bids were also substantially above the consultant's estimates--
initially considered the result of price movements and the bonding limita-
tions.  A supervision mission to Botswana at that time established an addi-
tional cause--the consultants (apparently without GOB knowledge) had raised
the standards in the tender documents after IDA approval. The possiblity of
rebidding was rejected by both IDA and Government after lengthy discussions
about alternative courses of action, as there was no strong indication addi-
tional firms would tender, and the costs of further delays may have offset any
benefits. The original contract was therefore split into two (one for roads,
drainage and bridges, the other for water and sewerage) and one awarded to
each of the two tenderers. New prices were negotiated based on the original
standards.
3.21      The main electrical contract was awarded to the second lowest bid
as the Tender Board had ruled that the lowest did not satisfy the conditions
of tender. While IDA approved the decision, it had been given very little
time for review between receipt of the Tender evaluation and Tender Board
recommendation, and the expiration of the award period. The concern that a
more reasonable review schedule be ensured in future contract award procedures
in order to allow IDA adequate response time was strongly made.
3.22      It was important for Government to realize that prompt action was
needed in informing IDA of the award decisions as early as possible particu-
larly if there were likely to be queries by the Association. Difficulties
might have been avoided or mitigated if IDA officials had, early in the proj-
ect, pointed out the potential time constraints of tender awards that were
likely to be queried by IDA. It could have been explained that the number of
parties participating in the decision (project management, the contractor,
design consultants, supervising consultants, the Tender Board, and IDA) would
all be involved should any concerns arise and, given the time limitations of a
fixed tender period, prompt consultations would be essential. To assist with
this, IDA officials might have discussed with project management the types of
issues that would be of particular concerns (such as the tender not going to
the lowest bidder), thus enabling Government to flag possible problems and
initiate early consultations.
3.23      The buildings (primarily community facilities and primary schools)
contract, initially conceived as a single large tender, was revised and broken
into several smaller contracts as reflected in table 3.2, primarily because
of programming requirements. The resultant size of the contracts was conse-
quently no longer likely to attract international tenderers. GOB proposed
changing to local competitive bidding and this was agreed to by IDA. Response
to local bidding was satisfactory.



- 20 -
F. Physical Progress
3.24      Construction on all three contracts (para. 3.18) was projected to
commence in early 1974. As a result of startup delays (para. 3.02), changes
in project components (in response to cost overruns, para. 3.05), and addi-
tions to the project (following devaluation, para. 3.07), this schedule was
substantially revised. The estimates of project implementation at alppraisal
are compared to what actually occurred in Figure 3.B.
3.25      As indicated in Figure 3.B, delays in completion of construction of
the original three contracts (excluding the FTC offices and the market which
had been changed to vending shelters to offset cost overruns) ranged between
six months and 2.75 years. However, it should be noted that the length of
the actual construction period was the same (with the exception of the Monarch
Primary School) as the original appraisal estimates. 1/ Thus delays are pri-
marily attributable to startup constraints (para. 3.03).
3.26      Construction of the components introduced (or re-introduced) after
devaluation was carried out expeditiously following startup delays similar
to the previous contracts, and together with Monarch Primary School, were
completed in 1978. Excepted from this were the marketplace and vending stalls
which were completed in 1979 and which experienced substantial delays during
construction. The latter were handled as FTC tender contracts, with FTC re-
sponsible for providing the requisite materials--something that appeared
to be poorly managed, resulting in the delays. In the case of the market,
difficulties with obtaining materials was given as the main reason.
3.27      In general, other than the FTC Tender Contracts for vending shel-
ters, and the contract for the market (both small items), the contracts were
considered to have been satisfactorily completed, both in terms of quality of
work (ranging from fair to very good) and timing. The contractor for the
municipal works depot was however held to be inadequate and was subsequently
barred from bidding on any other tenders. The contractor for the schools
performed well from the point of view of quality, but was seriously over
schedule and was required to forfeit P 400 on the Monarch School and P 4,200
on the Aerodrome School in ascertained and liquidated damages.
G. Covenants
3.28      All but two of the covenants have been complied with as originally
envisaged at appraisal. The one covenant not fully satisfied was the allocation
of Certificates of Rights (CORs) giving secure tenure to people living in the
1/   Although it can be seen in Figure 3.B that at tender award/construction
commencement, the projected completion of all contracts was considerably
more optimistic than what occurred.



FIGURE 3 B: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF
PROCUREMENT AND CONSTRUCTION WORKS
(Appraisal Estimates and Actual)
1973              1974               1975              1976               1977             1978              1979
1   23    41                                1 3[4    1          3 3  4    1   2   3 3   4    1   2 13   4    1   2   3   4
1. Civil Works Contracts                           _ _ \\                                  1 -1  r  Si/
a. Water/Sewerage                                              ;        I_   III  III  il iii tilliEI l gll
b. Roads/SWD/Bridge                                                    aims   mu   im ama  IIII EIE E
v
c, Water/Roads/SWD                                                                                                        mu III la
(aerodrome area)
2. Electrical Contracts                                     \\%   IN~  ml                    11 m m
a. Main Electrical                                                                        I   I |t|
b. Aerodrom Area**  *
3. Community Facility Contracts                           #                                  11I t |
a. Clinics, Ward Offices, Depot                                                            goAl uumlmimm  *mm7a
b. Depot (Phase l1l)                                                                      II                is
c. Primary School (Monarch)                                                                            ivi  III   mum  ml|i  m t ,,,m ,.
d. Primary School (Aerodrome)                                                                                                i      s
e. Vending Stalls (W,S,L)                                                                                                                VI
f. CBD Marketplace                                                                                                                 umiumml lia
g. Vending Stalls (Aerodrome)                                                                                                                       m ;i
4. Building Materials                                    I1WX\\ N           -      6_              Ml    -             m/ |   |
_    _  . _ _ _    I ells1 Z||l-- 1ilU1|ihi III?Sr                       Lll llW1|1|   
\\\x\\x\\x\\xZ   Contractor Procurenment (appraisal estimate)
Contractor Procurement (actual)
inin    Construction Schedule (appraisal estimate)
I111t1 111111   Construction Schedule (actual)
v         Projected Construction Completion date at
Time of Commencement of Construction.
As estimated at appraisal (excludes project components (aerodrome area) added after devaluation.
World Bank - 23010



- 22 -
upgrading and, to a lesser extent, the traditional (settlement) housing areas.
This was in part attributable to technical constraints--the requisite aerial
photos were not available and could not be flown (military restrictions on
overflights) and other survey methods were generally too expensive. This is
being rectified during implementation of the second urban project. For a
fuller discussion see para. 4.15.
3.29      The second covenant not adequately complied with was the auditing
of Francistown Town Council accounts within reasonable periods of time.
Although satisfactory audits were eventually produced, the first of these
did not become available until close to the closing date of the project.
For a fuller discussion, see para. 4.39.
3.30      Several other changes to the project components (see Section 3.B
and Table 3.1) both before and following devaluation were agreed to by IDA
during implementation.
H. Operating Performance
3.31      Overall, the operating performance of the project appears to comply
with engineering standards assumed during project appraisal and reflected in
the appraisal report and in Credit documents. The standards and service
levels, in attempting to match the very limited resources of the prospective
users, are substantially lower than those used in prior government projects
in the towns. Nevertheless, they have proven in general to be satisfactory.
3.32      Roads.  Standards for roads built under the project called for a
bituminized road leading to commercial plots, while gravel and earth roads
were proposed for access and internal circulation. Adequate storm water
drainage was provided and this has helped maintain the roads in good condi-
tion. The performance of these standards compare well with existing roads
in Francistown, which carry only moderate vehicle traffic. So far the roads
built under the project have stood up well and are adequately maintained
by the Town Council.
3.33      The roads as built are a compromise between affordability to plot
holders and minimum standards. While these standards appear suitable, an
analysis based on experience to date and in the near future should be made
of construction and maintenance costs for different standards, in order to
establish the least expensive alternative over time (life cycle cost). To
this end, actual costs of maintaining the roads should be monitored by the
Town Engineer for future consideration of standards to be applied. Estimated
costs for maintenance presented by the Town Engineer indicate the requirement
of approximately P 2,000/km per annum (the same amount for maintenance as
for construction for gravel roads), and about P 800 for earth roads, based
on required grading of once per month. It seems that less frequent grading
should suffice, at least during the dry season, so that costs, which are
supposed to be recovered from plot holders by monthly service charges, could
be reduced.



- 23 -
3.34     Stormwater Drains.  Stormwater is being collected in ditches.
However, no vehicular access (culvert) has been provided to plots. In order
to gain access by car or cart, some residents filled in part of the ditch in
front of their plot without provision for the unobstructed flow of storm
water. These incidents would not justify a general change in the design of
stormwater drainage. Where vehicular access is required, the Town Council
should assist plot owners by giving advice on how to build a culvert them-
selves or by insisting that a proper structure be built by a contractor or by
the Council.
3.35     Water.  Water is supplied from the town's water supply system.  Trunk
and distribution mains for project areas were provided under the Credit. In
site and services and in upgrading areas metered standpipes, each serving about
25 plots, were installed. In the traditional housing areas one standpipe for
approximately 80 households was provided. Thereby low-income groups have been
given access to clean water meeting public health requirements, which pre-
viously was not available to them. The distance between plots and standpipes
is reasonable and acceptable.
3.36      Plotholders who can afford it, are allowed to have individual water
connections. So far only about 40 plots have been connected. The take-over
by WUC of the water supply system (paras. 4.30 to 4.32) has had no effect on
plotholders in project areas, as they continued to be charged by the Town
Council through the service levy. The Town Council in turn is billed by WUC
for standpipe water consumption. Those with individual connections now are
required to pay water charges according to WUC standards.
3.37      Sanitation.  For sanitation the project provided for sewer con-
nections to new commercial areas and for the construction of some 2,700 aqua
privies in the sites and services, traditional housing, and upgrading areas.
3.38    As mentioned in para. 3.06, aqua privies proved to be unworkable as
the primary low-cost sanitation system in Botswana and were consequently
deleted from the project. By project completion no acceptable and financially
affordable alternative had been found. One option being considered is the
revised earth closet, type II (REC II), a double-vault ventilated pit latrine.
3.39      This appears to be the most suitable type, although acceptability
to residents remains to be seen when emptying becomes necessary in two to
three years. The cost of the substructure plus seat, pan and cover is
presently estimated at about P 290 (US$ 350 equivalent) if constructed by
contractor. The estimate at appraisal for an aqua privy was about P 120
without contingencies. The method of financing, and promotion of this type
of latrine and education on its use are presently under consideration by GOB
and the Town Council. Other efforts to develop a viable low-cost sanitation
system are continuing under active support from the Technology Advisory Group
(TAG), established in the Bank under an UNDP Global Project of demonstration
programs in low-cost water supply and sanitation in developing countries, for
which the Bank is the executing agency.



- 24 -
3.40      Electricity.  The electricity component of the project is small,
amounting to about 3% of total project costs. As low-income areas `.n
Francistown do not have electricity in the houses the project provicled only
for distribution lines to commercial plots and for security lighting in the
lower-income areas. Lights are spaced to provide enough light in the area
to give residents an adequate feeling of security. Botswana Power Corpora-
tion (BPC took over ownership of FTC's electricity network in 1979 f-or the
same reason as WUC took over the water supply and with the same (i.e., no)
effect on plot holders.)
3.41      Use and Performance of Consultants.  Engineering and arch:itectural
consultants were employed by GOB for the design, preparation of bidding docu-
ments and construction supervision for infrastructure works (roads, water
supply, sewerage and streetlighting) and for buildings included in the proj-
ect. Layout plans for individual housing areas were prepared by the MLGL's
Town and Regional Planning Department.
3.42      The consultants selected were either based in Botswana or in neigh-
boring countries and had previous experience there. Their performance was
satisfactory and good liaison was maintained between the consultants, their
employer, the Central Tender Board and the Francistown Towr. Council---the
authority with jurisdiction over the areas of development.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Performance and Development
4.01       The Borrower, the Republic of Botswana, through the Ministry of
Local Government and Lands (MLGL), contracted for construction of a-Ll infra-
structure under the project--roads and drains, water supply, electr:icity and
community facilities. Upon completion of construction these facilit:ies were
turned over to the Francistown Town Council (FTC) to operate and ma-intain.
The water and electricity facilities were subsequently taken over by the Water
Utilities Corporation (WUC) and Botswana Power Corporation (BPC) in July and
September 1979 respectively. The project's building material loan program was
administered by FTC and the Council was also responsible for ensuring repayments
from project beneficiaries.
Central Govennent
4.02      Organized to oversee urban and rural physical and community develop-
ment and to supervise the activities of town and district council, 14LGL now has
a professional staff of approximately 60 persons, divided among six divisions
and several supporting units.  MLGL has the following major responsibilities:
(a) Program planning and coordination, which are the responsibility
of the Under Secretary (Urban). The Low-cost Housing Officer
is responsible for coordinating and encouraging plans of



- 25 -
town and district councils in the provision of housing
and related services for lower-income households. Imple-
mentation of housing and other urban projects is managed
by two Urban Development Coordinators, one for Gaborone
and Lobatse, the other for Francistown and Selebi-Phikwe.
(b) The Department of Town and Regional Planning prepares
comprehensive structure plans for towns and villages.
(c) The Department of Surveys and Lands is responsible for
land ownership and physical surveys and mapping and the
maintenance of land ownership records.
(d) The Unified Local Government Service (ULGS), a department
of MLGL, is responsible for recruitment, training and
posting of Town Council and other local government
personnel.
The Ministry of Finance and Development Planning (MFDP) Planning Officers work
with the MLGL on the financing of housing programs, schools, health clinics,
and other related facilities and services. Ministries of Works, Communication,
Education, Health and Home Affairs are required to provide the public facili-
ties and services that come under their ministerial portfolios.
4.03      Three government corporations have major housing and related infra-
structure functions: Botswana Housing Corporation (BHC); Botswana Power Cor-
poration (BPC); Water Utilities Corporation (WUC).
4.04      The project related responsibilities of MLGL were as follows:
(a) foundation and implementation of appropriate urban policies
and standards;
(b) supervising detailed design and contract document preparation
of project components;
(c) procurement;
(d) supervising the construction of primary infrastructure and
community facilities; and
(e) supervising preparation and servicing of land for industrial,
commercial and residential use, including squatter upgrading.
It was however agreed during project processing that procurement of build-
ing materials would be done by FTC using its normal procurement procedures,
acceptable to the Bank.
4.05      The most important project role has been played by the Urban Affairs
and Housing (development) Division, established under the Francistown Urban
Project. This division has been staffed adequately throughout project imple-
mentation and has performed well in executing its functions. The staff of the



- 26 -
Division consists of an engineer, planner, low-cost housing officer and urban
development coordinator, posts approved since the start of the Francistown
Project. ln preparing for the second urban project the services of a consul-
tant economist were also employed and more recently a low-cost sanitation
officer as well as a research officer have been added. The Division reports
to the Under Secretary Urban. Throughout implementation the professional staff,
all expatriate, was concerned with developing an appropriate urban policy
framework and strategy. In addition, the urban development coordinator (UDC)
located in Francistown, supervised physical implementation of the project. He
oversaw consultants and contractors. MLGL approved an ex-town clerk of
Francistown, an expatriate, to the post where he has remained until now. For
the second urban project the post of deputy UDC was created and a Motswana
approved to fill the post.   The deputy UDC will be taking over from the UDC
at the end of the latter's contract (June 1981).
4.06       Localization of the other main posts in the Urban Affairs Division
of MLGL is likely to take much longer. The Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA) has funded the position of low-cost housing officer for two two-
year contracts, starting at the commencement of the Francistown Project. It
had been hoped that the position would then be localized from a selection of
people already in training overseas. However, this has not been possible and
subsequently USAID funded the post for a two-year period. USAID recently
agreed to fund a further two-year contract, when the incumbent leaves in May
1981. The localization of senior professional positions in MLGL has been
no more difficult or delayed than in other Government Ministries and can be
said to be a country as opposed to sector or project specific problem. The
problem could be helped however by more thought to medium- and short-term
training, on and off the job. In our sector dialogue with Government and
in discussions on a possible third urban project the staffing needs of the
urban sector is expected to be of major concern.
4.07       A permanent Urban Development Committee (UDC) was established in
1977. It is comprised of representatives of all central government depart-
ments involved in urban affairs and Town Councils. This Committee is chaired
by the Deputy Secretary (Urban) of MLGL. It makes detailed policy recommenda-
tions to Cabinet.
Francistown Town Council (FTC)
4.08       There has been no significant change in Town Council regulations
since appraisal in 1973. As with the other town councils, FTC continues to
operate under central government control. The regulations govern the duties
of councils, valuation and rating of property, accounts and audits, as well
as borrowing power.
4.09       FTC responsibilities under the project were as follows:
(a) allocating site and services plots;
(b)  procuring for and managing the building material loans
program;



- 27 -
(c) providing technical assistance to plot holders in self-
help house construction;
(d) monitoring and supervising the overall aspects of the
project, including maintenance of project records; and
(e) recovering payments for plot development and building
materials loan from beneficiaries.
4.10      With respect to implementation of the project, FTC carried out its
functions in a diligent and timely manner. Problems occurred with tenure in
the Tatitown upgrading area, primarily as a result of: plot rationalization
and demarcation difficulties (para. 4.15); inadequate records of repayments
being maintained (para. 4.17); and poor follow-up on delinquent accounts
(para. 4.17). Nevertheless the project was greatly strengthened by the deep
involvement of the Town Council in its implementation. All the town planning
proposals and the minutiae of implementation arrangements were vetted by the
councillors, usually men and women of some influence and prominence. While
this was a slow procedure, the final effect was a large measure of community
support for the project, even where it inevitably involved the relocation of
households. Overall, the institutional arrangements proposed under the proj-
ect represented a substantial advance on the set up in place before appraisal.
4.11      Self-Help Housing Agency.  To perform its implementation functions,
the Council created a special unit called the Self-Help Housing Agency (SHHA),
something that has now been adopted by the other town councils. Originally,
the SHHA Director's job was expected to be filled by an expatriate funded by
SIDA, but subsequently it was decided to promote one of the two existing ward
officers, and redesign the SIDA-funded position to that of advisor. The
agency staff included six building artisans headed by a construction foreman,
three laborers, eight community development workers and other administrative
staff, as envisaged at appraisal.
4.12      Towards the end of the project, the enthusiasm of the SHHA staff
which had kept up throughout implementation diminished with staff changes,
problems with cost recovery, and the completion of most of the construction
activity. Government recruited two building trainers for the Agency from
overseas volunteer agencies to help with house consolidation. Revenue col-
lectors were added to the SHHA staff midway through project implementation,
but it soon became apparent that most were inadequately trained or motivated,
and they were not well supervised. Stationed at ward offices, and technically
under the authority of the SHHA, these revenue collectors in fact reported to
the treasurer's office. Their lack of supervision appears to have contributed
significantly to the failure of FTC to maintain accurate records or follow up
on emerging cost recovery problems.
4.13      Site and Services Management Board.  FTC created a Site and Services
Management Board consisting of Central Government representatives (including
the UDC), and FTC councillors and staff (including the Director of SHHA).
Originally, there were three councillors chosen by the Town Council (now there



- 28 -
are five). The Board approved plot allocations and transfers. It also pro-
posed policy guidelines for SHHA operations, including plot allocations policy,
and advised council on other low-cost housing matters. The Board generally
operated well and carried out its functions satisfactorily.
4.14      Plot Allocation.  The key features of the proposed allocation system
for traditional and site and service plots appears to have worked reasonably
well: plots were advertised in Town Council and Ward offices, SHHA screened
applicants through interviews to ascertain that they met eligibility and prior-
ity criteria (Chapter 5 gives details of beneficiaries). The SHHA list of
screened candidates was then forwarded to the FTC Sites and Services Manage-
ment Board for approval. The Board met at least once a month during project
implementation and no undue delays seemed to interfere with the smooth running
of the allocations process. From the viewpoint of beneficiaries also, the
system seem to work reasonably well and, more importantly, most of the plots
went to the target group (para. 5.09).
4.15      Plot Rationalization and Demarcation.  This was a problem in settle-
ment and upgrading areas which prevented proper title (COR's) being conveyed.
At appraisal it was envisaged that cadastral surveys would be needed of each
block only, as opposed to each plot, before granting a COR. This would have
simplified procedures, substantially cutting costs and time. In fact, MLGL's
Department of Surveys and Lands required individual plot surveys.  The SHHA
did not have the resources for undertaking work of this magnitude. Aerial
surveys were recommended as an acceptable alternative but overflights were
not permitted at that time. It has only been under the second project that
aerial surveys have been introduced in upgrading areas (for both the first
and second projects) in order to demarcate plot boundaries relatively quickly
and inexpensively. Consequently the status of tenure for residents in these
areas is only now being clarified (para. 4.23).
4.16      Cost Recovery.  The poor performance in the recovery of costs through
monthly service levies and building materials loans repayments persists as a
major problem in Francistown. Recent summaries of the status of the default
rate indicate that slightly less than 29% of plot occupants in Francistown
are in 90 day arrears. The figures represent a considerable improvement over
previous information, which had been based on inaccurate records. H[owever,
the data relates to sites and services areas only, as the records fcor the
upgrading areas are still to be rectified--an exercise requiring technical
assistance. It is estimated that cost recovery in upgrading areas is much
poorer than in site and service areas, and that the rectification of records
for these areas will therefore result in an initial deterioration of the
arrears figures.
4.17      The following are generally given as the major reasons for the dif-
ficulties with cost recovery to date:
-    poor recordkeeping procedures in which beneficiaries were
unclear as to when their repayment obligations commenced,
and the individual client records maintained by the SHHAs
contained substantial clerical and arithmetical errors.



- 29 -
the high arrears rate in Francistown has been a factor
for several years, virtually establishing a tradition of
neglecting to make payments.
limited planning by the SHHAs for the participation of the
beneficiaries in better understanding what services were
being provided, what benefits these represented, and what
obligations were in turn required of the beneficiaries.
Coupled with this was the inadequate delivery of services
and maintenance by the Town Council, most notably garbage
collection--a particularly visible service the allottees
had been given to understand was one of the items for which
they were paying.
initially inadequate legislation governing:  the tenure to
be offered the beneficiaries; the linkage of this tenure to
monthly repayment obligations; and the instruments/regula-
tions appropriate for proceeding against defaulters
(para. 4.23).
the absence of follow through with eviction procedures
against defaulters. In Francistown several campaigns were
launched in years following the startup of cost recovery
efforts, and then allowed to fail. However, this should be
seen in the context of the initial absence and subsequent
gradual evolution of the appropriate legal mechanisms.
*   although SHHA staff responsible for assisting with collec-
tions were generally well motivated, the SHHA offices have
been understaffed and, more particularly, staff have lacked
appropriate training.
4.18      Based on continuing efforts by GOB and the local authorities, sub-
stantial progress has been made in resolving cost recovery difficulties, and
the impact of this progress is expected to become apparent over the next few
months. Rectification of records, with the help of a short-term consultant,
has been completed for the sites and services areas. However in the upgrading
areas a more complex rectification exercise requiring longer-term (3-6 months)
technical assistance is required. Recently a housing advisor (expatriate) has
been identified. He has specialized accounting and financial skills and will
initially focus, with the SHHA staff, on straightening out the records. It
is anticipated that his appointment will be confirmed soon and that he would
shortly thereafter take up his position.
4.19      As a result of legislative changes the initiation of proceedings by
FTC against the worst cases of default is well advanced. Some 55 defaulters,
comprising plot owners from five different areas were notified of proceedings
against them. Of these 26 made satisfactory repayment arrangements with the
SHHA and the name of the remaining 29 have been published in the Government
Gazette--the final step preceeding court hearings. It is hoped these actions
will demonstrate official commitment and new legal capability regarding col-
lection of arrears, and that this will substantially lower the rate of default.



- 30 -
4.20      Another possible contributing factor to anticipated improvements in
collections has been the effort by SHHA staff to better inform allottees of
what services they can expect in return for their monthly payments. In addi-
tion, the SHHA has been pursuing several avenues, to expedite and improve
collections (such as deductions from payrolls where applicable or arranging
with beneficiaries to meet at the workplace on payday to receive payment).
4.21      FTC Staffing.  As this was the first such urban project in Botswana,
and only the second urban project to be financed by the Bank, many of the
staffing problems were the result of inevitable teething difficulties. How-
ever, they have provided valuable experience for future urban projects in
Botswana. These problems, inevitable as they may have been, were manifested
by insufficient and inadequately trained staff at ward offices, and by the
fact that the Town Treasurer was generally overworked and had very inexperi-
enced staff. For the future it appears that greater autonomy by Town Councils
in recruitment of junior level staff (revenue collectors, ward officers, etc.)
would ensure a better motivated and more experienced staff. This had been
originally agreed to by the Unified Local Government Service (ULGS), but
before being implemented the decision appears to have been rescinded. It
should now be reconsidered within the ministry as a matter of some urgency.
More attention to staff recruitment, training and performance would probably
have helped the overall performance of FTC, particularly cost recovery. This
should be a focus of Bank sector dialogue in the future as the staffing and
training situation, particularly at middle and junior levels, has not improved
noticeably since completion of the first project.
4.22      Key Council Officers under the Project.  Four Council officers were
expected to play key roles in the project: the Town Clerk, Treasurer, Engi-
neer and SHHA Director. In the event, only two did so, the Engineer and SHHA
Director, because of unforseeable high turnover in the posts of Town Clerk
and Treasurer. During the project seven different incumbents held these two
posts. Continuity problems were particularly noticeable in the case of the
treasurer, leading to generally poor management of council finances and to
problems of cost recovery. At the other extreme, the posts of engineer and
SHHA Director remained in the hands of the same well qualified and experienced
officers for the duration of the project, and the success in implementing the
physical components of the project attest to their good work. The presence of
the Urban Development Coordinator in Francistown was also an important factor
in this.
Land Tenure
4.23      One of the most important institutional innovations under the
project was the introduction of a formal urban tenure system--the Certificate
of Rights (COR)--appropriate to lower-income households, that would provide
security to the beneficiary while at the same time establishing requisite
authority and procedures for dealing with households defaulting in their
obligations under the COR. This has proven to be a gradual process, with the
initial COR's lacking the necessary eviction powers. One of the consequences
has been the difficulties experienced with cost recovery. The COR in its
final form underwent many transformations from the original, before being
reissued in 1979 without, however, any eviction clause. Finally, the



- 31 -
Stateland (Amendment) Act of 1980 was enacted, empowering the Town Councils
to bring effective court action against defaulters, and the Minister of Local
Government and Lands to lay down formal regulations covering such action.
Consequently, the necessary machinery has only relatively recently been put
in place. The current eviction proceedings now depend on government resolve
in carrying them out.
4.24       With the plot demarcation difficulties experienced in upgrading and
settlement areas, an interim tenure instrument called a Temporary Occupancy
Permit (TOP), which did not need formal demarcation or approval of drawings,
was drawn up. The TOP is, in principle, renewable every year. In practice
the administrative procedures to do so are lacking. This further complicated
tenure and cost recovery problems. However, with recent improvements in
organizing the use of aerial surveys for plot demarcation, the TOP is a use-
ful device for facilitating early plot allocation and occupation, provided
its application is limited to a short transition period.
4.25       The COR was designed for site and services, upgrading, and settle-
ment housing areas. In addition a fixed term grant (FTG), a renewable resi-
dential lease of 99 years, was provided for high cost residential plots as
were fixed-term leases of 50 years for industrial and commercial plots. These
tenure procedures were followed according to terms and conditions expected at
appraisal.
4.26       A discussion is currently underway in Botswana on conversion from
COR to FTG.   The main arguments for conversion are:  (a) standardization
of tenure; and (b) removal of association of COR with low-cost, low-income,
housing; and (c) access to mortgage monies from a bank or building society.
Clearly the Francistown project experience has contributed to the reassessment
now underway on the tenure question and to exploration of a wider variety of
options than currently exists. The main arguments against are: (i) cost;
(ii) the fact that, in practice, no greater protection or security is offered
under the FTG; and (iii) the COR discourages speculation on land earmarked for
underprivileged groups.
B. FTC's Financial Performance and Project Replicability
4.27       FTC expenditures, in line with those of other town and district
councils, are approved on an annual basis by MLGL. Historically, expenditures
were limited to available revenues, apart from a central government subsidy
towards the cost of primary education. This situation has changed since
appraisal in 1974 although not specifically as a result of the project. The
accelerated urbanization of Botswana, the increase in the level of urban ser-
vices, reduction in sources of revenue including elimination of some (e.g.,
primary school fees) and failure to increase others (e.g., rates and local
government tax), have all contributed to the change from town councils' bal-
anced budgets in the early 1970s to deficit and grant financing of expendi-
tures in 1980. Consequently the anticipated financial self-sufficiency has



- 32 -
not materialized, and the town has become more dependent on central govern-
ment assistance. This has happened despite the allowances made in the risk
analysis at appraisal (40% default rate in collection of payments from project
beneficiaries as well as a 20% decline in FTC's other major revenue sources).
Cost Recovery and Pricing
4.28      Although the Francistown project, given its regional context, has
benefited an area much wider than Francistown, the town and its inhabitants
were expected to bear about 70% of project costs, the other 30% coming from
Central Government.   In effect there has been little change from appraisal
in the source of recovery of the costs of project components (see table 4.1).
The main changes occured in transfer of certain items, such as ward offices
from the Town Council, to the central government budget. There are three
categories into which the costs can be classified. These are:
(a) Community Facilities, Technical Assistance and Primary
Infrastructure. With about 60% of project costs accounted
for by community facilities, primary infrastructure and
technical assistance the recovery of these costs followed
the usual practice in urban development projects in
Botswana. Schools, health clinics and technical assistance,
expected to benefit the nation as a whole, were charged to
Central Government, as in the Second Urban Project also.
FTC assumed the cost of markets and other facilites with
more local impact, and those aspects of primary infra-
structure (main roads and trunk services), benefiting
the community as a whole, paying for them through
general revenues. Water and electricity costs are
recovered from beneficiaries through additions to the
service charge.   Utility operations were owned by FTC
until mid-1979.
(b) High Cost Residential, Commercial and Industrial Plots.
This category was to be sold by Central Government under a
Fixed Term Grant at cost plus prices, below prevailing
market rates. Surpluses generated on commercial and indus--
trial developmnt were expected to cover the costs of the
land and the offsite sewerage works included primarily for
the use of these areas.
(c) Low-Income Residential Development. The third category of
costs related to the development of sites and services,
traditional settlement plots, and squatter upgrading. Her(e
the objective was to recover at least the recurrent costs,
as well as some part of the capital costs.
4.29      As a result of high default rates and poor collections, the ability
of the FTC to implement urban development projects which are financially
replicable is still to be established although indications are that substan-
tial progress is being made in this regard (para. 4.18). In addition the



Table 4.1
D. COST RECOVERY AND PRICING
Sources of recovery of project costs as estimated at appraisal and actual..
----- Capital  Cost ----------              ----------        Recovery   Source __        --------
Facility                   At Appraisal       %       Actual    _%       At Appraisal                                    Actual
A.   Low-Income Residential Development          976.580        34  1.721.600    39
800 sites & services plots:
Aqua privies                             124,800         5 Deleted                 Individual Beneficiaries
On-site development                      117,780         4  5/                     Central Government              2/3 Central Govt./ 1/3 Individual Beneficiarie
Building materials                       240,000         8    175,300      4       Individual Beneficiaries        Individual Beneficiaries
1,000 traditional housing plots:
Aqua privies                             156,000         5  Deleted                Central Government
On-site development                       90,870         3 5/                      Central Government              Central Government
Upgrading existing squatter areas
affecting 1,000 households:
Aqua privies                             134,940         5 Deleted                 Individual Beneficiaries
On'site development                      112,190         4  5/                     Town Council 2/                 2/3 GOB/ 1/3 Individual Beneficiaries,
B.   Industrial, Commercial and HiRh
Cost Housing Plots                         219,440         7 5/
16 ha commercial & industrial land         176,540         6 5/                      Individual Beneficiaries        Individual Beneficiaries
25 high-cost plots                          4,2,900        1                         I individual Beneficiaries      Individual Beneficiaries
C.   Community Facilities                        561,030        20    694,900    16
School & Clinics                           175,240         6    395,700      9       Central Government              Central Government
Council & Ward Offices                     236,210         8    256,400      6       Town Council                    Central Government
Council Works Depot & Market               125,580         5      42,800     1       Town Council                    Central Government
Block-making machine                         24,000        1 Deleted                 Individual Beneficiaries            -
D.   Primary Infrastructure                      722 150        25  5/
Water                                       264,810         9  5/                    Individual Beneficiaries
Electricity                                 44,200         1    394,600      9       Individual Beneficiaries       (Town Council Rates
Sewerage                                     73,840        3  5/                     Individual Beneficiaries
Roads                                      339,300        12  .                      Town Council
E.   Technical Assistance & Engineering          426,800        14    695,600    16       Central Government              Central Government
TOTAL  2,906,000            4,376.900
1/  Including 307. contingencies except for items covered in para. 3.23.
2/ Central Government financing is generally limited to new development areas, leaving matters affecting existing settlements to local authorities.
3/  Recovered through water and electricity tariffs.
1/  Includes off-site and on-site infrastructure.
5/ Wholly or partially covered in 4/.



- 34 -
impact of the difficulties with project cost recovery have affected the over-
all FTC financial position.   However, there are other factors affecting FTC
finances which suggest underlying structural constraints.
Francistown Town Council Finances
4.30      Financial Position and Past Operations.  There are three areas of
particular concern regarding FTC's financial position: (a) the Town Council
has not achieved a cash operating surplus, contrary to appraisal expe!ctations;
(b) the net contribution of water and electricity tariffs to FTC's financial
results was considerable in the latter part of the 1970s. Removal of these
sources of revenue from the Council in 1979 called into question the future
independence of FTC, as foreseen at appraisal of the second urban project in
1977; and (c) the lack of buoyancy of property taxes, given expectations at
appraisal in 1974 and the decline in property values that actually took place
during the 1970s, due to political disturbances in neighboring Zimbabwe,
and economic depression of the region.
4.31        In FY72, FTC's principal revenue sources were local government
taxes (42%) and surplus on utility operations (19%) while the main expendi-
tures were on education (49%) and sanitation, roads and other infrastructure
services (30%). In FY80 by comparison, the main revenue sources were local
government taxes (27%), rates (26%) 1/ and surplus on utility operations
(24%). However, both utilities were lost to FTC during FY1980/81. Expendi-
tures were housing (9%), education (7%) and sanitation, roads and other
infrastructure services (4%).
TABLE 4.2
FTC RECURRENT INCOME AND EXPENDITURE
Year Ending March 31                       Revenue c/       Expenditure       Surplus
----------------- (P   000)  ----- _____
1974                               760                  673            87
1975                               671                  731           (60)
1976                             1,101                  881           220
1977                             1,008                1,022           (14)
1978                             1,250                1,219            31
1979                             1,730                1,535           195
1980 a/                          1,400                1,364            36
1981 b/                          1,152                1,628          (476)
a/  Subject to audit.
b/ Estimate.
c/ Includes earmarked grants for school fees.
Source: FTC Treasurer and MLGL.
1/   Estimate.



- 35 -
Taken together, water and electricity operations in Francistown have produced
a cash surplus in the past, although water had produced cash deficits prior
to 1972. The surpluses of both utilities since then had helped Francistown
maintain its current surplus. FTC now faces a problem regarding the recovery
of debts from its former utility consumers, now consumers of WUC and BPC, as
it can no longer disconnect services. To date FTC has not instituted any
legal action against defaulters.
4.32      Surpluses on electricity operations continued to contribute sig-
nificantly to FTC's revenues until takeover of the facility in July, 1979,
by the Botswana Power Corporation.   Electricity charges remained higher in
Francistown than in Gaborone throughout implementation with a 65% increase in
tariffs introduced in 1978. Changes in water tariffs were made during project
preparation in 1973, and again during implementation, in 1978, when a 50%
increase was imposed and again just prior to handing over the utility to WUC.
The earlier increase, in 1973, was not expected to eliminate subsidy and for
this reason there was agreement at appraisal for FTC to carry out a water
tariff study not later than mid-1975 with funds included in the project using
terms of reference and personnel acceptable to the Association. A scaled-down
version of this study was eventually completed, but events superseded it, with
discussions during preparation of the Second Botswana Water Supply and subse-
quently the Second Urban Project, for the takeover by WUC of the Francistown
water facility.
4.33      Future Financial Situation.  The Council's three main sources of
revenues (a) property rates, (b) local government taxes, and (c) miscel-
laneous service charges, are not expected to provide sufficient funds to
cover the expansion in quantity and quality of services in Francistown. An
urban development committee, set up to study the finances of town councils,
reported in 1978 that no worthwhile sources of additional income remained
untapped, with the possible exception of a levy on clear beer (rejected by
cabinet). The only solution available, according to the Committee, was the
grant aiding of Councils by government to subsidize the soaring costs result-
ing from the rapidly increasing demands being placed on the town councils to
provide additional social services.
4.34      If this is the case, then the problem would appear to be structural,
and for the forseeable future Francistown, like the other town councils, will
require increasing direct transfers of resources from central government.  It
was difficult at appraisal to foresee the financial situation of the town ten
years hence, given the many economic and political changes that have occurred
since the early 1970s in Botswana and in the north-east of the country. As
the mineral wealth of Botswana has become more apparent and the level of ser-
vices provided by Town Councils increased it was perhaps inevitable that a
larger share of expenditures might have to be met by central government.
4.35      However, it is not yet clear that this increased dependence is
inevitable. Substantial improvements in the project cost recovery program
are anticipated (para. 4.18). In addition, although there are no property
taxes on low-cost housing, GOB has introduced a new rates/service levy program



- 36 -
to be implemented in the towns, as part of the strategy for improving cost
recovery. Most towns currently charge a levy of between 1 and 3 Pula to plot
occupants in peri-urban areas - well below the real cost of services being
delivered in these areas. As part of its policy requiring that the towns be
financially self-sufficient, Government undertook a study of cost recovery and
recently adopted its recommendations. These require that an economic levy be
phased in, starting with P 5.00 per month from April 1, 1981 and eventually
achieving full economic charges (presently estimated at about P 10.00 per
month) by March 31, 1982). Thereafter, an annual review is to be carried out
to ensure that an economic levy be maintained in future years. This will
offset the fact that low-cost housing developments are not subject to property
taxes. Moreover, although Government, in controlling rating and other revenue
generating sources of town councils, has not allowed these to keep up with the
costs, it can gradually reverse this policy.
4.36      The revised levies are likely to have initially some impact on the
timetable for achieving reductions in default rates, given that the nominal 1
to 3 Pula charge will shortly increase 400% and then more than double one year
thereafter. While it is not clear that these increases are unaffordable, the
past pattern of resistance to making any payments at all will now be rein-
forced by the more substantial nature of these payments.
4.37      Although Government has not favored greater autonomy for the towns in
controlling their revenue generating sources (most notably property tax rates),
this still offers avenues to the towns for additional increases in r(esources.
To assist town councils in collecting outstanding property taxes, the Town
Councils (Amendment) Regulations 1981 were recently gazetted, permiting coun-
cils to apply for summary warrants of execution against delinquent properties.
4.38      At the present time the extent of the future dependence of Francis-
town (and the other towns) on Government grants is still to be determined. A
study has recently been completed by Government to review the system of sub-
sidies in Botswana in order to better understand where benefits are going and
whether there is room for this to be rationalized according to well defined
priorities.  An important part of future Bank involvement in sector or proj-
ect preparation work will be to assist in developing an appropriate balance
between local financial self-sufficiency and Central Government transfers.
4.39      Audit and Accounts.  The task of auditing FTC's accounts, always
its legal responsibility, was carried out by the Local Government Audit Office
for the first time in FY76/77, partly to give more work to that office and
partly due to the poor service being given by independent auditors. (Auditing
of the FY75/76 accounts of FTC was completed only in early FY80/81.) Control
by Government over council affairs was intended to provide safeguards against
imprudent policies and practices, including financial mismanagement. In the
event, accounting policies and practices, although somewhat improved since
the mid 1970s, are inadequate.  Production of timely information through the
accounting system is difficult, budget controls remain weak and there con-
tinues to be little or no check on the accuracy of data, not to mention its
use as an analytical tool. A thorough review of the Local Government Audit



- 37 -
Office and accounting staffing needs of town councils has been called for by
MLGL. The results of this review have not yet been published. However, it
has been decided that the localization of council staff would, in the case of
council treasurers, be waived for the foreseeable future and expatriates would
continue to be recruited for these posts.
V. BENEFITS AND BENEFICIARIES
A. Benefits
5.01      Benefits are difficult to quantify.  It is still more difficult to
demonstrate that they resulted from this particular project. Nevertheless, it
is possible to describe certain overall developments in Francistown which are
consistent with this project's success.
5.02      In 1970, employment creation was Francistown's first priority.   The
start of mining exploration in Northern Botswana generated interest by in-
dustrial and commercial enterprises to establish themselves in Francistown,
provided well-serviced land was available.   Because public funds were limited,
the Government could only provide minimally serviced land for further develop-
ment in commercial or household use. It was hoped this would stimulate further
private investment. The urban project did build vending stalls and a market
place in the central business district. These along with improved off-site
infrastructure augmented commercial development.
5.03      The principal direct benefits of the construction aspect of the
project occurred through improvement in existing housing conditions by adding
to the stock, providing serviced plots for traditional dwellings and upgrad-
ing the squatter areas. The anticipated steady expansion of the regional
economy did not fully materialize partly due to unrest in neighboring then
Rhodesia (Zimbabwe). It can be said that the project as appraised did accom-
modate most of the actual growth and the rest was included in the second
project.
5.04      One measure of growth of incomes is the comparison of household
income distributions of Francistown in 1970 and 1980. Overall, incomes have
improved, particularly for the second lowest income group as shown below:



- 38 -
Table 5A
DISTRIBUTION OF HOUSEHOLD INCOME
Francistown, Botswana
1970 and 1980
% of           %        Annual income          %         Average
households   Cumulative   1970         1980      Change      % Change
11            11       1101+      2401+       118         118
19            30     611-1100  1801-2400  195-118         156
55           85      236 -610  1001-1800  324-195         259
15          100        O.-235      0-1000    162          162
CPI               % change         % change
1970 1/ 1980            in CPI           in income
100      200              100%              +18%
100      200              100%              +56%
100      200              100%             +159%
100      200             100%               +62%
Note: Calculated by interpolation based on National Sample Survey
of 1974 and updated by the mission.
1/   CPI available only from March 1974.
5.05      Quantification of the living and health conditions is even more
difficult. Certain observations of the mission and town officials, however,
are relevant and telling of the resultant situation. First and foremost are
comments about the pride of townspeople in their homes evidenced by continual
investment in improvements in structures and gardens on their tenured plots.
The tradition of living in town only during agriculture off-seasons has given
way to a more permanent settlement as jobs and tenured housing have become
available. In sites and services areas people often have their certificate of
rights framed and hanging on the wall. Many yards have vegetable and flower
gardens. Some households run small businesses from their homes and most are
saving for further consolidation and improvements such as standpipes and pri-
vate electrical connections to their homes. The community centers, schools,
and clinics encourage a sense of citizen participation and community involve-
ment.   Clearly, having primary schools and medical services available in the
neighborhoods has greatly enhanced the quality of life.
5.06      In 1970 eighty percent of the population depended on water from
the river, or in the dry season, shallow wells dug in the riverbed. There
was virtually no sewerage disposal in areas where people were squatting.
In 1980, almost all households in the town are no more than five minutes
away from a standpipe. Although aqua privies did not prove to be a tech-
nically feasible solution, the problem of sewerage disposal has been solved
to a degree by pit latrines (para. 3.06).



- 39 -
B. Profile of Francistown Urban Project Beneficiaries
5.07      Certain explicit criteria for eligibility were stated in the
appraisal report based upon the underlying assumptions about the people
who would benefit from the project. As defined in 1974 the target groups
were to be in three income categories and the services and costs would be
appropriate to each group's ability to pay.
5.08      In order to evaluate the outcome of the project in light of the
objectives, a sample survey of beneficiaries was undertaken in September
1980 measuring the chief aspects of potential project impact: employment
and income; whether beneficiaries would be new arrivals or established resi-
dents of Francistown; house consolidation; beneficiary perceptions of SHHA
and of sanitary facilities; and payment of services. A subsequent mission
followed up the surveys with three in-depth interviews which described a
more rounded profile of the beneficiaries. The analysis of these data and
the interviews form the basis of the Project Completion Report's evaluation
of the impact of the project on beneficiaries. In Annex 4 are the summaries
of the interviews with the beneficiaries for each of the three project areas.
5.09      The findings of the sample survey confirm that the intended target
group was by and large the beneficiaries of the project. The table below
shows that the appraisal targets of income groups to be served in the new
residential areas were generally met.
Table 5B
Type                      Income Level            Number of Households
current pula/month          at appraisal  survey
1000                          1-12                     44%         62%
traditional                  13-25                     56%         28%
plots                        26-100                     0%         10%
101-200                     0%         0%
201-300                     0%          0%
800                            25                       0%          7%
S&S                          25-54                     82%
55-83                     18%        37%
26-100                     0%
101-300                     0%        39%
300                      0%         17%
Moreover, the figures in the table do not reflect any adjustments for infla-
tion. (There was 60% rate of inflation over the period 1974 to 1980.) If
inflation is taken into account for comparability, then, for example, the
category P 101-300 for sites and services would be comparable to P 41-120
in 1974 pula, which means a large proportion in the sites and services (about
80%) are in fact within the target. Also, in 1977 the ceiling of sites and



- 40 -
services eligibility criteria was raised to P 3,000. This was done with Bank
approval in response to a slowdown in applications being received as well as
to pressure from those households at this income level who had difficulty
finding affordable housing in town. It should be noted that income levels
do not reflect the "wealth" of beneficiaries who often hold cattle, the sale
of which is ofen used for major investments.
5.10      The objective that the project sites should serve existing residents
rather than attracting new migrants was satisfied. In fact, 50% of the bene-
ficiaries had lived in the town for five to ten years and 35% for more than
twenty years. There were no unnecessary delays in the process of plot allo-
cations or house consolidation according to initial estimates. In 94% of
the cases the house was built by a small contractor with aid from SHHA rather
than self-built by the occupant. There was an overwhelmingly positive response
to SHHA's role in assistance. The residents would like more satisfactory sani-
tary facilities and improved services.
5.11      While it does not appear affordability was a constraint under the
project many are in arrears in payments seemingly because they get behind
and don't bother to pay regularly.   Some are unhappy with service perfor-
mance and require improvement in their services before they are willing to
pay for them. Most object to paying increased levies for services at the
current standard.
C. Rate of Return
5.12      At appraisal, no rate of return was calculated for the project.
The demand for housing was high and the provision of security of tenure
mobilized the housing market. The benefits from investment in residential
development have been estimated on the basis of rental values. Botswana's
economy is not fully monetized, renting an entire plot is uncommon, and
government (mostly BHC) housing, is heavily subsidized. Market values
for housing and environmental improvements have been imputed from rents
paid by single lodgers and information on the BHC rents. The expected
average rental on dwellings in upgraded areas and in traditional areaLs is
P 10 per room per month. The average rental on concrete houses in site
and service areas is P 22 per room per month. This is based on the rent of
P 66 BHC collects for a three-room house.
5.13      The benefits come on stream in stages beginning in 1975 when
occupancy started in the new developments. Beginning when units are fully
built in 1979 a 5% annual appreciation rate is applied for fifteen years
as stock matures and consolidates. Thereafter the value remains constant
for the last ten years of the project. Since no economic benefit can be
assigned to community facilities, they are excluded.
5.14      In calculating costs of final contract sums attributable to bene-
ficiary groups, engineering, design, on-site infrastructure, construction,
technical assistance, supervision and maintenance have been included. Costs
associated with community facilities are excluded because the complementary



- 41 -
benefits cannot be quantified. Details of the breakdown of the cost stream
attributed to beneficiaries and benefit stream assumptions used are given in
Annex 5. The resulting rate of return of the entire project is 11.3%. 1/
As described above, the health, education, and social benefits which clinics,
schools and community centers should encourage cannot be quantified, but have
definitely enhanced the value of the housing. It should be noted that the
rental market is distorted since many renters are relatives or friends from
the same village who pay only nominal rents to the owner. This accounts for
a rate of return lower than might otherwise be obtained.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01      The Francistown Urban Project was one of the first donor assisted
undertakings in a LDC in which many of the ideas relating to urban development
that had gained currency at that time were actually implemented. The approach
of introducing modest standards, whereby resources could be more effectively
utilized and more widely distributed through, for example, sites and services
and squatter upgrading programs, was thus tested for the first time on any
scale.
6.02      The project has clearly demonstrated the soundness of this approach.
In addition, many of the reservations that standards would be too low (func-
tionally inadequate or no market appeal) were dispelled. Fears that bene-
ficiaries would not be able or willing to undertake responsibility themselves
for the satisfactory construction of dwellings have also proved groundless.
Consequently, not only has the project become the basis for urban development
policy in the country, but other aid agencies have subsequently participated
in similar projects in the country (the AID funded project in Gaborone and
Lobatse). Moreover the success of this approach has served as a major factor
influencing urban sector programs of other LDCs, particularly those receiving
bilateral or multilateral agency assistance.
A. Lessons Learned
Timing
6.03      Two aspects of the project led to considerable delays in implemen-
tation:
(a)  problems with startup resulted in delays in
initiating construction works;
1/   Because costs were difficult to disaggregate, no component-specific
rate of return is available.



- 42 -
(b)  constraints in institutional development resulted
in some of the project requirements (such as cost
recovery) not being met as scheduled, with conse-
quent delays that have had broad, sectorwide impli-
cations.
6.04      Startup.  Appraisal estimates of the construction time requirements
have proven relatively accurate. However substantial delays occurred during
preparation of detailed design and tender documents (para. 3.03). It is
usually fairly easy (as occurred in this case) to assess the construction
industry's capacity for civil works. It is generally more difficult, par-
ticularly in a first project, to establish whether capacities for managing
the design and bidding process (most notably the quality and timeliness of
design work) are adequate. In addition, in a first project, it is difficult
to anticipate unforeseen bottlenecks in the procedures preceding contract
awards.
6.05      It is important, therefore, given the above limitations, to adopt
cautious schedule estimates for the detailed design and tender document prepa-
ration stages. This became apparent through the implementation experience.
Complementing this caution, efforts to evaluate the availability and capacity
of consultants to carry out detailed design work are necessary in order to
better inform the schedule projections. Prior to the commencement of detailed
design, assistance with the preparation of a program for monitoring progress
would also contribute to more accurate estimates of implementation schedules.
The program could outline a timetable for completing design, as well as pro-
vide checks on the appropriateness of design standards.
6.06      Institutional Development.  Implementation experience demonstrated
that the project is an excellent vehicle for introducing new policies and
effecting institutional change. However these changes require the introduc-
tion of new legislation, the development of procedures for implementing these
changes, and the creation of workable legal instruments (such as COR's). What
has therefore become clear is that, given the complexity and political impli-
cations of promoting institutional development, the time required for the
changes to evolve into acceptable, workable forms is substantially longer
than the typical cycle necessary for implementation of project construction
works.
6.07      Consequently, it is necessary to develop a longer term programmatic
approach to the institutional objectives, with less ambitious intermediate
steps phased over several project cycles. Areas particularly affected would
be financial performance of institutions, cost recovery and project repli-
cability, organizational structures and staffing requirements. Issues to be
addressed would include:
(a)  the setting up of project preparation, implementation
and management capabilities that integrate with existing
institutions;



- 43 -
(b) the revising of the existing institutional framework
to accommodate these new capabilities so that the new
arrangement is a significant improvement over what was
there before;
(c) ensuring that a program for creating adequate staffing
is being developed;
(d) designing suitable tenure instruments;
(e) establishing an administrative capacity for keeping
up-to-date records;
(f) keeping these in a form in which defaulters can be
readily identified;
(g) having proper procedures in place for acting against
defaulters; and
(h) initiating programs and methods promoting communication
with and feedback from the community.
Developing a Sustained Program
6.08      Given the different cycles described above, and the programmatic
approach recommended, the preparation of sector studies from which to develop
appropriate programs is important. Particularly valuable, however, as has
been demonstrated by the Second Urban Project in Botswana, is the role of a
series of projects designed to carry through the objectives initiated by the
preceding efforts.
Strengthening Existing Institutional Framework
6.09      There is a danger of focusing attention on the setting up of special
policy and project implementation units and/or new departments without pro-
viding adequate assistance (financial, technical), etc., to existing authori-
ties. Care must be taken in designing the new units so that their functions
are clearly distinguishable from the other existing departments. Similarly
the current capabilities of the existing department should be carefully eval-
uated and strengthened as necessary, both from the point of view of their
general performance as well as in relation to the impact of the project.
The project should therefore address the integration of new departments into
existing agencies and focus on the performance of the whole.
Training
6.10      This is clearly central to the success of any sector program, partic-
ularly if continuity and replicability are to be established and the reliance
on expatriate assistance is to be diminished. The problem is evident at all
levels. The difficulty of attracting experienced local professional staff to
the public sector is an intractable problem that must be addressed over the
longer term. However, major strides in improved institutional performance
could be achieved with attention being focused at the para-professional and



- 44 -
clerical staff levels. On-the-job, skill specific training programs with
constant feedback to identify problem areas and devise ways of overcoming
them is essential to achieve this. In Botswana, for example, such efforts
have been initiated in the SHHAs, but this needs to be further developed and
expanded to include other departments in the town councils and other agencies,
as well as with existing training institutions.
6.11      To complement this effort it is necessary that the agencies have
some measure of control over hiring of staff. This is important if continuity
is to be maintained, and can significantly improve quality of staff. Training
opportunities, combined with a well thought out system of opportunities for
promotion would also substantially improve morale, particularly if the agency
has an effective role in the hiring process.
Reaching Broader Target Population
6.12      To the extent that there is an unmet demand for shelter in the
income group immediately above that for which the project is designed, then
the higher income households compete, usually more effectively, for the
shelter provisions provided under the project. It is important therefore
to include a wider range of options which also addresses the needs of the
moderate-/middle-income families who frequently seem to fall between public
and private sector activities. This group has the capacity to pay for private
sector provided shelter, and part of future projects might address strategies
for promoting private sector participation.
B. The Role of the Bank
6.13      The participation of IDA in the identification and preparation
of the Francistown Urban Project was fortuitously timed. At the time of
initial IDA involvement, Government was in the process of reviewing its urban
policies. Consequently, IDA was able to make a substantive contribution and
a fruitful dialogue with Government was established. Government officials
consider that IDA's input was valuable and an important factor influencing
the policies that have subsequently been adopted countrywide.
6.14      Over the course of implementation, although excellent working rela-
tions were maintained, the role of IDA seems to gradually have begun to be
perceived differently at local and central government levels. At the local
level, officials indicate that IDA staff played an important role in assist-
ing with substantive technical and financial problems as they occurred during
implementation. These officials also saw IDA as frequently acting as facili-
tator in overcoming administrative bottlenecks - often between central and
local government departments. At central government level, officials, while
indicating similar attitudes, have also expressed reservations about the
demands placed by IDA missions on their time. Some resentment was also ex-
pressed about "interference" by IDA officials. Furthermore, the change-over
of IDA project officers was seen as creating problems with continuity.



- 45 -
6.15      In general, the progress being made in the more difficult areas
of project implementation (cost recovery, staffing) is attributable to the
good working relationship that developed between IDA and government officials,
to the efforts of Government, and to the careful supervision undertaken by
IDA. There are several instances where assistance during supervision missions
might have improved implementation and these have been discussed in the main
body of the report.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
BOTSWANA: FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 471-BT)
BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimates               Actual Cost
Pula        US$ 1/               Pula   US$ 2/
('000)      ('000)               ('000)  ('000)
Civil Works                     1,485.8      2,228.7             1,721.6  2,186.4
Power and
Street Lighting             192.4         288.6              394.6    501.1
Community Facilities              561.0        841.5               694.9    882.5
Building Materials                240.0        360.0               175.3    222.6
Technical Assistance and
Engineering Supervision  430.8          642.2               695.7    883.5
TOTAL          2,910.0      4,365.0             3,682.1  4,676.1
1/   Rate of Exchange at appraisal:  Pula 1.00 = US$ 1.50.
2/   Rate of Exchange in 1980:  Pula 1.00 = US$ 1.27.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
Appraisal   Estimates             Actual
Pula         US$                Pula
('000)       ('000)             ('000)
COST OF CIVIL WORKS
Water and Sewerage                712.9       1,069.4              746.0
Roads, Storm Water Drainage
and Bridges                     430.0         645.0              840.3
Water, Storm Water Drainage
and Roads for Aerodrome
Area                                  -             -              135.3
Sub-total       1,142.9       1,714.4           1,721.6
Contingencies         42.9         514.3                 -
TOTAL           1,485.8       2,228.7           1,721.6
COST OF POWER AND STREET LIGHTING
Main Electrical Works            148.0         222.0                327.9
Aerodrome Area                      -              -                 66.7
Sub-total            148.0         222.0                394.6
Contingencies         44.4          66.6                  -
TOTAL            192.4         288.6                394.6



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Table
Appraisal   Estimates             Actual
Pula         US$                Pula
('000)       ('000)             ('000)
COST OF COMMUNITY FACILITIES
Town Council Offices              150.0         225.0
Clinics, Ward Offices
and Works Depots                112.0         168.5              256.3
Monarch P. School                 107.0         160.5              187.1
Aerodrome P. School                  -              -              208.6
Market and Vending Stalls          43.8           65.7              42.9
Block-making Machine               20.0          30.0                 -
Sub-total            433.1         649.7              694.9
Contingencies        127.9         191.8                 -
TOTAL             561.0         841.5             694.9
COST OF BUILDING MATERIALS
Building Materials               200.0         300.0                175.3
Contingencies         40.0          60.0                  -
TOTAL            240.0         360.0                175.3



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
Appraisal   Estimates             Actual
Pula         US$                Pula
('000)       ('000)             ('000)
COST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Design and Supervision             149.0        223.5              291.0
Water Tariff Study                  20.0         30.0
Project Coordinator,
Salary                         36.0         54.0              98.2
Assistance to self-help
Housing Agency (SHHA)         154.0        231.0             166.8
Sub-total               359.0        538.5              556.0
Contingencies            71.8        107.7
SHAA Management Advisor 1/            -                             19.1
Engineering and Planning
Studies for Urban II
Project                                                      102.6
Consultant Economist
for Urban II Project
Preparation                      -        _18.0
TOTAL                   430.8        646.2              695.7
1/   100% Government financed.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
Accumulated Disbursements
(US$ '000 equivalent)
IDA Fiscal                                               Actual Disbursement
Year and        Appraisal          Actual                as % of Appraisal
Semester        Estimate           Disbursement          Estimate
1974
1st.
2nd.                    375                -                      0.0
1975
1st.                  1,065              594.6                   55.8
2nd.                  1'747           1,038.7                    59.5
1976
1st.                  2,363           1,589.2                    67.3
2nd.                  2,751           1,945.2
1977
1st.                  2,937           2,295.5                    70.7
2nd.                  3,000           2,553.5                    85.1
1978
1st.                                  2,882.3                    96.1
2nd.                                  2,968.2                    98.9
1979
1st.                                  3.000.0                   100.0
2nd.



BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: CONPLETION REPORT
FRANCISTOWN COUNCIL (FTC)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 1972-1980 (Pula '000)
1972   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
At March 31                (Dec. 31) (15 mos)
ASSETS                                    ------ Actual -------------------------------------------------
----- Audited ----------
Current Assets                                                              /b
Accounts Receivable                                   /          /a    379-         221       256         721
Cash & Investments                                 336-La    306-      147          466       694         995
Subtotal                                   336        306       526          466       694         995
Capital Outlay                                       94         87      315          213       639       1,556
Deferred Charges                                                                     52        52          53
Property, Vehicles & Plant (net                    559        645    1,573        1,539    1,393          285
of depreciation)
Subtotal                                   653        732    1,888         2,270    2,084       1,894
Total Assets                           990      1,038    2,414        2,736    2,522        2,889
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities                                  33         51      225          128        74          50
Long-Term Loans                                     161        171      888        1,052    1,034        1,507
Equity:
Discharged Capital Outlay                         (796        816    1,149          895    1,414        1,332
Revenue Account Surplus                           ( _                  152          195
990     1,038    2,414         2,270    2,522        2,889
/a Includes Dumela land and improvement for resale.
/b Including R 279,478.12 for rates.
HtTI



BOTSWANA
FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: CONPLETION REPORT
FRANCISTOWN COUNCIL (FTC)
INCOME STATEMENT 1972-1980
(P'OOO)
1972   1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
Year Ending March 31        Candr(5os
Calander (15 mos)
Revenues                                                                                                                /b
Utility Charges (net)                     42.1   (53.3)       21.9    161.5       166.0    67.0       589.6   (41.0)-
Local Government Taxes                    91.2   149.2       147.9    159.9       157.2   248.8       339.2   305.0
Property Taxes (Rates)                    19.2    12.9       122.6    378.3       270.4   258.2       312.2   337.9
Other Local Taxes                         65.9   196.2       135.8    369.8       213.2   225.9       461.0   265.7
Total Revenues                   218.4   305.0       428.2  1,069.3       806.8   799.9   1,702.0   867.6
Expenses                                                                                                                        n
Operating Costs                          148.6   278.9       501.9    873.8       508.3   588.2   1,176.3
Contribution to Capital                   40.9    69.7        14.8       0.8       11.7    39.7        49.4
Debt Service                               2.4      6.3        9.5       9.4       21.8   101.7        76.4
Total Expenses                   191.9   354.9       526.2    884.0       541.8   729.6   1,302.1
Surplus (Deficit) on Municipal              26.6   (49.9)      (98.0)   185.3       265.0    70.3       399.9  (235.9)
Operations                                             /a
Grants                                       5.8   137.5-        8.2      26.5        -         ?        28.4
Net Surplus                       32.4    87.6       (89.8)   211.8       265.0    70.3       428.3
Population (in thousands)                                                            26.1    27.6
Per Capita Revenue                                                                   24.6    27.6
Per Capita Expenditure                                                               20.8    26.4
/a Including R 50,000 IDA Grant.
lb Excluding electricity, taken over by Botswana Power Company in July 1979.
(D



Housohold Monthly RerpaymuLts
(ln Rand)
Total Cost and Paymnont                                   Monthly Paynent as a Porcentage or Income
Target Income         % of Target
Payment per              Target         Group broken           Group in    Total Monthly
Cost/Plot/         Household/              Income             into                  each         Payment/@
Month    .           Month                 Gronp          two categories          Category   of Cash Income
(R)                  (R)                 R/Yonth           R per month
APR.     Actual      APR.      Actualj.   APR      Actual      APR    Actual                     APR
800 Sites and Services
On-3ite De-elopnent            0.99         2.59      -                                       25 - 54   25-100       82      44    14
Building ;:aterials            2.92        4.20      2.92        2.20     25 - 83   25-300
PIivy                          1.52                  1 .40 L2                                 55 - 83  101-300       18     56      8
Recurrent Services            1 .140 13    6.00/5    1.40       1.90
TOTAL            6.63       12.79      5.72       4.10                                                100    loo
1,000 Traditional Plots
Cn-Site Development             .61        1.29        -
Building Xaterials              -                                                              1 - 12      1-12     44      62    22         L
Privy                          1.52                    _                  Under 25
Recurrent Services             1.40                   1.'40      1.90                 Under  13 - 25   13-100    56         38      8
100
TOTAL            3.53                   1.40                                                         100    100
1 ,CjDO Upgraded Househiolds
On-Site Develop;aent            .75                    -
Duilding Naterials              -                      -1 - 55    1-55   .1 - 25                                    45             23 A
Privy                          1.52                   1 .40 /2l and over and over 25 - 55    N.A.                         N.A.
Recurrent Services             1 .410                 1.40                                    and over              40
TOTAL            3.67                   2.80                                                          85
/I  Terrais assumaed are as follows;   On-Site Development (water, ronds, drainage, street lightipg) - 7% and 30 years                     1
Building materials  -  8% and 15 years                                                              > 
Privy                -  8% and 15 years
/2  After a downpayinent of R12.
a  Recurrent costs include water, garbage collection, public conveniences, road maintenance, street lights anud administration.
The apportionment of recurrent costs for vwater operatioxis wemong inoonie groups contains a cross-subsidy from the upper to
the lower income groups (see Annex 6).  The charge for rec ; u".t co;ts in low-income residential areas is in lieu of rates.
1-  Caly chose with incomes of K12 can afford the payments.
/5 At present reassessment of cost.



54                                                        ANNEX  3
Page 1
LG. TOP. 1.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PERMIT
Issued on the ...................                           day of .............                   .
by the ..                                                                                Town Council undes the
authority of the President of the Repubiic of BoEswana m terms of the Stare Land Act (Cap. 32:01) as amended.
The ...................................................   Town Council (hereinafter referred to as the
Council) grant to:-
Name: ...........................................................
Address: ..... ............ .....................
........................................................
(hereinafter referred to as tne Occupier)
This Temporary Occunancv Perit authorising the occupation of the premises known as .......................
................................................................................................
(hereinafter called thc pre-nises) by the Occupier from the dare hereof unol he 3 1st March, 197  ... ,ubject to
the foilowing obiigations, terms and conciucors:
1.
rne premises shall only be used for privace rtsidenial purposes by the occunpier ainself or such other purpose as may
be aurhorised by Council in wrning;
2. (a)
The Occupier shall nor do or oermic or suffer to be done on the premises any act or thing which shall or may cause
dama=eor nuisance or annoyance to the Council or to the occupanrs of any neighbouring premnises:
2. (b)
The Occupier shall noc erect or effect any de,eloo-ment or imorovemenm whatscever on the orenises without tne
written consent of the Council;
3.
Tne preniscs or anv portion iCXrSof snall not be leased, franxe-ed or sublet without the wdr<' consent oi the
Counc;il
4. (a)
The Occupier shail pay -o the Council a reg,aiar ser.icz payrnent n consideration of te r-ighm hererby granted to
him and for the services crovided or o be orovideti by the Council to the ore-nises in respect of which dthis Ted.nporarv
Occu anc  Pernic is gante: and .o the locai;ryv n respec. or which tese prerises are situaced;
4. (b)
rn. e   co pov--t. r::.^rrei -o in 4 z a) abrove :or the rignhs .o Je zranted bythe Counci -c the Oc      in ter-ns oi
4 ai shall be the sum o ? ...n.......per  onto wc  shal x   a   n dvance  ot later rhan ihe .rst working
day of each mnonth cormmencirg from the ..ay.....            ..... la  Cl ..        .... .o... ...... ..
at the orFces Cf the Council or such ocher ciace as che Counci mayv in wr-iing rotifv the Occupjer. The Council
may with ithe written anorovai ohte Minister of Local Government and Lanc-s varyv such sernice paynmenc on girLng
to the Occuoier noc lees tnan :ourte   14 ) days writte  notice of such vararon:



-55                                             ANNEX 3
Page 2
;.
Without prejudice to the rights of the Council under Clause 6 thereof Failure to oay the seruice payments under
Clause 4 shall render the Occupier Liable to Civil Action for the-recovery thereof;
6.
Should the Occupier commit or permit the commission of a breach of any of the clauses of this Te-nporary Occu-
pancy Permit and fail to remedy 3uch breach within thirty (30) days after notice im wnting requiring him to remedy
the breach, then the Council shall be entitled notwithstanding any previous waiver or anything to the contrary
herein contained, to canced this Temporary Occupancy Permit forthwith and to recover possession of the premises
without prejudice to it clain for any arrears of service payments and in the event of such cancellation the Occupier
ihall have n- claim whatsoever whether for damages or otherwise. aginst the Council; -
7. (a)
The Council shall, ucpn being so directed bv the Minister of Local Government and Lands that the prernises are
required for public purposes, be entifled o cancel this Temporary Occupancy Perrmit provided that the Council
gives to the Occupier not les than thirty (30) days nocice in writing and in that event the Occupier shall be paid the
current rrarket price bor the premises as determined by the Director ofSurvevs and Lands;
7. (b)
Public ourposae means one or other of che following purposes:
(i) in the interest of defence, public safety, public order, public morality, public health, town and country
planning or land settlements; or
(ii) in order to secure the development or utilisation of that or other properrv For a purpose beneficial co the
community;
The Occuoier shall nodiv che Council in wridtng of his intention to vacace the premises, whereupon this Temporary
Occupancy Permnit shall be canceiled and the obligations to pay the service payments hereunder shall cease with
.eo-;crrom me i5rst cay ofthe month next following;
9.
-Any notice or cancellation under clauses 4, 6 and 7 hereof shall be deemed to have been validly givea by the Council
to the Occupier after che Council serves the notice on the Occupier personaily or afnxes such notice or cancellation
upoorr-e premises so chat its 'leariy visibie:
10.
This Temporary Occurancy PerEit shall noc be cransferred, ceded or hvpothecated by the Occupier and shall
determnine on the 31st Mvarch above-mentioned, and may be renewed annuallv by the Council;
11.
Should the Occupier be aggrieved by the decision or the action of the Council in relation to his Temnporary Oc-
cupancy PerTnit, the Occupier shall have a right to appeal to the Minister of Local Government and Lands through
the District Commissioner within one month from the date of Council's decision and the Mvinister's decision shall
be 6inal and bindiing on both the Occupier and the Council.
Neither Council nor the Occunier shail in chat veienc have any right whatsoever co make an appeal co anv other
body or person in respect of che same grievance which has bee: se:ted bv te Minister.
I acknowledge receipc of a copy of Chis Temporary Occupancy Permic and accept tne obligations. :errs and con-
ditions rhereof.
5IGNATRUJE OF OCCLtX . .....................................................
SiGNAPTRZE OrF WrN -SS  is .....................................................
2  .   ........ . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .  . .  . . .
THUS DONE AND SiGNED AT ..........................   his .
dayof ..........................                               . 9
SIGNATLTRE OF AL'HORiSE  COUNCI.          ........



-56 -                                                                ANNEX 3
Page 3
RENEWALS
,his Temporary Occupancy Pernit is hereby renewed For one year with effect fom the .. day of
........I..................... .                19    .................. 1,
Signarure of Occupier:.............. ..........
Date.    .         .......     .....     .............  .........
Wimesses ........................
Thir, Temporary Occupancy Permit is hereby renewed for one year with effect f£om the .day of
......................... 197 .
Signature of Occupier: -..                        ..
Date:  ....                    .......                       .....             -
Witn=es: ..                .... .. .....
..............................................



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
Interviews with Project Beneficiaries
Sites and Services
1.        Mr. Macheng Macheng, a resident of area "W" was interviewed.  He is
the original plotholder and lives with his family (wife and 4 children) on the
plot in the five room house he had built by a contractor. Formerly, he lived
in Riverside South in a house he had built himself on land which he didn't own
and was supposedly to be reclaimed.   He wouldn't have moved had it not been
for the introduction of the scheme since there was no low-cost serviced land
available in Francistown. By word of mouth he heard about the scheme in 1975,
attended the preliminary meetings and learned about the eligibility criteria. 1/
His application was approved and the allocation proceedings went efficiently
and quickly. He left his former unserviced house in the squatter area to his
sister, and proceeded to have the new house on the serviced plot built.
Within one year of plot allocation his house was complete and he moved in.
His plot is large but normal by Batswana village standards, about 400 sq.
meters. The house cost P 3,000 to build, including materials. He did not
request a building materials loan which was available for up to P 600 at that
time. Clearly, he had substantial savings and, as is often the case, this
arises from cattle holdings of the family. When he lived in Riverside South
on the main road he had had more visibility, increasing business, and con-
sequently his income as a self-employed radio repairman had been higher. He
reports his income in the new location, P 150/month, is almost half what it
was. This is sufficient, he says to meet expenses and his wife doesn't work.
One gets the impression there is a reliable source of   income, probably
cattle, available for small investments from time to time. Last year he
requested the water company to install a standpipe on his plot, even though
the community water pipe is on the corner just outside his plot boundaries.
It is not clear whether he pays the monthly water tariffs although he paid to
have the installation, and couldn't recall exactly the price.  Two years ago
he had a toilet and septic tank installed for about P 2,000. Again he paid
outright from "savings." He had a local contractor do that work except for
digging the pit which he did himself. A major constraint in both construction
jobs was locating a contractor who was capable and willing to stay on the
job. His decision to choose a septic tank over other alternatives - pit
latrine - seemed to be based on availability of cash for the most modern and
best quality solution.
2.        His situation with regard to payments of service levy is poor.  He
thinks he's about six months in arrears, but isn't sure and although he says
he should pay he doesn't get around to going to the Ward office. If the
1/   Criteria:  Income P 300 - P 1500 per annum.
Francistown resident, 18+ years old, citizen Botswana, registered tax-
payer.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
levy goes up he thinks it will be too high. He is pleased with SHHA for the
technical assistance during construction, he likes this area better because
of the roads and drainage, he complains that refuse collection isn't frequent
or thorough enough.
Monarch Settlement Area
3.        Eleanor Khupe, wife of Pius Khupe, lives in a rondavel she built
herself on a serviced plot in Monarch. The plot is in her husband's name.
He is a school teacher at a primary school about eight kilometers frcm the
house. Since there are housing facilities there he often spends the night
away from home. Mr. Khupe is in his early fifties and his wife is 42. Their
four children are in boarding secondary schools and come home only fcr school
holidays.
4.        In 1975, the family was renting a place in Bluetown for P 8 month.
She was working at Everest Textile mill earning P 42 month as a knitter.
Then she often suffered from roundworms. Now she no longer has them because
of medicine she got from the local clinic. When she heard about the scheme
she asked her husband to apply. His income of P 250 qualified him for a
plot in the settlement area. Mrs. Khupe quit her job and personally under-
took to build the first rondavel on the large plot (400 sq. meters). She
subsequently built two more rondavels. Building materials loans weren't
available in Monarch and the traditional materials she needs were either
gathered or cost very little, she recalls. There were 3 month delays in
processing but once they were allocated their plot, the next day she began
to build a rondavel. The biggest difficulty in construction was and still
is obtaining poles and thatch. She is willing to pay service levies and
would continue at increased rates if services were improved, primarily trash
collection. One rondavel she rents for P10 month to a woman who works as a
cleaner. The other she uses for preparing and eating food. She hand knits
which earns her about P 30 month on average since it is now too far to go to
work daily in the mill. She used her savings from her earnings to have a pit
latrine put on the property this past year. She hired a man to dig the hole
for P 25 and paid to have the superstructure built according to the plan she
purchased from SHHA for P 2.
5.        Her yard is immaculate with a small vegetable garden in one corner.
Her husband contributes little to the household although he could afiford to.
She pays her service levy of P 1.40 month each month at the ward office and
has attended all meetings held to discuss community affairs. She is con-
cerned that refuse isn't collected very regularly and often buries her own
garbage to avoid attracting animals to the plot. Drainage along the side of
her plot has been a problem which she complained to SHHA about so far without
satisfaction. The temporary occupancy permit is a document which reassures
her and has provided the incentive to make the improvements she has. She is
pleased about the technical assistance SHHA has provided and the comrnunity
meetings which provided a forum for citizens' views as well as new information
about procedures in the scheme.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
Tatitown Upgrading Area
6.        Grace Situme, has been a resident of Tatitown since 1963, and a
resident of Masimenyenga, a village near Francistown, before that. She moved
from that area because it was periodically affectcd by flood to Tatitown. She
is over fifty years old with two grown children in England. They send her
about P 50 month since she is unable to work. With this she is able to buy
food and pay her service levy every month. She has used the health clinic
frequently because of TB and an appendicitis attack. Her house is of mud
and makeshift materials. Upgrading took place while she was resident and for
her the significant change the project introduced was more standpipes and
improved roads. There are no streetlights where she lives and this is the
first priority improvement she would want and is willing to pay for. She
also hopes to build a better house someday on the same plot and would like
building materials loans to become available.



- 60 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
Francistown Urban Project
Benefit and Cost Streams
(in Pula 000's)
Year      Total Cost           Total Benefit                Net Benefit
1          616,000              52,000.00                -564,000.00
2          633,500             104,000.00                -529,500.00
3          340,500             136,000.00                -204,500.00
4           28,000             136,000.00                  108,000.00
5           28,000             149,200.00                 121,+00.00
6           28,000             156,660.00                 128,660.00
7           28,000            164,493.00                  136,493.00
8           28,000             172,717.62                 144,717.62
9           28,000            181,353.50                  153,353.50
10           28,000             190,421.16                  162,421.16
11           28,000             199,942.22                  171.942.22
12           28,000             209,939.31                  181,939.31
13           28,000             220,436.28                  192,436.28
14           28,000             231,458.09                  203,458.09
15           28,000             243,031.00                  215,031.00
16           28,000             255,182.53                 227,182.53
17            28,000            267,941.62                  239,941.62
18           28,000             281,338.69                  253,338.69
19           28,000             295,405.62                  267,405.62
20-30        28,000             310,176.00                 282,176.00
Internal Rate of return for net stream:  11.256%.



- 61--                        ANNEX 5
Page 1
Notes on Assumptions used to Calculate Rate of Return
This exercise is done only at end of project using actual costs
and estimated benefits over 30 year period.
1. Cost assumptions. Start-up capital investment and costs for technical
help in setting up institutions and supervising are apportioned to project
in year expended according to final contract sums.
1978-
1975    1976    1977    2005
A.  Civil works:  P 698,000                         10%     40%      20%
B. Construction: P 675,000
BML P 175,000                                 30%      40%     30%
Savings P 450,000                             33%      33%     33%
C.  Sanitation:  P 150,000                         50%      50%
D.  Technical assistance:  P 44,000                 50%     50%
E.  Supervision:  P 73,000                          50%     50%
F.  Operating & Maintenance:  P 756,000                                      3.7
Total (in Pula '000)                        616.0   633.5   340.5   756.0
Notes:
A.   Civil works were computed on the basis of proportion of on-site costs of
residential components to total costs of all construction items as esti-
mated at appraisal. 44% of final contract sums (P 2,116,000) for civil
works were for housing development = P (931,000). 75% of P 931,000 or
P 698,000 were charged to project.
B.   Construction costs of housing came from two sources:  BML were taken by
55% of householders in sites and services and household savings for the
other 45%. P 175,000 was expended from BML and an additional P 150,000
household savings totalling P 325,000. In traditional areas where loans
were not available, it was estimated each rondavel costs P 100 and there
were 3,000 built = P 300,000       P 625,000 charged to project.
C.   Sanitation units usually pit latrines cost P 85 each to build.  All sites
and services and traditional were required to have them.  P 85 X 1,800
plots = P 150,000.
D.   Technical assistance included costs associated with setting up SHHA in
FTC, P 284,100.  (Prep. of Urban II excluded).  The portion of technical
assistance used for residential development within the project was com-
puted to be 30% per appraisal items. One half was charged to the project
since benefits also accrued to second project and the town in general.
15% of P 284,000 = P 44,000.



- 62-                         ANNEX-
Page 2
E.   Supervision was apportioned according to ratio of civil works for residen-
tial development to all civil works. 25% of P 291,000 = P 73,0C)0.
F.   Operating and maintenance was allocated at 4% of civil works anrLually from
and of construction 1978 for project life. 4% of P 698,000 = P 28,000 for
27 years, P 756,000.
G.   Community facilities were deleted from project costs since benefits were
not quantifiable.



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
2. Benefits Assumptions
Imputed Rental                                                      1979-  1995-
Values at 1979 Prices       1975   1976   1977   1978    1979   1994   2005
A.   Sites & services       22      44      66      66       79.2
B.   Traditional            10      20      30      30      30   appre-
ciate at
5% til
1994
C.  Upgraded                20      40      40      40      40
Total            52    104    136    136        149.2   -         295.4
A.  800 site and service plots x 4.5 rooms per plot average = 3,600 at
P 22 per room = P 79,200.
B. 1,000 plots x 3.0 rooms.per plot average = 3,000 at P 10 per room
= P 30,000.
C. 1,000 plots x 4.0 rooms.per plot average = 4,000 @ P 10 per room
+ P 40,000.
Note: These rooms come on stream as ready for occupancy in the cases of
A  and B    i.e., 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 3,000, 3,600 until end of
project.  For C   rental value in 1975 is P 5 per room because
improvements not complete.



- 64 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 1
Table 1
Plot Allocations
Site and Service      Plot-       Plots          Right of            Plots
Area          Serviced   Allocated   Occupancy Granted   Occupied
"W"'            316         300              300             300
"S"             224         217              217             217
"L"             151         143              143             143
Aerodrome          145         140              140              140
TOTAL        836 1/      800              800             800
1/   The difference in the total number of plots serviced and those allocated
is because the former includes plots designated as "open space," those
difficult to develop, and those for cottage industries.
Table 2
Income Range of Persons Allocated S&S Plots
(in Pula)
Area     Less than 300   300-1000   1000-1500   1500-2500   Above 2500   Total
wl"              6           203           77          13             1         300
si"              4           126           71          15             1         217
L"               -            38           67          34             4         143
Aerodrome        4            76           34          16             8         140
14           443          249          78            14        800
Table 3
Percentage of Allocations in Income Groups
(in Pula)
Area       Less than P1000         P1000-P2500         Above P2500
"lW"t             80%                   20%                nil
"W"'              63%                   36%                 1%
"S"               60%                   40%                nil
"'L"'             26%                   71%                 3%
Aerodrome         87%                   36%                 6%
Overall           58%                   41                  2%



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
Table 4
FRANCISTOWN PROJECT OUTPUT
Number         Total                                 Number of
Area              of Plots      Expenditure          Cost Per Plot  People Assisted
(Pula)   (US$)   (Pula)   (USS)
Sites & Services Areas       851 1/ 310,143       403,186    364 2/  473         3,680
Traditional Areas          1,500    129,242       168,015      87      113       7,500
Up-Grading Areas           1,150    143,007       185,909    125       163       5,750
3,501    582,392       757,110                      16,930 3/
1/   Including commercial and "open-space" plots.
2/   Excluding engineering and design.
3/   58% of Francistown's 1980 population.
Source: UDC's report prepared 1/23/80 for Mr. McNamara's visit



- 66 -
ANNEX 6-
Page 3
Table 5
Distribution of Household Incomes, 1979
Annual Income        Number of households          Percentage of
(Pula)                                            households          Cumulative
1,600+              224                          6.4                  6.4
661-1,600                296 (2)                      8.5                 14.9
301-  680                789                         22.8                 37.7
201-  300                380                         11.0                 48.7
200             1,074                         31.0                 79.7
708                        20.3                100.0
Total                     3,471                        100.0
Source: 1970 Francistown Planning Proposals
1970 Population of 16,000, hh size 4.6
Table 6
Distribution of Household Incomes, 1980
Annual Income        Number of households          Percentage of
(Pula)                                            households          Cumulative
2400+                       715                          11.0                11
1800 - 2400               1,235                          19.0                30
1000 - 1800               3,575                          55.0                25
0                        975                          15.0               100
Total                     6,500                         100.0
Source:  Sample                    1980, IBRD, CSO.
1980 Population 30,000 hh size 4.6.



- 67 -                        ANNEX 7
BOTSWANA
Country Exchange Rates
Name of Currency                        South African Rand (R) until          1976;
changed to Pula (P)
Appraisal year average                  US$1 = R.66         R1=US$1.52
Intervening years average               US$1 = P.83        P1=US$1.20
Completion year average                 US$1 = P.76        P1=US$1.32
Country                                 Botswana
Citizens of Botswana                    Botswana
Individual citizen                      Botswana






iif                oi *
S    s                                                         S &  .  A   -   e r   stage s   o  const r tio
BOTSWANA: FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sites & Services Area - early stages of construction






A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~- 4:w
BOT SWANA: FRANCT STOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monarch Area - traditional iousing






'bx ~~~~ ~                                                               i
- -                             I _ . |                                                                                              w w
_r7F
BOTSWANA: FRANCISTOWN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tatitown Upgrading Area



