Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE ~~
Report No. P-3500-M14
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND LOAN IN AN AMOUNT OF
US$40 MILLION
TO MAURITIUS
FOR
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
November 16, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Annual                     1 Rupee                        1 US$
Average                    =   US$                      -  Rupees
1975                      0.1659                        6.0268
1976                      0.1497                       6.6824
1977                      0.1515                       6.5996
1978                      0.1628                       6.1410
1979                      0.1562                       6.4017
1980                      0.1300                       7.6896
1981                      0.1100                       9.0911
1982                      0.0920                       10.8990
1983 (Jan-Sept)           0.0824                       12.1330
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                                     0.62 mile
1 square kilometer           =                  0.3861 miles
1 hectare                                       2.47 acres
1 arpent                                        1.043 acres
1 metric ton                                    1.102 short ton
1 metric ton                                    0.984 long ton
1 kilogram                                      2.205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CHA      -          Central Housing Authority
DBM      -          Development Bank of Mauritius
DWC      -          Development Works Corporation
EPZ      -          Export Processing Zone
MEDIA    -          Mauritius Export Development and
Investment Authority
MEFF     -          Mauritius Equity Financing Fund
MGTO     -          Mauritius Government Tourist Office
PSIP     -          Public Sector Investment Program
TDA      -          Tea Development Authority
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MAURITIUS - SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN SUMMARY ...................................................       i & ii
INTRODUCTION ..................................................            1
I. THE ECONOMY.                                                            1
A.  Main Features of The Mauritian Economy.                          1
B.  Economic Developments in the 1970's.                            2
C. Recent Economic Developments.                                    3
D.  The Need for Structural Adjustment.                             5
II.    THE FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN.                               8
A. The Program.                                                     8
B. Progress Achieved.                                               9
III.   THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN           .       .          12
A.  The Program for Export-Led Industrialization ........           13
B.  The Program for Tourism Development ....       .............   18
C.  The Program for Agricultural Diversification    ........       20
D.  Promotion of Employment ..............................         21
E.  Public Resource Management ..........................           23
IV.  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT AND GROWTH .26
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN .36
VI.    OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS .39
VII.   LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY .........................          41
VIII.  RECOMMENDATION .........................................           41



LIST OF ANNEXES
I. Social and Economic Data Sheets
II. Status of Bank Group Operations in Mauritius
III. Statement of Development Policy
IV. Supplementary Project Data Sheet
V. Industrial Policy Review
VI. Changing the Tax Structure
VII. Restructuring the Tea Development Authority



MAURITIUS
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:            Government of Mauritius
Amount:              $40 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee).
Terms:               17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Program
Description:         The proposed loan would finance essential imports and
support the second phase of the Government's structural
adjustment program which aims at improving the
balance of payments position in the medium term while
accelerating the growth of output and employment.
The second phase of the program includes (i) a program
for export-led industrialization; (ii) a program for
tourism development; (iii) a program for agricultural
diversification; (iv) measures to promote employment
and (v) policies to improve public resource
management. The program is described in the
Government's Statement of Development Policy to the
Bank of which a copy is attached (Annex III).
Benefits:            The main benefits of the program would be to enhance
sustained growth and employment opportunities. The
program would also improve the structure of the balance
of payments and maintain creditworthiness by limiting
the country's reliance on foreign borrowing.



- ii -
Risks:               The risks of the program relate to the length and
difficulty of the adjustment process, uncertainties
regarding international economic conditions, and the
political difficulties of introducing measures, some of
which may be unpopular.
Estimated
Disbursement:      The loan would be disbursed in two tranches.  The first
tranche of US$20 million would be available for
disbursement at the time of loan effectiveness.
Disbursement of the second tranche of US$20 million
would be contingent on the satisfactory review by the
Bank of the actions enumerated in Schedule 4, draft
Loan Agreement. Disbursements for the entire loan are
expected to be completed within 18 months of loan
effectiveness.
Appraisal Report:   This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.
Map:                 IBRD 3209R  (PPA)



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND LOAN TO MAURITIUS FOR
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
INTRODUCTION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed structural adjustment loan to Mauritius for the equivalent of
US$40 million. The loan would have a term of seventeen years, including
four years of grace, at the standard variable rate of interest. The
proposed Loan would support an ongoing government adjustment program
designed to improve overall productivity of the economy, to stimulate
growth of exports, particularly those of export-processing industries,
and to strengthen the tourism and agriculture sectors. An accompanying
technical assistance loan is being submitted concurrently for your
approval.
2.        Part I of this report describes the economy.  An Economic
Memorandum entitled "Mauritius: Recent Developments and Prospects"
(No. 3857) was issued in gray cover in May 1982 and in Red Cover in January
1983. An Economic Updating Note was prepared and circulated to the Second
Mauritius Consultative Group in June 1983. Country data are given in Annex
1.  Part II sets out performance under the first Structural Adjustment
Loan. Part III presents the second structural adjustment program. Part IV
analyzes the impact of structural adjustment on growth. Parts V and VI
describe the proposed loan and other Bank Group operations in Mauritius.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Main Features of the Mauritian Economy
3.        Mauritius is an island with smaller outer islands situated in the
Indian Ocean, densely populated and with an economy dominated by sugar
production. Despite significant expansion of other sectors since the early
1970s, sugar still occupies around 90 percent of the cultivable area and
accounts for about 60 percent of export earnings. The level of economic
activity, therefore, is highly sensitive to fluctuations in sugar
production and exports. Overdependence on a single commodity also renders
the economy highly vulnerable to external shocks and disturbances.
4.        With a GNP per capita of about US$1,240 in 1982, Mauritius has
the standard of living of a middle-income developing country. Standards of
nutrition, health care, and general education greatly exceed those of
neighboring countries. The adult literacy rate is over 80 percent, life
expectancy at birth is about 65 years, and basic needs are extensively
covered. The main island of Mauritius has a population of 971,000 (1982)



- 2 -
on a land area of about 2,000 km2 just over half of which is cultivable.
The outer islands are less developed and dispersed over a wide area of the
Indian Ocean; the largest of these islands is Rodrigues, 400 miles East of
Mauritius, with a population of about 30,000 (1982).
5.        Mauritius' population is a mosaic of various ethnic groups:
about 68 percent are of Indian origin; about 29 percent is called the
general population consisting of Franco-Mauritians and people of African
or mixed descent. The Sino-Mauritian population accounts for the remaining
3 percent. This ethnic diversity is compounded by the diversity of
religious and ideological beliefs, both of which contribute to a complex
political climate. Nevertheless, despite the ethnic complexity, the
government functions in a system of parliamentary democracy and the country
has avoided the emergence of racial, religious or cultural conflicts.
6.        Mauritius enjoys a pleasant tropical climate which makes it
attractive for tourists. However, the country is subject to cyclones
between late December and March which can cause severe damage. Major
cyclones occur on average at 12-15 year intervals. The absence of mineral
resources and the distance of Mauritius from major markets, (about 6 thou-
sand miles from Western Europe; 10 thousand miles from the U.S.; and
7 thousand miles from Japan) affect the potential for economic development
and condition the choice of economic activities best suited to Mauritius.
It does not lie on the main sea routes and thus maritime transport costs
are higher in Mauritius than in countries competing for similar markets.
B. Economic Developments in the 1970s
7.        During most of the seventies Mauritius achieved high economic
growth, considerable employment generation, moderate expansion of exports
and a remarkable record in improving the welfare of its population.
Because of the small size of the domestic market, the Government recognized
that export growth was of vital importance to the economy and sought to lay
the basis for export-oriented development. This was achieved by encourag-
ing sugar production, tourism, and tea cultivation and by the establishment
of manufacturing industries in an export processing zone (EPZ). This
strategy had considerable success until the late 1970s.  The unprecedented
increase in sugar prices in 1973 and 1974 helped the economy to grow by
more than 10 percent per year between 1972-1977. During this period, the
Gross Domestic Income increased by nearly two-thirds and helped accelerate
the growth of manufacturing, construction and service sectors. Most of
the increase in sugar profits was reinvested in joint ventures with foreign
private investors. As a result, the rate of domestic investment, as a
percentage of GDP, rose from about 13 percent in 1972 to a peak of
36 percent in 1976. The rapid growth in production and exports was also
accompanied by a rapid increase in employment; in 1977 the unemployment
rate was reduced to less than 8 percent, from about 15 percent in 1972.
8.        After the decline of sugar prices in 1976, severe economic
difficulties emerged. The period 1977-79 was marked by a deceleration of
GDP and export growth.  The slowdown in the growth of exports, compounded
by a sharp increase in the price of oil in 1979, led to a rapid



- 3 -
deterioration in the balance of payments. The balance of payments
difficulties were further aggravated by expansionary fiscal and monetary
policies. Total government expenditures reached about 40 percent of GDP in
1978/79. Recurrent outlays rose with the sharply increased wage bill
reflecting both high salary increases and expanding public employment.
Food subsidies and expenditures on health, education and social security
were also substantially increased. At the same time, capital expenditures
rose sharply. The overall budget deficit thus rose to nearly 16 percent of
GDP in 1978/79.
9.        The widening current account deficits of the balance of payments,
between 1977-79, were financed largely by a drawdown of foreign exchange
reserves and increasing recourse to external borrowing on non-concesionary
terms. As a result, the country's external debt more than tripled and
the debt service ratio rose from a modest 1 percent in 1976 to nearly
10 percent in 1979.  In late 1979, the depletion of foreign exchange
reserves and increasing fiscal and financial imbalances prompted the
adoption of more austere economic policies. The Government introduced a
stabilization program involving a 30 percent devaluation, restrictions on
public expenditures, and ceilings on salary increases.
C.   Recent Economic Developments
10.       The 1979-80 stabilization program was short-lived; in 1980,
major natural disasters wiped out the favorable effects of the austerity
measures. A severe cyclone destroyed much of the sugar crop and production
declined by 30 percent. Significant shortfall in sugar production was
transmitted directly to the rest of the economy. With the exception of
tourism, real output in all sectors fell sharply. The level of GDP in
1980 was about 9 percent lower than in 1979.  Emergency food imports and
additional public expenditures required to rehabilitate damaged
infrastructure further compromised the stabilization efforts.
11.       The economy recovered progressively in 1981 and 1982.  Sugar
production increased from 475 thousand tons in 1980 to 575 thousand tons
in 1981 and 690 thousand tons in 1982. However, non-sugar industry slowed
down markedly in 1982 as new orders for manufactured products fell, owing
to the worldwide recession and restrictive economic measures adopted by
the industrialized countries. The recovery in tourism was modest despite
a second exchange rate readjustment.
12.       On the demand side, gross fixed capital formation declined by
almost 10 percent in 1981 and about 11 percent in 1982 in constant prices.
After a slight increase in 1981, total consumption is estimated to have
declined by about 3 percent in real terms in 1982, mainly due to a
reduction in private consumption. Hence 1982 saw a rise in the domestic
savings rate from 14 percent of GDP in 1981 to 18 percent of GDP in 1982.



- 4 -
13.       The sharp contraction in economic acLivity in 1980 7as
accompanied by a rapid rise in unemployment.  Tine unemployment situation
deteriorated further and in 1982 the number of registered uneuployed
reached nearly 25 percent of the labor force.
Fiscal Performance
14.       The overall fiscal performance continued to deteriorate until
1981/82.  After a decline to about 11 percent of GDP in 19 i/80 the
budgetary deficit climbed to about 14 percent of GDP in 1980/81. This
reflected primarily the heavy interest payments on external d2bt which
accounted for nearly one-fourth of current expenditures. In 1981/82,
discretionary tax measures, the recovery of taxes from sugar exports, the
trimming of the public sector investment program and the containment of
current expenditures helped to reduce the overall deficit tc 12.8 percent
of GDP.
15.       In 1982/83, there was a further improvement in fsac21
performance.  Provisional data on the 1982/83 budgetary out.urn indicate
an overall deficit of MR 1.2 billion, equivalent to less than 10 percent of
GDP. In 1982/83 total revenue increased by 22.6 percent over 1981/82,
reflecting mainly an increase in the rate of stamp duties o- imports and
the introduction, in January 1983, of a 5 percent sales tax on goods at the
wholesale level.  As a result, the share in GDP of total revenue rose from
21 percent in the previous fiscal year to about 23 percent in 1982/83.
Current outlays were kept constant with respect to GDP despi*e a 24 percent
increase in interest payments on public debt. The budgetary cost of
subsidies on rice and wheat flour was reduced to MR 190 million from
MR 230 million in 1981/82 through increases in retail prices.
The 1983/84 Budget
16.       The 1983/84 Budget has recently been approved by Parliament after
being delayed by nearly three months because cf the general elections.  The
Budget reflects the fiscal objectives of the cu-rrent 18-mon-ch stand by
arrangement; it aims at reducing the overall deficit from 9.3 percent of
GDP to 8.8 percent of estimated GDP by June 1984.
17.       To achieve this objective the 1983/84 budget introduces a number
of discretionary revenue measures. These include the rationalization of
import duties, the reimposition of custom duties on non-basic food items
and public sector imports, the introduction of a new tax on capital gains
arising from conversion of agricultural land to residential use and a
withholding tax on declared dividends.  Further increases in revenue,
compared with 1982/83, are expected to accrue from the first full year's
impact of the sales tax, introduced in January 1983. On th-e expenditure
side, total government spending is budgeted to increase by '1.2 percent
from the estimated outturn for 1982/83. Current expenditures are expected
to remain at their 1982/83 level, with increases in some iems offset by
reductions in transfers to parastatals and subsidies on rice and wheat
flour.  Capital expenditures are budgeted to increase by 11 -percent in
conformity with the revised Public Investment Program (PSIP-.



- 5-
Balance of Payments Performance
18.       Mauritius' balance of payments deteriorated steadily until 1982.
The deterioration was particularly pronounced in 1981 as sugar exports
remained below that of a normal year and manufacturing exports to European
countries were hampered by appreciation of the Mauritian rupee, against
European currencies. Expansionary fiscal policy also contributed to the
deterioration of the balance of payments. To restrain import demand and
restore the competitiveness of manufacturing exports, the rupee was
devalued by 20 percent, with respect to the SDR, in September 1981.
19.       The balance of payments improved substantially in 1982.  The
volume of imports fell by 17 percent as a result of slower growth in GDP
and effective demand management policies.   Despite heavy interest payments
on Eurodollar borrowings, the current account deficit was reduced
substantially from about 13 percent of GDP in 1981 to about 6 percent in
1982. The current account deficit is expected to decline further to about
5 percent of GDP by the end of 1983.
External Public Debt
20.       Debt outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have reached
$393 million at the end of 1982, equivalent to 36 percent of GDP.
Financial institutions account for almost 40 percent of Mauritius' total
debt outstanding and disbursed.  As overall terms of external borrowings
hardened, particularly due to Eurodollar borrowings, debt service payments
increased from $49 million in 1981 to $58 million in 1982 and are estimated
to reach almost $90 million in 1983. As a consequence, the debt service
ratio has risen from 9.8 percent to 13 percent in 1982 and is expected to
reach 20 percent in 1983.  Including IMF payments, the debt service ratio
increased from 12.4 percent in 1981 to 14.6 percent in 1982 and is expected
to reach 22.5 percent in 1983.
D. The Need for Structural Adjustment
21.       Mauritius' economic imbalances result primarily from the
Government's expansionary policy response to rising unemployment, and the
country's heavy dependence on a single commodity. Favorable conditions in
the mid-1970s led the Government to expand public expenditures; when
resource availabilities increased during the sugar boom, the Government
embarked on a policy of income redistribution through general salary
increases, expansion of public sector employment and a large infrastructure
investment program. Failure to take prompt action to revert to more
austere economic policies when sugar prices declined resulted in excessive
budgetary deficits, strong domestic demand, rising domestic inflation and,
ultimately, in large balance of payments deficits.
22.       Current account deficits of about 12 percent of GDP which
Mauritius experienced during 1977-1981 cannot be sustained over a longer
period. Fundamental structural changes need to be made in the economy if



- 6 -
future growth is not to be seriously limited by balance of payments and
creditworthiness constraints. First, more resources need to be channelled
to export production and efficient import-substitution, including
substitutes for imported energy. Second, domestic savings, particularly in
the public sector, need to be increased to reduce the country's reliance on
external borrowings.  However, the scope for generating additional domestic
savings by constraining consumption growth is limited. Consequently, the
efficiency of resource use would be one of the critical determinants of
output growth,
23.       In the short term, to maintain the country's creditworthiness,
domestic demand will need to be restrained through exchange rate and demand
management policies. In the medium term, growth will depend largely on the
country's ability to diversify and stimulate exports in both agriculture
and manufacturing, promote tourism and to a lesser extend to reduce its
dependence on imported energy and food products.
24.       Mauritius has some scope for the development of industrial
products for the domestic market. However, given the importance of
economies of scale in many industrial processess and the limited size of
the domestic market, import substitution will not provide the main impetus
for the sustained growth of this sector.  Thus, further development and
expansion of export-oriented industrialization must remain the major
priority for Mauritius. Given the monocultural nature of agriculture and
limited resource endowment of Mauritius, such manufacturing will continue
to be largely import-intensive.  However, in the future, a vigorous effort
will have to be made to increase the share of value added generated in
manufacturing. Furthermore, to the extend possible manufacturing will have
rely more on labor intensive technology in order to absorb a significant
portion of the growing labor force.
25.       Tourism in Mauritius developed as a major activity in the 1970s.
Before then, most visitors were from the neighboring islands of Reunion and
Madagascar, attracted by cultural and family ties. In the 1970s, largely
with private initiative and with support from government, tourism developed
strongly. Visitor arrival statistics indicate an average annual rate of
growth of 18.5 percent in the 1970s. Earnings rose much faster, at about
30 percent per year reflecting both increases in tourist spending and
growth in arrivals from Europe and South Africa. By 1979, tourism had
become the third largest foreign exchange earner, after sugar and
manufactures, and a major source of employment, providing jobs, directly
and indirectly, for some 20,000 Mauritians (10 percent of the labor
force). Since 1979, however, the industry has been stagnating, with
visitor arrivals continuing to be at around 10 percent below that year's
peak of 128,000 and investment in tourism has declined sharply. There is
still ample scope for further expansion of this sector through adequate
implementation of policies designed to increase tourist arrivals as well as
tourist spending in Mauritius.



- 7 -
26.       Traditionally, Mauritius has exported sugar and imported food to
satisfy its requirements.  The bleak outlook for world sugar prices, the
limited land potential for expanding sugar production and the growing food
requirements call for a major effort to diversify agricultural production.
Substituting food crops for sugar cultivation is a possibility, but depends
on establishing the economic costs and benefits of the acreage kept under
sugar production and the potential benefits of alternative crops to be
cultivated as a substitute or in association with sugar.  This is a complex
issue which also involves the relative split of sugar export proceeds
between government, planters and millers, possible changes in labor
legislation and a reassessment of wages and other social benefits in the
sugar sector in the light of those prevailing in other parts of the
economy.
27.       Mauritius is almost exclusively dependent on imported energy.
Petroleum imports rose to account for about 20 percent of the import bill
in 1982 from about 7 percent in 1970. Therefore, it has become a matter of
urgency for Government to explore means to conserve energy and to develop
alternative sources to meet the growing needs of the economy.
28.       The high level of unemployment is a major socio-economic
problem. The Mauritian labor force is likely to increase by 100,000 in
the next decade. It is unlikely that agriculture will generate a
significant number of new employment opportunities during the rest of the
1980s. The sugar industry, traditionally the major employer, already
occupies 90 percent of arable land and cannot expand further. In the
coming years, the sugar sector will shed labor as sugar harvesting becomes
increasingly mechanized. Diversification into other crops may at best
create enough new jobs to offset the negative impact of the sugar
sub-sector. Employment in the public sector should not expand further,
given the already difficult fiscal situation. Even though tourism is
likely to expand significantly, it will not absorb all the increase in the
labor force. With the progressive introduction of restrictive immigration
measures in many labor importing countries, the main outlet for the growth
of Mauritius' labor force is therefore to be in manufacturing.
29.       The unemployed labor force, at present, is comprised of a large
group of unskilled persons fit only for labor-intensive activities and a
small number of unemployed youths with relatively high academic
qualifications. Moreover, there are major discrepancies in the level of
remuneration in the various segments of the economy. Paradoxically,
workers involved in productive activity sometimes earn a substantially
lower income than those whose contribution to the productive process is
marginal. In addition, legislation to protect workers' employment rights
has been detrimental to labor mobility and has resulted in redundancy in
some parts of the labor market while shortfalls exists in others. Reform
of the labour legislation is one of the key complementary actions to
economic policy measures required to improve the employment prospects in
Mauritius.



- 8 -
30,       In the longer term, population growth, currently at 1.5 percent,
continues to add to the difficulties of structural adjustment. Mauritius
has made significant progress in developing its population policy but there
is some indication that family planning has reached a plateau. The
Government is continuing to seek means of strengthening its population
program.
31.       The Government's structural adjustment program for the 1980's
focusses on those policy areas which have the greatest need of fundamental
reform and the greatest potential for improving the balance of payments.
As the preparation and implementation of far-reaching policy reforms
require considerable time, the program is phased and concentrated on a
limited number of sectors at a time. Moreover, phasing of the reforms is
essential to provide the economy with sufficient time to adapt to the new
policy framework.
PART II - THE FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
32.       The First Structural Adjustment Loan for an amount of
US$15.0 million was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1981.
The loan, which was not tranched, was fully disbursed by January 1982.
This operation supported a first program of adjustment described in
Government's Statement of Development Policy" and complemented a
stabilization program agreed with the IMF. The objective was to provide
balance of payments support in the short term in order to prevent
interruption of growth while initiating basic economic reforms for
structural adjustment in the medium term.
A. The Program
33.       The basic components of the Government's first program of
adjustment were the following:
(a) a scaling down and restructuring of the public sector
investment program (PSIP), placing greater emphasis on
infrastructure directly linked to production together
with development of criteria for selection of projects
and review of the PSIP;
(b) implementation of a series of measures in industry,
aimed at stimulating production, exports and investment
in this sector;
(c) development of policies and technical solutions to
stimulate agricultural production other than sugar;



- 9 -
(d) preparation of a national energy plan, including an
assessment of the potential use of bagasse for power
generation;
(e)  an assessment of the problems facing the tourism
industry;
(f) measures in the education sector to improve efficiency
and contain government expenditures;
(g) a series of measures in different public sector
agencies aimed at greater efficiency in the public
sector and at reducing demands on the budget; and
(h) strengthening of the institutional capacity for debt
management.
34.       The program did not specify quantitative targets per se.
However, the objective on the balance of payments was to reduce the current
account deficit from about 12 percent of GDP in 1979/80 to about 8 percent
in 1984/85. Also the debt service ratio was to be kept below 15 percent.
B. Progress Achieved
35.       The government's overall performance in implementing the first
phase of the Adjustment program has been mixed. In large part, this
was due to delays occasioned by the 1982 national elections which made
many ministers unable to take decisions in an uncertain political climate,
or even to undertake studies which were already agreed upon. The
stabilization program, however, was on the whole successfully implemented.
The two devaluations of 1979 and 1981 coupled with the wage restraint
policy did much to restore competitiveness of the economy.
36.       The Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) was substantially
reduced. In current Rupees the program for 1983/84 - 1985/86 is 30 percent
below the program submitted in 1982/83. This revision corresponds to a
greater realism on the part of the Government of Mauritius with regard to
its absorptive capacity and the need to reduce government expenditure to
curb the overall budget deficit.
37.       In the industrial sector, a consulting firm was contracted to
promote foreign investment in Mauritius, and a promotion mission visited
Singapore, Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong. An Export Service Zone Act
extended the EPZ incentive package to firms engaged in export services or
re-export of merchandise. Agreements on double taxation were reached with
the U.K., France and India. An export credit guarantee scheme, managed by
DBM, was introduced followed by an export credit insurance scheme, and an
export promotion unit was established in the Ministry of Commerce and



- 10 -
Industry. The structure of interest rates was revised and interest
ceilings were removed for all loans except loans to industry and sugar
which remained in force until early 1983.
38.       As an incentive to agricultural diversification, the Government
introduced a scheme by which investors in new projects for agricultural
production are entitled to Development Certificates giving tax advantages
comparable to those available for industry and tourism.   A Committee was
appointed in February 1981 to monitor implementation of the recommendations
of a Plan of Action for agricultural diversification. Subsequently,
specialized subcommittees were established to study specific policies,
measures and issues related primarily to rice; livestock and milk; maize;
agricultural marketing; credit; food processing and other facilities;
agricultural research; and fisheries. The subcommittees made a serious
effort to analyze the technical and institutional problems, but were unable
to focus adequately on major policy issues. Therefore the document
prepared on agricultural diversification did not contribute much to
defining appropriate policies to stimulate food crops and facilitate
agricultural diversification. Although in late 1982 the consumer prices
for rice and wheat were increased siRnificantly with a view to eventually
abolish subsidies and promote consumption of locally produced substitutes,
there has been only limited progress on agricultural diversification. In
fact, expectations on this matter may have been somewhat unrealistic. As
noted above, the definition of measures for diversification of agriculture
depends critically on prior analysis and conclusions of the Sugar Enquiry
Commission.
39.       The sugar Inquiry Commission was not established until after the
1982 elections. In September 1982, an experienced consultant well known to
the Bank, was appointed as the Chairman of the Commission which includes
two senior Mauritian economists. Since then, extensive analytical work has
been conducted and public hearings, with the participation of both public
and private sector representatives, have been held. The final report will
be issued in December 1983.
40.       The Government did succeed in formulating an integrated energy
policy in September 1981. An Energy Planning Unit was created within the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development, and then transferred to the
Ministry of Energy. The main issue was how to develop power generation
from bagasse. A pre-feasibility study confirmed that there was significant
potential to reduce oil imports by equipping sugar factories with more
efficient generating plants that can use bagasse. One sugar estate has
embarked upon an investment to improve and expand its generating capacity.
Two others are planning similar investments and tenders have been called
for a pilot project for the pelletization of bagasse, a process which is
expected to increase the efficiency of utilization of bagasse for power
generation.   On the demand side, both petroleum and electricity have been
priced at appropriate levels to reflect the import cost of energy and a
daylight saving scheme was introduced.



- 11 -
41.       The study on air access and the study assessing the potential of
tourism were carried out in time. However, the study on air access did not
meet expectations and Government had to take the lead in developinz policy
proposals for this sector in consultation with tourist operators. These
studies confirmed the need for further action in the development of this
sector, vital for the economy because of its contribution to foreign
exchange earnings and employment.
42.       Only after the 1982 elections did the authorities complete a
strategy paper on education indicating that government expenditures on
education should be limited to 14 percent of the recurrent budget and that
the pupil/teacher ratio should be increased to 30:1.  The closing of
21 sub-standard private schools was decided at the end of 1982. A
Commission of Enquiry to resolve other outstanding sector issues was
appointed in late 1982 and its findings are expected shortly.
43.        The Government's Statement of Development Policy identified
three major parastatals in which a process of restructuring goals,
improving efficiency and redeploying personnel was underway: the Tea
Development Authority (TDA), the Development Works Corporation (DWC) and
the Central Housing Authority (CHA). However, the reform of these
parastatals was only partially carried out. A proposal to restructure
TDA was discussed with the Bank only in November 1982 and a plan to reduce
DWC personnel by 2,000 was completed only in February 1983.
44.        In the past there were weaknesses in monitoring the external
debt portfolio for the purpose of holding the external debt burden within
manageable limits. The Government, conscious of the recent rapid growth of
its debt service burden, made a special effort to improve its debt
management capacity with the use of computer facilities and technical
assistance from the Bank.
45.        The evaluation of the impact of SAL I on the macroeconomic
performance of Mauritius can only be tentative; since the observed results
cover only the first half of the program period, the national accounts
series have been revised, and the actual economic outcome was influenced by
a number of events outside the program itself.  In 1980, owing mainly to
the poor sugar year, real GDP declined by a hefty 10 percent. In the
following two years, however, GDP recovered to its 1979 level. Still the
available information in terms of the major aggregate variables amenable to
Government policy measures is quite favorable. Thus, in the last two
fiscal years, the current account deficit of the balance of payments and
fiscal deficits are lower as a share of GDP than the SAL I objectives. On
the other hand, the debt service ratio at 20 percent is higher than the SAL
target of 15 percent, owing in part to commercial borrowing in early 1982
on harder terms than anticipated and especially to the depressed sugar
prices in 1982.



- 12 -
Table 1
SAL I: Macroeconomic Targets And Performance
Percent of GDP
1980/81       1981/82       1982/83
SAL I Targets
Balance of Payments Current
Account Deficit                         14.0           8.9           8.0
Government Overall Deficit                16.0          13.0           11.0
Debt Service Ratio                         9.1          13.0           15.2
Performance
Balance of Payments Current
Account Deficit                         15.4           6.0           5.4
Government Overall Deficit                13.2          12.8            9.9
Debt Service Ratio                         9.1          13.2           19.7
46.         Overall, the first Structural Adjustment Operation was timely
and its results positive despite the shortcomings in implementation as
noted above. On the one hand it contributed to the mobilization of a
financing package at a time when Mauritius' foreign exchange reserves were
completely exhausted. On the other hand, it helped to develop a dialogue
both internally and with the international community - pertaining to a
large number of sector issues whose adequate solution are critical for the
achievement of sustained growth of output and employment. Also, the
discussions on the different components of SAL I helped the emergence of a
general consensus among different segments of political opinion in
Mauritius on the urgency and content of the future policy reforms required
by the economy. This in turn set the stage for further action on the part
of the authorities as contemplated in the proposed Second Structural
Adjustment Loan.
PART III - THE SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
47.         At the second meeting of the Mauritius Consultative Group, which
was held June 1 and 2, 1983 under the auspices of the World Bank, the
Government presented its diagnosis of the situation and prospects of the
Mauritian economy and its program of policy reforms to restore economic
growth. To meet the challenge presented by high unemployment, heavy debt



- 13 -
service obligations, and minimal foreign exchanze reserves, the Government
has strengthened its structural adjustment program to further promote
export-led industrialization, renewed growth of tourism, the restructuring
of the sugar industry and agricultural diversification. The meeting
endorsed the view that the proposed policy reforms were appropriate and
that the Government's investment program appeared generally sound and
compatible with the structural adjustment program. Participating
delegations indicated that they would be prepared to support the
Government's efforts through special balance of payments assistance.
48.        The second phase of the Mauritius structural adjustment program
was endorsed by the new Government elected in August 1983. The program is
described in a Statement of Development Policy dated September 29, 1983
(Annex III).  The following are the highlights.
A.  The Program For Export-Led Industrialization
49.        The program in industry is comprehensive.  The four prongs of
this program are the following: (i) maintaining Mauritius' export
competitiveness vis-a-vis other countries competing in the same markets;
(ii) reforming the system of export incentives to extend it to all firms
involved, directly or indirectly, in export activity; (iii) attracting
foreign investment and technology which is considered as the most effective
means of expanding exports of manufactured products; and (iv) encouraging
private investment by strengthening the equity base of Mauritian
enterprises and providing them with adequate capital.
(i) Maintaining Export Competiveness
50.        Mauritius has two significant advantages with respect to
manufacturing for export markets. First, it has an abundant supply of
unskilled and semi-skilled workers who are willing to offer their services
in return for relatively modest wages and who can be easily trained.
Second, it enjoys duty-free access to the European Common Market. The
relative importance of the second advantage is declining as other
developing countries take advantage of their own preferential access to
that market.
51.        Comparative data suggest that Mauritius is reasonably
competitive with many other developing countries in terms of wage rates and
unit wage costs. Today, the dollar-equivalent wage rates paid by export
companies in Mauritius are lower than those of many countries of comparable
per capita income albeit higher than those of Bangladesh, China, India,
Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Relative unit wage costs can be maintained unless
inflation gets out of hand or exchange rate management becomes inadequate.
In this context, keeping the exchange rate at an appropriate level is the
single most important policy measure that Government can follow to preserve



- 14 -
and enhance the development of manufactured exports from Mauritius. The
Rupee is not believed to be overvalued at the current rate of exchange, but
active management of the rate will be needed to prevent future
misalignment. Government intends to keep the exchange rate under constant
review.
(ii) Reform of the Export Incentive System
52.         Unifying Export Incentives:  The Government intends to merge
and modify the "development certificate" and "export certificate" schemes.
A Development Certificate Scheme was introduced in 1964 to encourage the
formation of import substituting industries. In 1970, an export incentive
scheme was created for export industries. At the end of 1982 there were
120 manufacturing enterprises holding a Development Certificate and
110 holding an Export Certificate
53.       Development Certificate firms are exempted from company tax
for a period of five years if they take the initial depreciation allowance,
or eight years if they do not. Dividends paid to shareholders are tax-free
(individual income tax) for a period of five years from start of
production. Imports of capital goods are free of duty.
54.       Export Certificate firms now enjoy full relief from company tax
for ten years, 50 percent relief in years 11-15, and 25 percent relief in
years 16-20. During the first ten years they can pay tax-free dividends to
their owners for five years (beginning with the first year that dividends
are paid). The firms are exempted with respect to import duties on capital
goods and machinery, as well as current material imports. They are also
exempted from paying the stamp duty, which is currently 12 percent of
import value.
55.       Recently, an Export Service Certificate was created to encourage
entrepot and service activities in Mauritius. Holders enjoy a flat ten
percent tax rate for at least ten and not more than twenty years. They are
also permitted to pay tax-free dividends to owners for five years,
beginning with the first year that dividends are paid.
56.       Tax relief is also available to firms outside the certificate
schemes if they export items other than sugar, sugar by-products, tea,
and tobacco. This relief was allowed for five consecutive years as from
July 1, 1981, and may be renewed for another five years.  If the firm is
new, it can deduct an amount equal to five percent of the export value
achieved during its first year of operation from otherwise chargeable
income. If not new, the firm can deduct an amount equal to five percent of
the increase in the f.o.b. export value in the income year, relative to a
base period. The base period is normally the preceding three years. Base
period values are adjusted upward by an arbitrary factor of ten percent per
year to allow for inflation.



- 15 -
57.         Non-certificate companies have to pay import and stamp duties
when their imports enter Mauritius, but can request drawback with respect
to duties paid for imports embodied in subsequent exports. Development
certificate holders enjoy the same right of drawback.
58.         To encourage all firms to export the Government has decided to
merge the Export Certificate and Development Certificate schemes by
granting, on a pro rata basis of their exports, the same incentives.
Furthermore, to reduce some of the costs to EPZ firms, specific measures
will be taken so they could sell part of their products on the local
market.
59.         Abolishing Quantitative Import Restrictions:  Mauritius provides
tariff and non-tariff protection to local industries. Ad valorem import
duties and other taxes on imports together range from zero to 200 percent
on the value of imports. In October 1981 the "stamp duty" of five percent
was extended to cover nearly three-fifths of all imports, by value, and the
rate was later raised to twelve percent.
60.         The import licensing (non-tariff protection) is done on a
case-by-case basis by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The procedure
is discretionary, and is administered in such a way as to limit imports to
about one-fifth of domestic demand if local producers are capable of
supplying the other four-fifths. This is a de facto system of import
quotas, the full extent of which is not known. These import quotas
discourage efficiency in local industries. Even if the domestic company
agrees to a local sales price that is equal to or less than the prevailing
c.i.f. import price plus tariff at the time of negotiating an import
license, Mauritian consumers have no assurance that declining world prices
(resulting from improved technologies or increased competition among
suppliers) will be matched by declining local prices. More importantly,
quantitative import restrictions encourage production for the domestic
market and discourage production for exports.
61.         Government has agreed to eliminate the current discretionary
system of industrial protection, via import licensing, by gradually
shifting to a generalized, time-phased program of declining tariffs. In
the meantime Government has already undertaken to stop granting new
quantitative import restrictions.
62.         The precise nature of the program of action to follow will be
identified by a major Industrial Policy Review (IPR) already launched, and
to be completed by July 1984 (Annex IV).
(iii) Attracting Foreign Investment for Exports
63.         The Government has recently passed legislation (September 13,
1983) establishing a new entity, the Mauritius Export Development and
Investment Authority (MEDIA), to promote foreign investment and export
sales. MEDIA, an autonomous institution, will enable prospective investors
to deal with only one agency for obtaining all the necessary information
and clearances to start and operate an industry in Mauritius.



- 16 -
64.         The principal functions of MEDIA are:  (i) to promote, assist
and develop exports from Mauritius; (ii) to engage in investment
promotional activities designed to promote Mauritius as an attractive base
for the establishment of export-led industries; (iii) to plan, implement
and review programs of action for the development of exports and investment
in industries manufacturing for export; (iv) to develop and manage
industrial sites and buildings within the framework of the National
Physical Development Plan; and (v) to advise government on all matters
relating to the development of exports and investment promotion.
65.         MEDIA will re-organize the current export and investment
promotion functions of the Ministry of Industry and Cooperatives. It
will act as a contact point for potential foreign investors and foreign
importers, provide -them with all necessary information and put them in
contact with local businessmen as well as advise them. MEDIA will also
assist in matters such as designs, product development, packaging,
advertising and after-sales services.
66.        The Government considers MEDIA crucial for export promotion and
export-led industrialization, and has requested financial assistance to
ensure that the unit gets launched properly and without delay. The Bank
is accordingly proposing to include US$0.5 million in the Technical
Assistance Loan, being processed simultaneously with the SAL-II Loan, to
cover 66 percent of MEDIA's operating expenses for the years FY 84-86.
Thereafter, government and the private sector will meet all expenses.
(iv)  Encouraging Private Investment
67.         Providing Fiscal Incentives:  In Mauritius resident companies
are taxed after distribution of dividends. This method of company
taxation: (a) encourages distribution of earnings, (b) discourages
investment, and (c) produces unacceptable debt/equity ratios. The
existing tax system also differentiates in favor of "public" companies. At
present, the effective tax rate on the retained profits of resident public
companies is 55 percent.  The same rate is 66 percent on privately-held
companies that do not permit their shares to be traded.  The top marginal
rate of personal income tax, on the other hand, is 70 percent. To a
potential investor these rates appear prima facie to be very high.
68.         Based on IMF recommendations, Government has decided to lower
the existing tax rates on companies and introduce a tax payable at the
source before distribution of profits. This is a first step and the rates
will progressively be unified over a period of time. Reducing nominal tax
rates from the existing, levels should improve investor perceptions. In
addition, the companies balance sheets should be improved and the firms'
ability to borrow should be increased.
69.         Given the difficulty of anticipating the full reaction of
companies and shareholders to the new tax system, a few years of experience
will be needed in order to see whether the change has indeed provided
sufficient incentive for companies to retain a higher proportion of their
earnings.



- 17 -
70.         Strengthening the Capital Base of Export Industries: As
indicated earlier, many manufacturing companies in Mauritius exhibit
fragile balance sheets and there is a need to improve the capital base of
Mauritian enterprises. While the business income tax reform is designed to
reduce the incentive to pay out an excessive share of profits to
shareholders, additional steps will be needed to lower financial gearing
ratios and make companies more attractive for commercial bank loans.
Government has, Legislation dated September 9, 1983, created a Mauritius
Equity Financing Fund (MEFF) to bolster the equity position of export
industries that show promise of success.
71.        The initial capital of MEFF will be Rs 100 million.  A Board of
Trustees consisting of public and private sector representatives is being
identified at this time and steps are being taken to select a full-time
professional Manager to supervise the MEFF. The Development Bank of
Mauritius (DBM) will provide space and staff support to the MEFF in return
for an annual fee.
72.        MEFF will give priority to manufacturing for exports,and will
be prepared to match, rupee for rupee, bona fide cash equity contributions
made by owners of existing and new companies. During the first year of its
existence, however, the MEFF will favor existing companies with proven
track records. As operating experience is acquired, MEFF will increase its
assistance to new companies. Cumulative participating preference shares
and other financial instruments will be used by the MEFF as vehicles for
assisting companies. The assistance will be structured in such a way that
the beneficiaries will be stimulated to buy MEFF ownership out as quickly
as profits permit.
73.        It is anticipated that DBM and the commercial banks of
Mauritius will collaborate with the MEFF by providing loans to the
assisted companies. Provisional assurance of such collaboration will be
obtained as required before MEFF assistance is approved. While the MEFF
will be prepared to take sizable business risks, it is not intended to be a
charitable institution. The decision to assist or not to assist companies
will be based on thorough appraisal of financial and economic prospects,
with collateral security as a secondary consideration. Early approvals
will relate mostly to established enterprises with identified markets,
where capital is needed for expansion. MEFF will require a positive
return from its investments in successful enterprises in order to avoid
decapitalization. Preference shares and similar instruments will require
service ahead of common shares.
74.       Reducing The Cost of Foreign Exchange Transactions:  Although the
commercial banking system in Mauritius is reasonably efficient, weaknesses
exist in the area of foreign exchange transactions. The buy-sell spread
has been very large on currencies other than the Pound Sterling and the
U.S. Dollar, running about four percent on French Francs and Deutschemark
and three percent on the Japanese Yen. Conversions between the Mauritius
Rupee and the latter three currencies (and others) have traditionally been
made through the Pound Sterling. In May 1983 the Bank of Mauritius



- 18 -
reviewed the situation and reduced the margin authorized to commercial
banks for transactions in foreign exchange.   Recently the Government has
requested the assistance of the IMF to review the costs and other terms of:
foreign exchange transactions.
B. Tne Program for Tourism Development
75.        Tourism plays an important role in Mauritius.  It contributes
about 10 percent of foreign exchange earnings and provides employment for
about 20,000 people (10 percent of the labor force). Through most of the
1970s the Government's role in tourism was supportive of the sector's
expansion, and was largely expressed through the incentives granted to
investors through Development Certificates and financing guarantees. The
Government began its own tourism promotion activity with the first campaign
of the Mauritius Government Tourism Office (MGTO) launched in Britain in
1977-78.
76.       In recent years there has been a decline in receipts from tourism
as a result of continued world recession combined with the erosion of
Mauritius' competitive position vis-a-vis other tourist destinations.
During 1974-79, principally because of the distance to major markets, tour
prices to Mauritius were around 15-20 percent higher than for comparable
holidays in the Caribbean or Sri Lanka. Tour price increases for European
visitors in 1980 widened this differential to around 35-40 percent.
Although price movements have diverged less sharply since then, the
differential between prices in Mauritius and in approximately comparable
beach hotels in Kenya and Sri Lanka has remained in this range.  For South
African visitors also, Mauritius has become a less attractive destination
with prices in the 1982/83 season being only marginally lower than
comparable holiday packages to more distant destinations such as Portugal
and Spain. Each component of the tour price (airfares, hotel, and other
ground costs) has contributed to the relative loss of competitive position,
but increases in air fare, cumulatively more than 40 percent in real terms
since 1979, have had the largest impact.
77.       Limited direct air access to Mauritius has been the most
important single factor behind the rising cost of air fares.  This can be
seen from comparing the Mauritian experience with that of other countries;
while tourist arrivals in Mauritius are now running at around 10 percent
below the 1979 level, increases in the same period in countries with
relatively free air access range from 23 percent for Thailand to 37 percent
for Cyprus.  In Sri Lanka, where there are no restrictions on air carriers,
tourist arrivals increased by 63 percent. The limited air-access also
threatens the viability of new investments in tourism.
78.       The Government has prepared a comprehensive program for tourism
based on a strategy to maximize foreign exchange earnings. The program
aims at increasing the number of tourists by: (a) improving the
accessibility of Mauritius; (b) better promotion in existing and new
markets; and (c) expanding room capacity. The program also includes
measures to stimulate tourism spending.



- 19 -
79.       The program relies on the adoption of air access policies to
maximize the flow of tourist arrivals, requiring an immediate expansion of
the air route network serving Mauritius. To this end discussions have
already begun to negotiate traffic rights for potentially important tourist
markets in the Gulf States and Australia. Within the framework of existing
agreements, Air Mauritius (the national carrier) has begun analyzing the
potential viability of new services and traffic points and the require-
ments, including additional aircraft capacity, needed to provide such
services. Air Mauritius is also exploring the potential for regional
pooling of traffic rights and services with Seychelles.
80.       Following this strategy, the initiative in introducing new
services falls on Air Mauritius rather than on foreign airlines or charter
carriers. The airline has concluded an agreement for special flights for
Italian tourists, and between December 1983 and April 1984 will start
operating weekly exclusive tourist services from Rome. The possibilities
for other charter services to tourist points not served by the scheduled
airlines are being investigated, and these possibilities, together with the
opportunities for new and expanded scheduled airline services, make it
reasonable to target inauguration of two new services (by Air Mauritius or
others) for the 1983-84 season. Assuming Boeing 707 aircraft capacities
for the new services, airline capacity for tourists during the peak season
of 1983-84 would thus increase by about 25 percent.
81.       Air service expansion envisaged under the program needs to be
supported by improved promotion activity by both public and private sector
tourism interests. The Government will intensify its promotion program in
the main tourist generating countries to sustain the growth in existing
markets and to tap new sources. The Government has agreed to a substantial
increase in the budget of the MGTO and has indicated that the MGTO budget
should exceed Rs 14 million, the level required to restore the 1979 dollar
equivalent value of promotion activities. It has also agreed to give MGTO
greater financial autonomy within the overall public sector financial
control framework. MGTO has planned an extended tourism promotion campaign
for 1984, and has submitted an annual work program in support of its budget
request. Also the Government will commission a study of new market
potential and of the market strategies needed to exploit this potential.
Separate studies on the Australian and U.S. markets are being considered
with bilateral financing.
82.       Taking into account the interest expressed by investors in
projects to expand hotel bed capacity, the Government will take measures
to insure the granting of investment incentives and permits for
construction starts on 600 new rooms by January 1984. It is expected that
a total availability of rooms by the end of 1984 will be 2,650 compared to
2,200 now and reach 2,900 rooms by the end of 1985. Some of this
additional capacity may come from a program to classify, licence, and
assist in the marketing of private rental bungalows of appropriate
standards which have recently been built.



- 2C
83.       The Gc-ernment has alsc examined taxes affecting to-2>rsm and will
reduce selected taxes and surcharges contingent up)on assurances of
compensating reductions in retail tariffs,  The objective is to improve
price competitiveness, encourage longer stays and increase tou^rist spending
in MauritiusQ
84.       The Covernment s program for tourism was developed ^  a
Ministerial Committee, chaired by the Minister for External 'ffairs,
Tourism, and Immigration.  A reporting-, and monitoring systemr for the
tourism sector has been organized.  This Committee will alsc --ciitor
progress in separate but related  plans affectir.g tourism devalopment
including the renovation of Plaisance Airport, improvements o-_ road
connections serving the airport, and plans to extend the development
impact of tourism through construction of airstrips and improved
accommodation on other islands including Rodrigues and Agale-c;a
85.       A more widely-based consultative process has also he2n
initiated for the approval of air fares and freight rates.  n-a-ise will
now be considered by an inter-Ministerial committee chaired h  the Finance
Ministry and including Ministries responsible for tourism, p-aoning, and
communications, consultingr with Air Mauritius, the Board of Air'ines, and
user groups as appropriate.
C. The Program for Agricultural Diversificatior
86.       Agriculture, dominated by sugar, cont:inues to be th-e most
important economic activity in Mauritius.  The Government irn.ends to focus
its efforts on restructuringr the sugar industry and diversifyi-^i.
agricultural production.  The two objectives are linked sinc-  sugar
dominates agricultural production and cultivable acreage. Any measure to
extend agricultural diversification would be complementary to or a
substitute for sugar production.  Establishing the economic costs and
benefits of the acreages kept under sugar cultivation is, therefore, a
precondition to diversification into other crops.
87.       The Government has set up a Commission of Inquiry on the Sugar
Industry.  This constitutes a decisive step toward defining fu-ture
agricultural policy in Mauritius.   Its terms of reference are extensive
and address all issues relevant to the sugar industry including managerial
and social questions.  The present timetable for the Commission calls for a
final report by December 1983.  Thereafter discussions would take place
between the Bank and the Government on a specific action program.
88.       It would be difficult to identify specific snort-cerm remedies
for the sugar industry in the absence of the comprehensive policy framework
expected to be formulated by the Commission.  Nevertheless, -v.ithout waiting
for the results of the Coimission, the government in July 1982 decided to
reduce slightly the export tax on sugar to ease the tiaht firnancial
situation of the sugar industry.  It migrht eventually be mor_ appropriate



- 21 -
to replace the export tax on sugar by, for example, a tax on land.  The
Sugar Commission of Inquiry is expected to make recommendations on this
matter.
89.       Agricultural diversification aims at encouraging more efficient
utilization of scarce land and at increasing food crop production.  A
package of measures including pricing, marketing, and research is designed
to shift consumer demand from imported food toward locally produced food,
while simultaneously stimulating the supply of locally produced goods. The
government's objective is to encourage domestic production through the
extension of guaranteed prices to paddy, ginger, and groundnuts. Subsidies
on imported rice and flour are gradually being reduced to stimulate
substitution of locally produced food commodities.
90.       The Government intends to set up an Agricultural Diversification
Corporation (ADC) which will co-ordinate the use of underutilized Crown
lands as well as uneconomic tea lands. An inventory of all Crown lands is
being carried out and a study group has been set up to make an in-depth
review of the tea sector. The Government also intends to establish a Land
Bank Authority that will be responsible for zoning lands and will have
pre-emptive rights on land transactions. The Land Bank will be empowered
to licence all sales of land and will be able to purchase land for eventual
sale. This would inter alia prevent agricultural land from beinz directed
to housing purposes. The Government further intends to take measures to
prevent fragmentation of sugar lands which has in the past resulted in the
emergence of uneconomic units.
91.       Another possible area of action for food import substitution and
for export development is the fishing industry. Despite its potential in
fishing, Mauritius does not have at present a well-developed, local fishing
industry. The Government would like to promote a fishing industry and to
formulate a strategy for its development. A study will be carried out
under the Technical Assistance Project to: (a) review existing fisheries
studies and resource surveys concentrating on the nature of the resource
and the history of its exploitation; and (b) review the comparative
advantage, markets and commercial viability of different fisheries
development activities.
92.       The Government has also undertaken to reduce Mauritian dependence
on meat and milk imports.  The target is to produce, by 1990, 40 percent
of the country's meat requirement through livestock development. A major
program of technical and financial assistance has been negotiated with the
French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation and the Caisse Centrale de
Coop6ration Economique to support the development of the meat and milk
sector.
D. Promotion Of Employment
93.       The Government is deeply concerned by the high level of
unemployment currently prevailing in Mauritius (about 25 percent). It aims



- 22 -
at alleviating this situation mainly by growth-related measures in the
productive sectors as described before, but also through changes in wage
legislation and improvements in training and the education system.
94.       The existing labor legislation and the mechanism for wage
negotiations are cumbersome, create wage inequities, and prevent labor
mobility among various sectors.  Legal arrangements and practices governing
public involvement in private employer-employee relations are also
complicated. They constitute ad-hoc, frequently detailed minimum wage
orders for particular groups of workers, various arbitration and dispute
settlement procedures and other regulations affecting collective bargaining
and organizational relationships. Furthermore, in the public sector the
existence of an independent Civil Service Arbitration Tribunal obstructs
the development of an orderly internal wage structure for civil servants
and lays the foundation for a continuing series of demands for correction
of alleged inequities created by individual and uncoordinated arbitration
awards. This distorts the governmental responsibility for the setting and
administration of an equitable and efficient-salary structure that is
consonant with economic and budgetary limitations.
95.       The Government's objective is to continue with a policy of wage
restraint, in order both to maintain the competitiveness of Mauritian
export industry and to reduce the government budget deficit. It has also
decided to take action on some non-monetary components of compensation, for
example by reducing the excessive number of paid national holidays.  The
principal area of concern, of course, is to ensure not only that the real
wage is competitive but that labor productivity is attractive to new
investors at that wage.  Government is aware of the complexity of these
issues and recognizes the importance of maintaining and improving
productivity. It is also concerned with the existing and future obstacles
to absorb and redeploy labor.
96.       The Government intends to review the existing mechanism for
wage negotiations and the system of setting minimum wages for individual
categories of workers. A parliamentary committee has recently made
recommendations for a major revision of the Industrial Relations Act and
the authorities have decided to undertake a study of the effectiveness of
the civil service.  The mandate of the Sugar Commission includes an
analysis of labor cost and a review of the labor legislation governing the
sugar sector. Government has requested the Bank to finance, as part of the
Technical Assistance loan, a study of the mechanism for minimum wage
negotiations.
97.       The elimination of legal and other impediments to the efficient
use of labor needs to be complemented by vigorous positive measures to
encourage the upgrading of workers through appropriate education and
training to facilitate their movement into more productive occupations.
In the short run the government has indicated that it will stabilize



- 23 -
government employment at the present level and will redeploy 2,000 DWC
workers. Among the actions likely to be required are expansion of
industrial and apprenticeship training and improved employment exchange
services and programs to deal with the special and often acute problems
confronting youthful entrants to the labor force.
98.       The government is exploring means to stimulate and encourage
workers to take greater advantage of opportunities for temporary employment
in Middle Eastern and other countries.  A contract has been signed with the
Government of Zimbabwe for 260 private school teachers. Government is also
encouraging teachers to sign contracts with the Seychelles and several Gulf
companies have been authorized to recruit in Mauritius.
E. Public Resource Management
99.       Fiscal Policy: Expansionary fiscal policy has been one of the
major factors behind Mauritian financial imbalances since 1979. The
Government recognizes that growth of current expenditures needs to be
contained. Before proceeding with expenditure reductions, there is a need
for a general review of public programs, so as to curb those which are
least cost-effective. Such a comprehensive review is being conducted with
IMF assistance.
100.      The IMF is also providing assistance for a reform of the tax
system in order to diversify the tax base and increase revenues.
A 5 percent sales tax has already gone into effect early in 1983 and is
expected to bring in additional revenue of Rs 190 million, equivalent to
about 10 percent of existing government revenue. Also, the Government is
developing a program designed to improve: (a) tax administration; (b)
income tax collection; and (c) proceeds from taxes on real estate. In
addition, to cut down on tax evasion, the Government has set up a Unified
Income Board as well as an Income Tax Tribunal.
101.      To improve the monitoring of overall public expenditures, the
Ministry of Finance will consolidate the accounts of the Pension Fund, of
Local Governments and of the non-financial public enterprises with those of
the Central Government. At present the accounting system of Local
Governments cannot be reconciled with the Central government accounts. To
strengthen monitoring and policy formulation a generally-accepted
accounting framework (OCAM) will be adopted as the basis for bookkeeping
operations in the public sector.
102.      Public Sector Investment Program:  The envisaged level of public
capital expenditure over the next three years should not impose an undue
strain on the financing capacity of the economy. The present three-year
Public Sector Investment Program beginning July 1983 has been reduced by
Rs 600 million (30 percent) compared with the previous program. The
revised



- 24 -
PSIP reflects the Government structural adjustment strategy by giving
priority to the productive sectors. The share of investments in the
productive sectors (agriculture, tourism and industry) represents
24 percent of the total three-year program. The share of investment in
utilities has been reduced from 19 percent in the previous program to
12 percent. The share in public infrastructure (road, airport and port)
has been increased from 7 percent to 16 percent. However, some expensive
new infrastructure projects have been dropped and a number of
implementation schedules delayed to align the program with financial
stabilization targets and provide room for allocation of funds for tourism
and the newly established MEFF. Investment for the airport has been
reduced as a result of the decision to renovate the Plaisance airport
rather than to proceed with new air terminal facilities.
103.       In current prices the revised PSIP will increase from Rs 1141
million in 1982/83 to Rs 1608 million in 1985/86, i.e. by 40 percent. In
real terms, the increase will be around 10 percent during this period.
On an annual basis, the real increase is concentrated in 1985-86 when the
financial capacity of the Government is expected to recover. The
Government expects that restraining public borrowing for capital
expenditure in the next couple of years will permit some further and
desirable scope for the financing of private activities.
Table 2. Public Sector Investment Program, 1983/84 - 1985/86
(Rs million current prices)
TOTAL
83/84-85/86
Sector                              1983/84   1984/85   1985/86           %
Agriculture & Rural
Development                         196        290        267        17.6
Industry & Tourism                     71        105        105         6.6
Water, Sewerage & Urban
Infrastructure                      175        177        339        16.2
Energy                                233        117          39         9.1
Telecommunications                      34        56          50         3.3
Roads and Road Transport               57        137        162          8.3
Housing                                92         98         104         6.9
Education                              40          55        65          3.7
Health                                 56         63         69          4.4
Airport and Ports                      72         80         160         7.3
Dev. Works & Others                   219        238        248         16.6
Total                         1245       1416       1608        100
Annual increase in 1982 prices          -           3%         7%
PSIP in the Bank's last economic
report (current prices)            1846        2042       2204



- 25 -
104.      The Ministry of Planning has recently issued guidelines for
the preparation of new public investment projects. These project
guidelines conform with generally accepted principles of economic
apppraisal. All project costs and benefits are expressed in border
prices and approaches will be adopted which appropriately reflect the
scarcity of land and the availability of labor in Mauritius. Under
SAL I the Government had agreed to consult the Bank before including any
project in excess of Rs 100 million in the Public Sector Investment
Program. This limit will be retained under SAL II.
105.      The Program for Restructuring Parastatal Enterprises:  The
Government has undertaken a program to reinforce the efficiency of
parastatals, and it has requested Bank assistance in restructuring DWC,
CHA, and TDA. The Development Works Corporation (DWC) which employs about
6,000 workers will be transformed into a public contractor and will be
given financial autonomy by December 1984.  Some 2,000 workers engaged
in forestry and agricultural activities are being redeployed to the
Ministry of Agriculture.  As for the Central Housing Authority (CHA),
the Government's objective is to reduce its dependence on Government
assistance and to make it a viable housing institution. As a first step,
the Government will undertake a study on CHA management. The role of the
CHA in the public housing program will also be reexamined.
106.      The Tea Development Authority (TDA) receives an annual subsidy
of about Rs 60 million from the central government budget. In order to
improve its financial efficiency it has been decided that TDA will offer
tea plots of between 1 and 2 arpents each to TDA trainees and pluckers
(the available cultivated tea land is 2,895 arpents). As many as
1,500 smallholders from TDA surplus staff may take plots over the next
three years. Some of the other 1,300 surplus TDA employees will be
redeployed to more productive work during this three year period. This
program should result in a doubling of tea export earnings by 1986.
Although Government will have to continue to subsidize TDA, this proposal
is considered economically acceptable since the domestic resource costs
are expected to be lowered to a level equivalent to about 8 Rupees per
US dollar of export earnings in 1984/85. The government has set up a study
group to examine the economic and financial viability of the Mauritius Tea
Industry as a whole. Annex VII describes in detail the Government action
program for tea and TDA.
107.      Debt Monitoring and Management:  The Government has made progress
in monitoring central government borrowing and transactions on foreign
loans. Further, the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development has
acquired computer facilities, and now has the capacity to provide analysis
of the financial impact of new foreign borrowing and its implications for
creditworthiness. Borrowing and transactions on Central government debt
are now closely monitored by the Acccountant General's Office. To improve
debt reporting by parastatals and government-guaranteed agencies, the
Government has instructed all parastatals and agencies to report the status
of individual loan transactions to the Accountant General and to the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development.



- 26 -
PART IV - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT AND GROWTH
108.      The Government's structural adjustment program, as outlined in
Part III, encompassing reforms in key sectors of the economy and in the
management of public resources should, in the medium-term, improve the
overall allocation and efficiency of investment, especially with respect to
export activities, accelerate growth, limit the country's reliance on
foreign savings and reduce the current account deficit to more sustainable
levels. Initially, restrictive economic policies will need to be
implemented to keep the balance of payments deficit at manageable levels.
A flexible exchange rate policy together with measures to restrain the
fiscal deficit and dampen inflation should also improve the climate for
private investments and channel more resources to the productive sectors.
Structural Adjustment and Stabilization
109.      Since 1979, Mauritius has adopted programs supported by
successive stand-by arrangements with the IMF. Central to these programs
has been the adoption of policies in the areas of exchange rate, reductions
in consumer subsidies, wage restraint, restrictive credit and monetary
policies, reduction in the overall fiscal deficit, and the maintenance of a
liberal system of trade and payments. As a result, the rate of increase in
domestic demand has been curtailed. In 1982, the rate of inflation
declined to 11 percent, compared with an average of 28 percent in the
preceding two years, and in the first six months of 1983 the pace of
inflation slowed further. Pressures on the balance of payments were also
alleviated in 1982 and 1983.
110.      The current stand-by arrangement was approved on May 18, 1983,
For a period of 18 months covering January 1983 - June 1984. The
Government's letter of intent refers inter alia to the export promotion
policies, the program of action for the agricultural sector, and the review
with Bank staff of the public investment program.  The stand-by arrangement
calls for further reductions in the overall budget deficit, and aims at an
even more favorable short term balance of payments outcome.  The program
retains a flexible stance regarding exchange rate and interest rate
policies. These policies will help ensure the availability of adequate
credit to the private sector and enhance the environment for implementation
of measures to stimulate foreign investment, exports and growth.
Outlook for Growth
111.      The world price prospects for sugar remain unfavorable; large
sugar stocks held by the major producing countries are expected to exert
downward pressure on prices over the next several years. The scope to
increase domestic production in Mauritius is further limited by the land
constraint, since 90 percent of the cultivated area is already allocated
to sugar. The program of action for this subsector will depend on the



- 27 -
recommendations of the Sugar Commission, but it is likely to focus on
productivity of land-use and agricultural diversification, either as a
substitute for or as a complement to sugar production.
112.      The unfavorable world market conditions for sugar together with
supply side constraints in Mauritius simply reinforce the conclusion that
future growth of income and employment will depend heavily on better
performance in export manufacturing and tourism. Acceleration in the
growth of manufacturing in turn, will induce the growth of the service
sectors, particularly of trade and transport.
113.      A sound base for export manufacturing in Mauritius has already
been established, and its viability demonstrated. Between 1976 and 1979,
real growth in manufactured exports averaged 17 percent per annum while
growth of value added in the manufacturing sector, including import
substitution activities, averaged 9.2 percent per annum. However, since
the beginning of 1979, annual investment in manufacturing has fallen by
50 percent, while the rate of growth of both manufactured exports and gross
manufactures output declined to about 2.5 percent per annum. In the past
two years the f.o.b. value of Mauritius exports of manufactures leveled off
at about $120.0 million. The projection of a resumption of growth in
manufactured exports to 12.0 percent per annum from 1983-87 rests on the
assumption of utilizing some idle capacity in the early years and a
recovery of new investment to a level equivalent to that of 1976 and
1977. This can be achieved if Mauritius adheres determinedly to the
implementation of the policies to stimulate exports and private investment
which the Government has now initiated under the programs of structural
adjustment.
114.      The projection for tourism receipts assumes growth will be
restored to a rate roughly half of what was achieved in the 1970s.
Measures to increase Mauritius' tourism earnings encompass promotional
campaigns, air access policy, and investment strategy. In sum, promotional
government spending will be restored to earlier levels, with emphasis on
high income markets in Europe and off-season promotional campaigns. Air
access policy aims to increase passenger space and develop new markets.
With respect to investment, measures are under way to make more use -- at
lower cost per tourist -- of private vacation homes, while onRoing hotel
expansion should add some 600 rooms in the next twelve months. These
measures and the maintenance of price competitiveness through exchange rate
and other measures should help achieve growth in the range of 7-8 percent
per annum during the next five years.
115.      The Government's program for energy is being supported by
project lending. Substitution of bagasse for imported oil in electricity
generation is the most important component of the country's energy
program. Through oil substitution and conservation, Mauritius aims at
switching from an exclusively oil-dependent economy to one where nearly
half of the energy supply will be generated from non-oil energy sources.
The net foreign exchange savings of this transformation are expected to
equal 20 percent of the country's estimated import bill by the end of this
decade.



- 28 -
116.      With accelerated growth in export processing industries, tourism
and energy, and improvements in agricultural productivity, the overall
growth rate of real GDP could increase to about 4 percent per year
beginning in the mid-1980's from about 2.5 percent realized since 1976
(Table 3). Without developing its export potential, however, there is
little scope for Mauritius to strengthen its overall resource position and
improve on recent growth performance.
Table 3. Growth Prospects With Structural Adjustment
(Annual Rates of Growth in Constant Prices)
Actual                      Projected
1976-79   1979-82                 1983-87
Without Govt.With Govt.
Structural Structural
Adjustment Adjustment
Program     Program
GDP                          6.5       0.0            2.5             4.2
Exports, GNFS                5.4       1.6            2.4             5.4
of which:
Manufactured Goods        17.0      2.4             2.0            12.0
Tourism Receipts 1/       17.0      0.0            4.0              7.5
Source: IBRD staff estimates.
1/ Real growth rates are estimated by using the number of nights spent
by tourists as a proxy.
Government Revenue and Expenditure
117.      The Government is continuing its efforts to stabilize the
economy. Following discussions with the IMF, Government has undertaken
to reduce the budgetary deficit to Rs 1.2 billion in 1983/84, i.e. about
8.8 percent of GDP. Table 4 illustrates the implications of the program
for the public sector as a whole. It projects a reduction of the overall
deficit from 12.8 percent of GDP in 1981/82 to 5.0 percent by 1985/86.
118.      The projected reduction of current expenditures (from 25 percent
of GDP to 22 percent) is in line with the Government policy of wage
restraint, gradual elimination of the subsidy on rice and wheat flour, and
closing of inefficient private secondary schools. The growth in revenue
projected for 1983/84 includes the effect of the sales tax (Rs 190 million)
introduced in January 1983, an improvement in income tax collections due to



- 29 -
the establishment of the Unified Revenue Service, the introduction of new
taxes and the decision to tax properties at their fully assessed value.
It specifically assumes that the education subsidy will be maintained at
Rs 120 million and that the subsidy on rice and wheat flour will be reduced
to Rs 110 million. Should these targets on government revenues and
expenditures not be met, then government capital expenditures would have
to be cut by a corresponding amount.  The projected improvement in current
revenue from non-financial public enterprises reflects the Government's
specific commitment to increase tariffs for water and electricity.
Table 4. Consolidated Public Sector Finances
(millions of Rupees in current prices)
------Actual--------    ---Projected--------
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Revenue                        2111    2312    2750    3322    3791    4228
Current expenditure           -2273   -2723   -3137   -3325   -3485   -3687
Budgetary Savings              -162    -411    -387        -3    +306    +541
Profits from Public
Enterprises                     46       51      61       94      139     219
Capital Expenditures          -1109   -1060   -1141   -1245   -1416   -1608
Overall Deficit               -1225   -1420   -1467   -1154    -971    -848
Grants                          14       68      62       70       80      90
Net Foreign Borrowing          707      746     298      754      511     582
Net Domestic Borrowing         504      556    1107      330      280     176
Memorandum Item
Overall deficit as % of GDP  13.2    12.8        9.9      8.8      6.2     5.0
Note:   Revenue estimates include the receipts of the National
Pension Fund.
Source: IBRD staff estimates.
Balance of Payments Prospects
119.      After deteriorating in 1983, with the depressed level of the
sugar prices, the resource balance should improve progressively, becoming
positive by 1987. If the anticipated growth in manufacturing exports and
foreign exchange earninas from tourism takes place, in 1987 these sectors
would account respectively for about 30 percent and 20 percent of exports
of goods and non-factor services as against 23 percent and 18 percent in
1982. The unfavorable price prospects for sugar is likely to be partially



- 30 -
offset by both continued reduction in imports of petroleum products and
the more favorable oil import prices recently negotiated with Kuwait.
Food imports have been projected to decline in volume by an average of
0.5 percent per year as the Government's commitment to raise the price of
wheat flour and rice should lead to a gradual change in consumption
patterns in favor of local substitutes.
Table 5: Summary Balance of Paynents Projections
(US$ Million)
Preliminary
Actual                        Projected
1982     1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1990
Exports of Roods & NFS             504.3    536.3   641.6   756.9   844.8   942.2  1,300.4
Exports of goods                 366.0    385.6   456.8   538.5   595.8   658.5    879.7
Non-factor services              138.7    150.7   184.8   218.4   248.9   283.7    420.7
Inorts of goods & NFS              536.2    599.1   703.3   788.6   862.3   939.9  1,239.6
Imports of gods                  396.2    453.9   534.5   599.1   655.5   714.5    944.3
Non-factor services              140.0    145.2   168.8   189.5   206.8   225.4    295.3
Pesource bnlance                   -31.9    -62.8   -61.8   -31.8   -17.5       2.4      60.8
Factor service income, net        -45.7    -56.7   -60.5   -66.0   -70.5   -77.2    -97.2
Transfers, net                      30.7     31.8    34.9    38.5    42.3    46.5        61.9
Current Account Balance           -46.9    -87.7   -87.3   -59.3   -45.7   -28.3         25.6
Direct foreizi investment            1.5      2.0      4.0     7.0      9.0    11.0      15.0
Mdiun and long-term capital, net    81.0     58.7    68.3    52.0    63.1    60.0        85.0
Disbursenent                     105.7    113.8   128.5   117.0   114.1   115.0    162.0
AmDrtization                      24.7     55.1    60.2    65.0    51.0    55.0        77.0
Use of INF resources, net           32.0     30.0    15.0      -        -     -15.0    -30.0
Otler capital transactions, net    -48.5      9.0      4.0     0.3    -0.4      0.3       1.4
(Chne in reserves                 -19.1    -12.0      -        -       -      -28.0    -97.0
(-increase)
Debt service ratio
Including IMF repayments          13.2     22.5    23.0    22.0    18.0    15.5        15.0
Excluding INF repayments          14.6     19.7    17.7    16.0    13.2    12.6        11.5
Source: IBRD Staff Estimates.
120.       Even with a significant improvement in the resource balance,
capital inflows would have to be higher than appears feasible in order to
achieve an improvement in the overall balance before 1986. This is because
of the heavy interest and amortization payments due on the external debt.
The overall balance, however, should improve from 1986 onwards. Direct



- 31 -
foreign investment is projected to respond positively to the adjustment
program and the investment promotion campaign. In real terms the average
annual level projected for 1984-86 is not substantially higher than the
inflows which took place during the phase of rapid development of
Mauritius' manufacturing base in the 1970s, when the Certificate Schemes
took effect.  Cumulative disbursements of foreign aid are projected at
$588 million for 1983-87 i.e., with program aid increasing faster than
project assistance. An annual net inflow of about $13 million has been
assumed from commercial banks, in line with IMF forecasts, and is included
in the above projections.
121.      The debt profile of Mauritius deteriorated through end-1982 due
mainly to the increasing share of Eurocurrency borrowing to finance the
current account deficit. The Government has undertaken, in agreement with
the IMF, to limit new borrowing on non-concessionary loans with maturities
of 1-10 years to $50 million, to contract no new loans with maturities of
1-5 years and not to engage in any non-trade external borrowings of less
than one year maturity through June 30, 1984. In consultation with the
Bank the Government has strengthened its external debt monitoring and
reporting and its capacity to analyze the future financial impact of debt
transactions. The debt service ratio, excluding IMF repurchases, will
increase from 13 percent in 1982 to 20 percent in 1983 as a result of the
heavy debt service on previous non-concessionary borrowings. The debt
service ratio would decline progressively to 13 percent in 1986 and
11.5 percent by 1990. Including IMF repayments, the debt service ratio is
projected to increase to 22.5 percent in 1983, and to remain at that level
until 1985, before declining to 18 percent by 1986 and 15 percent in 1990.
Although these levels are high for the next two years, Mauritius is
creditworthy for the projected amount of borrowing in view of its
commitment to the structural adjustment and stabilization programs.



- 32 -
MAURITIUS: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUE                                            STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                             ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
INDUSTRY
1. Promoting Industrial Exports
(a) Maintaining Export               Since 1979 the Government has                 Action - The exchange rate policy will
Competitiveness                  applied a more active and flexible           be kept under constant review by the
exchange rate policy.                        IMF.
(b) Reform of the export                                                           Action - Government will merge and
incentive system                                                              modify Export Certificate and
Development Certificate schemes so as to
provide the same export incentives to
all industrial firms.
(c) Reform of the Protective         - In September 1983 the Government
System                           announced that no further
quantitative import restrictions
would be granted.
- In September 1983 government               Action - Issuance of a satisfactory
appointed consultants to assist in           final report is a condition for the
the preparation of an Industrial             release of the Second Tranche of SAL
Policy Review (IPR).  This review            II.
will recommend a program of action
to replace the current discretionary
system of industrial protection with
a phased program of declining
tariffs.
2 - Encouraging New Investments
in Export Industries
(d) Attracting foreign               - In September 1983 the Government            Action - Early start up of MEDIA's
investors to Export              established the Mauritius Export             operations and satisfactory performance
Processing Industries            Development and Investment                   will be closely monitored by Bank
Authority,  MEDIA is an autonomous           staff.  MEDIA will be partially financed
institution that will enable                 by the Technical Assistance loan.
prospective investors to deal only
with one agency for obtaining all
the necessary information and
clearances to start and operate an
export industry in Mauritius.
(e) Reform of Corporate                                                            Action - The Industrial Policy Review
Taxation                                                                      will consider the disincentive aspects
for investment of the existing corporate
taxation system. Followinz the
recommendations of the IPR and in
consultation with the IMF and the Bank,
Government will take the necessary steps
to reform the tax legislation.
(f) Strenghtening The                - In September 1983, the Government           Action - Board of Trustees and General
Capital Base of Export           established the Mauritius Equity             Manager are to be appointed.  Government
Industries                       Financing Fund.  The MEFF will                is to endow the MEFF with Rp. 100
bolster the equity position of               million.
export industries that show promise
of success.



- 33 -
MAURITIUS: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUE                                          STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                           ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
II - TOURISM
1. Increasing Tourist Arrivals
(a) Improvements in Air             - Discussions have already begun on         Action - Air Mauritius will introdice
Access Policy                  expanding the air route network              new services to Europe and other
serving Mauritius.                          destinations beginning December 1983.
Government will maintain the air access
policy under constant review.
(b) Adequate Funding for            - Government has increased the              Action - Studies under the proposed
Tourism Promotion               budget of Mauritius Government              Technical Assistance Loan will recommend
Tourism Office (MGTO) to an                 (a) new marketing strategies for Tourism
adequate level and granted                  and (b) Institutional improvements in
financial autonomy to this                  MGTO.
institution.
(c) Expanding Room Capacity
Action - Government will provide
investment incentives and permits to
private investors for construction of
600 new rooms. A licensing scheme will
be introduced to allow pivate bungalow
owners to provide accommodations to
tourists.
2. Increasing Receipts from Tourism
Action - Price competitiveness of the
Tourism sector will be kept under
constant review by the MGTO.
III - AGRICULTURE
1. Restructuring the Sugar Sector          - Under SAL I government appointed           Action - Final report to be issued in
a Sugar Commission of Inquiry to            December 1983.  A program of action for
prepare a comprehensive report              the sector will be prepared by the
under terms of reference agreed             Government and discused with the Bank.
upon with the Bank.                         Release of the Second Tranche of SAL II
is contingent on a satisfactory program
of action for the sugar sector.
2. Diversifying Agriculture                - Under SAL I government has                 Action - The Government intends to set
gradually reduced subsidies on              up an Agricultural Diversification
imported rice & wheat flour and             Corporation which will coordinate the
introduced investment incentives            use of underutilized Crown lands as well
for agriculture to stimulate food           as uneconomic Tea lands.  The Government
production for domestic                     also intends to establish a Land Bank
consumption.                                Authority to prevent agricultural land
being converted into other purposes.
The agricultural pricing policy will
continue to provide incentives for
locally produced food commodities. The
Government will also stimulate the
development of livestock and fisheries.



- 34 -
MAURITIUS: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUE                                            STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                             ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
EMPLOYMENT AND WAGES
L. Promotion of Employment                   - Growth-related measures taken so            Action - Labor legislation will be
far to stimulate export-led                  simplified to reduce wage inequities and
industrialization, tourism and               improve labor mnbility among productive
agriculture will help to increase            sectors.  A study on the Industrial
employment opportunities.                    Relations Act leading to a major
revision of this legislation will be
financed under the Technical Assistance
Loan. Wage guidelines set annually by
government will be reviewed by the 1IF
and the Bank.
- As a part of the structural                Action - The Technical Assistance
adjustment program, the Government           project will finance the services of a
is currently reviewing the issues            labor economist and an industrial
of wages and employment in the               relations expert for a complementary
public sector.                               study in the private sector.  The
release of the second tranche of SAL II
is contingent upon the issuance of a
satisfactory interim report containing
recommendations on how to improve the
mechanism for minimum wage negotiations.
Action - The activities of the Central
Manpower Development                      - Government policy for education            Training Organization will be expanded
as a whole is of significant                 to assure that skilled and semi-skilled
importance for work-oriented                 manpower be made available for
education and training activities.           employment in adequate numbers and with
An Education Policy Review is                appropriate qualifications.  A special
currently being undertaken jointly           emphasis will be given to industrial and
by the Bank and government.                  apprenticeship training.
- PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Fiscal Policy                             - IMF is providing assistance for a          Action - Government will reduce the
reform of the tax system in order            budget deficit to about 9.0 percent of
to diversify the tax base and                the CDP in 1983/84 and to 5.0 percent in
increase government revenue.                 1985/86.  Release of the Second Tranche
of SAL II is contingent upon
- The Government is developing a             satisfactory fiscal performance under
program designed to improve income           the IMF stand-by agreement.
tax collections and increase
proceeds from taxes on real                  - Government is committed to redeploy
estate.  Furthermore, the                    2,000 DCW workers.  DCW will be turned
Government is setting up a Unified           into a financially autonomous
Income Board as well as an Income            institution by December 1984.
Tax Tribunal to strenghten the tax
administration.
2- Public Investment Program                 - The Public Sector Investment                Action - The Government will consult the
Program covering FY1984-86 has been          Bank before including in the Public
reduced by 30 percent in line with           Investment Program any new project in
the expected resource                        excess of Rs 100 million.
availabilities.  Priority has been
given to productive sectors.
- The Government has initiated the           Action - This program will be discussed
preparation of a development                 with the Bank and will be financed under
program for the resource poor                the Technical Assistance Project.
Island of Rodrigues which does not
generate adequate resources.
- Revised project evaluation                 Action - The Government will submit a
guidelines agreed with the Bank              report to the Bank on application of new
became effective in July 1983.               project evaluation guidelines to a
sample of selected projects by March
1984.



- 35 -
MAURITIUS: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SECTOR AND POLICY ISSUE                                         STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN                          ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
3. Monitoring Public Finances              - A Standard Accounting System for          Action - The new accounting system will
both public and private enterprises        be implemented by all (non-financial)
has been approved by the                   Public Enterprises and Local governments
Government.                                starting December 1983.  (Private
enterprises will apply same accounting
system starting December 1984).
- To improve its public finance            Action - Beginning in 1983/84, the
management, the Government with the        consolidated public sector accounts will
1983/84 Budget has introduced a            be submitted to the Parliament in each
consolidated account for the public        year with the Annual Budget.
sector as a whole, including all
public enterprises and local
government finances.
- With assistance from the Bank,           Action - Government has undertaken to
the Government has strengthened its        limit new borrowing on non-concessionary
debt monitoring and reporting              loans with maturities of 1-10 years to
capacity.                                  $50 million, to contract no new loans
with maturities of 1-5 years and not to
engage in any non-trade external
borrowings of less than one year
maturity. This undertaking covers the
period through June 30, 1984 and
compliance will be monitored by the IMF.



- 36 -
PART V - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan History
122.      The proposed loan is the second in a series of loans supporting
the Government's structural adjustment efforts. Its components in the
industry and tourism sectors were identified during the preparation of the
first structural adjustment loan in 1980, but a more in-depth analysis
needed to be conducted before a program of action could be defined.  Many
of the studies and actions required under the First Structural Adjustment
Loan were only completed recently. To prevent further delays in the
studies needed to implement the structural adjustment program, the
Government has requested the Bank to provide a technical assistance loan
which is being presented to the Board simultaneously with this Second
Structural Adjustment loan.
123.      The Government made an official request for a Second Structural
Adjustment Loan on September 15, 1982. This loan was appraised and the
structural adjustment program discussed with the Government during two
successive Bank missions which visited Mauritius in October/November 1982
and in January/February 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington
May 10-16, 1983 with a delegation headed by the Hon. S. Lutchmeenaraidoo,
Minister of Finance. More recently the new Government, elected in August
1983, has fully confirmed the agreements reached during the negotiations.
A Statement of Development Policy in conformity with the agreements reached
in May 1983 was submitted to the Bank on September 29, 1983 (see
Annex III).
B. The Proposed Loan
124.      The proposed loan of $40 million (including the capitalized
front-end fee) would finance about 4 percent of Mauritius' merchandise
imports and would meet about 14 percent of the gross external capital
requirements of the country in 1984-85. The loan would support the second
phase of the Government's structural adjustment program, the rationale for
which is discussed in Parts III and IV above. A Statement of Development
Policy has been received from the Government describing the specific
measures that have been or will be taken during this phase of the
Government's structural adjustment program. These measures, and their link
to the first phase measures supported under SAL I, are summarized in the
matrix Table on pages 32 to 35.
125.      As can be seen, although specific measures in industry and
tourism have or will lead to reforms in these sectors, prorress on much of
the structural adjustment program continues to depend on a number of
studies to be executed. Some of them will be critical to the
implementation of the program. A US$5.0 million Technical Assistance loan
to finance these studies is therefore proposed as a companion to the
structural adjustment loan. Satisfactory progress under the Technical
Assistance loan would therefore also be a condition for the release of the
second tranche of the structural adjustment loan.



- 37 -
C. Disbursement and Procurement
126.      The proposed loan would be disbursed in two tranches and is
expected to be fully disbursed within 18 months of loan effectiveness. The
first tranche of $20 million would be available upon loan effectiveness.
As indicated in Schedule 4 of the loan agreement, disbursement of the
second tranche would be contingent on satisfactory review by the Bank of
the following specific actions (Schedule 4, draft Loan Agreement):
a)  adoption of a policy package to restructure the sugar
industry and to diversify agricultural production;
b)  issuance of final report of the Industrial Policy Review
committee;
c)  fiscal performance;
d)  performance under the Technical Assistance loan; and
e)  the interim report of the government committee studying the
mechanism for minimum wage negotiations.
127.      The arrangements for the administration of the import component
of SAL II would be the same as for SAL I. The Government of Mauritius
would be the borrower. The Central Bank would be responsible for
maintaining the loan account and for submitting withdrawal applications and
supporting documentation to the Bank (Section 3.01 Draft Loan Agreement).
128.      Disbursement and procurement procedures should allow the rapid
utilization of loan proceeds. The loan would reimburse 100 percent of the
CIF cost of eligible imports against proof of shipment and payment for a
wide range of imports, the main exclusions being drugs, food, aircraft,
private cars and luxury consumer goods.
129.      Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. All purchases, both for the public and private sectors,
amounting to US$2.0 million equivalent or more will be procured through
international competitive bidding from member countries, Taiwan and
Switzerland. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost less
that US$2.0 million equivalent each will be awarded on the basis of normal
commercial practices of the purchaser.
D. Monitoring of Actions
130.      To monitor the implementation and impact of the structural
adjustment program, the Government will assign, by December 1983, the
responsibility of reviewing the structural adjustment program, elaborating



- .i? -
further adjustment policies and designing new plans of action to the
Economic Management Committee established under SAL I. The Government has
also requested the Bank to finance an adviser for the period of the SAL
program under the Technical Assistance Project. This expert will provide
Government with appropriate policy advice, and follow up the studies being
undertaken by Government. The Government has requested further that
progress be reviewed by the Bank at six-month intervals, to make
appropriate readjustments and continue the close policy dialogue which has
developed. The Bank of Mauritius will appoint a senior official, as with
SAL-I, to be responsible for all aspects of supervision of procurement and
disbursement under the loan.
131.      As in the case of SAL-I, work on the proposed SAL-II has been
carefully coordinated with the IMF, particularly in the areas of fiscal,
monetary, and exchange rate policies.  The IMF staff has been closely
associated with the preparation of the SAL program; IMqF staff participated
in the Bank mission of November-December 1981. With respect to the identi-
fication of the second SAL, the IMF staff has been kept fully informed
of the Government dialogue with the Bank. The SAL-II appraisal mission
took place at the same time as the IMF mission which negotiated the
stand-by arrangement for 1983 and an IMF Technical Assistance mission to
review the government's fiscal system. The Bank mission worked in close
collaboration with both missions. The SAL II program is complementary to
that supported by the 1983 Standby Agreement.
E. Benefits and Risks
132.      Benefits.  The loan is expected to lead to improvements in the
efficiency and allocation of investment and to improvements in the balance
of payments over the medium term. Estimates of the quantitative impact of
these benefits are provided in Part IV above. The current reforms,
together with those implemented under the first phase of the Government's
structural adjustment program, will also be important considerations in the
assessment of the country's creditworthiness by commercial lenders and thus
help maintain Mauritius' access to funds from international capital markets
on reasonable terms. The loan will also provide quick-disbursing foreign
exchange to help the country meet the substantial financing requirements
that it faces during the adjustment period.
133.      Risks.  The Government's structural adjustment program has
three major risks. The first arises from the difficulties in estimating
the quantitative effect of the policy reforms on the economy. The
projections illustrate, on the basis of one set of reasonable assumptions,
what the policy program might achieve during the decade. However, neither
the magnitude nor the timing of long-term benefits or of transitional
disruptions can be predicted with certainty. Hence, although the ultimate
benefits from the reforms are estimated to be considerable, the time path
and profile of the adjustment process are less clear.



- 39 -
134.       The second risk to a successful implementation of the reform
program arises from uncertainties regarding international economic condi-
tions. Restructured trade practices by Mauritius' traditional trade
partners, as reflected in the introduction of voluntary quotas in the US
and the EEC, could hamper the growth prospects for Mauritius' exports and
the scope for foreign borrowings.  The external environment could thus
adversely affect the pace of implementation of the adjustment program and
delay the realization of its benefits.
135.       The third risk is the difficulty which Government might encounter
in introducing and implementing structural adjustment measures which may be
unpopular.
136.       There are, however, a number of features that reduce the above
risks. First, some measures will help prevent the program from being
thrown off track by short-term developments. For example, the flexible
exchange rate policy will tend to protect the balance of payments and avoid
pressure to revert to high tariffs and import controls; also the industrial
rehabilitation and rationalization components should help firms adjust to a
more competitive environment. Second, the Government has so far shown a
strong commitment to the reform program, by providing a large input of
staff time to prepare the policy measures. The Government's specific
request for a program of technical assistance is further evidence of its
determination, in view of its normal reluctance to use Bank loans for this
type of activity.
PART VI - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
137.       To date Mauritius has received five IDA credits and fifteen Bank
loans totalling US$161.8 million, to help finance projects in industry
(US$39.5 million), power (US$22.0 million), ports (US$13.6 million),
agriculture and rural development (US$9.4 million), urban development
(US$15.0 million), water supply (US$12.2 million), education (US$22.2
million) and structural adjustment (US$15.0 million). Our last operation,
a US$15.2 million loan for a Highways project was approved by the Board on
July 26, 1983. IFC made a small loan (US$0.6 million) in 1971 for hotel
development and is currently studying new investment possibilities (Annex
II presents a summary of Bank's operations).
138.       The Bank's operational program in Mauritius has in the last two
to three years, moved into the direction of greater emphasis on the
dialogue on macro and sectoral economic policies that the Government
intends to pursue in the medium term as part of the structural adjustment
of the Mauritian economy. In line with this strategy, a first structural
adjustment loan to Mauritius was approved by the Executive Directors in
FY81.



- 40 -
139.      Meanwhile, our efforts to support renewed growth in productive
sectors are being pursued through project lending.  The project lending
program generally supports government's strategy of economic diversifica-
tion and employment creation through projects in public infrastructure,
utilities, and technical education as a means of laying the foundation for
increased industrialization.  While the dialogue with the Government on
broader policy matters is being actively pursued under the non-project
assistance program (SAL), specific sector issues, i.e. utility service
rates, sectoral budgets, pricing, cost recovery, etc. are being addressed
in the context of individual projects.
140.      Implementation of current projects is generally satisfactory,
and by and large Mauritian implementing agencies are well able to handle
project responsibilities. Two notable exceptions however, were the first
rural development project and the tea development project recently
completed. The rural development project had mixed success in achieving
its objectives. The tea project encountered serious problems caused by
falling international tea prices, inadequacies in project management and
equipment, and lack of interest from smallholders in taking over tea
plots. Government has prepared a plan of action for restructuring the
Mauritius Tea Development Authority with technical assistance under the
Bank T.A. Loan. In addition, a Commission of Inquiry on tea has been set
up to examine the industry-wide problems affectinr tea operations in
Mauritius and to make recommendations for a long-term program of action.
141.      Disbursement performance in Mauritius remains close to Bank-wide
average and is in fact on the increase if one includes the quickly
disbursed first SAL program.
142.      Four audit reports on projects in Mauritius have thus far been
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department. Report No 2101 of June
20, 1978 on the first line of credit made to the Development Bank of
Mauritius (Cr. 313-MAS) showed that the project had made a valuable
contribution to development of the Mauritian economy. Report No. 3761 of
December 31, 1981 on the Tea Development Project (Cr. 239-MAS) discussed
the problems encountered by the project, and concluded that it had not been
successful, especially because of the institutional difficulties arising
from the agency created in connection with the project, the Tea development
Authority. Report No. 4008 of June 28, 1982 on the Coromandel Industrial
Estate (Cr.411-MAS) concluded that the general objectives of the project
had been met, i.e. facilitating industrial development and employment
generation through provision of serviced sites; however, specific targets
on investment and employment were not achieved. In addition, the financial
performance of the industrial estate has to date been significantly below
expectation. A fourth report on the Rural Development Project, Report
No. 3988 of June 22, 1982, was critical of the design of the project,
particularly the failure of its few productive elements.



- 41 -
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
143.      The draft Loan Agreement between Mauritius and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section IV (iii) of
the Article of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately.
Proposed special conditions for disbursements are described in Schedule 4
of the Loan Agreement. The following condition for loan effectiveness
would apply: the Government will appoint a consultant acceptable to the
Bank to assist in carrying out the program of restructuring the Tea
Development Authority.
PART VIII - RECOMMENDATION
144.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.  I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments.
November 16, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 42 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E 3A
MAURITIUS               ^ SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITIUS                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT.ESTlMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOMt          MIDDLE INCCME
1960-       1970-  ESTIMATR-b       AFRICA S. OF SANARA    N. AFRICA & MID eAST
ARM (T1SAID SQ. MO
TOTAL                                 1.9          1.9         1.9
AGRICULTURAL                          1.0          1.1         1.1
GIN PXI CAPITA (US$)                   280.0        400.0      1270.0             1147.9                    1340.0
p_cT COUPITIO  PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      100.0       384.0        524.0              724.2                     810.4
rPOLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)     664.0        829.0       971.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)        33.2        42.0         53.1               2e.5                     47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               1.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 2.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                               2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       357.0       445.7        514.5               56.5                      36.0
PER SQ. EM. AGRI. LAND            664.0       740.2        839.5              131.8                    449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                          45.7        42.1         34.3               45.9                      43.9
15-64 YRS                          51.3        54.6         61.8               51.2                     52.8
65 AND ABOVE                        2.9         3.2          3.8                2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               3.1          2.2         1.4                2.8                       2.9
URBAN                               4.5         4.6          3.6                5.3                       4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         41.4        28.0         26.5               47.6                      42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          8.9          7.6         7.0               L5.2                      12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         1.9          1.4                3.2                       3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            ..         9.8         12.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..        25.0         51.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       111.0        95.0         91.0               95.7                     97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF RSOUIREMENTS)      109.0       106.0        122.0               97.1                     102.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           51.0        50.0         63.0               56.0                     72.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         18.0        18.0         27.0/c             17.2                      17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          11.0          8.7         2.9               23.6                      15.2
NEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        59.1         62.3        65.8               51.9                      57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        70.5        61.1         33.7              117.6                    104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                ..         61.0        60.C/d             25.4                      59.3
URBAN                                ..       100.0        100.0o7T            70.5                      84.9
RURAL                                '         29.0         22.0c7             12.3                      37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         77.0        82.0/d               .
URBAN                                ..        51.0         63.0o7.
RURAL                                          99.0        1oo. o7T
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4680.0      4190.0      2000.0             12181.6                   3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            2100.0/e     820.0        610.0             2292.0                    1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             210.0       250.0        280.0/c           1075.4                     643.3
URBAN                             110.0/e     250.0        290.07i            402.3                    545.0
RURAL                                '         500.0       8o0.o7T           3926.7                    2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSFITAL BED             ..        22.7        30.4/c               ..                      26.4
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.9/e        5.3/f        ..
URBAN                               4.97e         ..
RURAL                               4.87e         ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               1.9/e         ..
URBAN                               I.87e         ..
RURAL                               I.9Te         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DIELLINGS)
TOTAL                              46.9/e       70.1/f        ..                 ..                      46.7
URBAN                              81.97T         ..          ..                  ..                     77.6
RURAL                              29.2/e         ..          ..                  ..                     16.1
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _ _   _ _   _      _      _ _      _      _   _ _   _ _   _ _    _ _ -_ - -_-_  _ -_ _ - -_ -_ _ -_ _ -_ - -_ - -_ _ - _ -_ _ _ - -_ _ - -_ - -_ - -_ -_ _ -_ _ -_ - -_ _ - _ -



- 43 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E 3A
MAURITIUS                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITIUS                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
b/b  RECENT   b          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE IHNCOME
1960-       1970-  ESTIMATE-          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     98.0         97.0       102.0                 97.2                       89.6
MALE                    103.0         98.0        103.0               103.1                      104.8
FEMALE                   93.0         97.0        102.0                88.5                       72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     24.0         28.0         50.0                17.2                      41.7
MALE                     32.0         33.0         51.0                23.5                       52.8
FEMALE                   15.0         23.0         50.0                14.2                       31.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             2.3          1.4          1.3l/               5.2                       10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              36.0         32.0        20.0                 42.9                      31.9
SECONDARY                            22.0         26.0        27.0                 23.7                      23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                60.8/e       80.0/f       79.0                37.1                       43.3
CONSUMFPT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            13.6         15.1         27.5/g              18.8                      18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           60.2        102.5       205.9                 97.8                     138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..         22.9         80.5                18.6                      45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               88.1         78.5         78.6                18.2                       31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        11.D/e       10.2          8.5                 0.6                        1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             200.0        256.0       341.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     19.6         20.0        22.8                 36.1                      10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                40.0         34.0         29.0                56.8                      42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   26.0         25.0        24.0                 17.5                      27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.1         30.9         35.1                37.0                      25.6
MALE                                 48.6         49.6         54.7                47.1                      45.4
FEMALE                               11.8         12.3         15.9                27.0                        5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6          1.5          1.1                 1.3                        1.8
INCOEI   DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             28.0           .          31.0/d
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.0           ..         55.o0d
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.5           ..          4.57.                        
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             14.0           ..         14.o7..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        190.0               534.2                     276.1
RURAL                                  ,.           ..        190.0               255.9                     177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       290.0                491.5                     400.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..       290.0                188.1                     283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         12.0                  ..                      22.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..        12.0                   ..                      30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and ia not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1962; /f 1972; /g 1978.
May 1983



-1101 (0
0061000600   0(61060     -7  ----1 ----                                          ~-4.I,-......
00114   0060            4 o:  -
1000 o00    o oOo-o11o60                000.            10401                         200=00000
10001110104   ~         4110AM                                   04
,!22. r ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      16026                            6(       1       1      0000'            0'        00    11'00
lo10llor40  ol0;l0loldooo   -12 PI               o-o -20100b00Z6t0WI4000
011001126010olOooollooooooolooloo,oo:ooooooooo1001001I0(11462P   10104010010I
60000006 lolA        11064lr0-)o<'o'So1                                             oo . o oo l oo                        o:o(o11'O O
6   101  11011  0121.2  110 111 4 01                 )Ol~l---Lll~~"  1 H04ooo       ;   o o(               000000n.42l1 001
(4 0        6  '00   1101  11<                   4 01-0 0<0
1IT-11-l"                                              ......~~~~~~~~0,414:010          0~11(0           0004 10           '            00
l01l610              110 01100(                Il     04    604 Oo1oO'6026006'4040   00014000
'0010040  001         1061040020041400111t40006o



- 45 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
MAURITIUS - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982
Annual rates of Growth 1/
US$ Mln.        x           1976-79            1979-82
GDP at Market Prices               1080.3       100.0           6.4                 0.1
Gross Domestic Investment           227.5        21.1           4.1               -16.0
Gross Domestic Saving               194.3        18.0           7.7                 6.1
Current Account Balance             -50.2        -4.6           -                   -
Exports of Goods, NFS               498.9        46.2           5.3                 1.7
Imports of Goods, NFS               532.1        49.3           3.6                -9.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added2/           Labor Force3/        V.A. per Worker
US$ Mln.    %           Thousand    %           US$         Z
Sugar                     132.1       14.2         50.0      25.7        2642       56.0
Other Agriculture          55.8        3.9          6.8       3.5        5265      111.5
Other Industry            122.0       13.1         36.6      18.8        3333       70.6
Services                  639.0       68.8        100.9      52.0        6333      134.1
Total    928.9       100.0        194.3    100.0         4721      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
Rs Mln.                    % of GDP
1981/82                    1981/82
Current Revenue                         2222.8                       21.9
Current Expenditures                    2756.4                       25.1
Current Deficits                        -533.6                       -3.2
Capital Expenditure                      922.6                        8.5
Overall deficit                        -1456.2                       11.7
Foreign Financing (gross)                947.7                        6.2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1978     1979       1980       1981      1982
(Rs million outstanding at the end of the period)
Money and Quasi Money                  2861.5    3113.7    3837.4   3992.5   4926.9
Claims on Government (net)             1525.5    1967.9    2396.9   3190.6   3991.1
Claims on private sector               1508.1    1721.6    1881.1   2259.1   2460.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        45.7       40.8       44.1      38.8      41.8
GDP Price Deflator (1976 = 100)         116.6      134.6      171.5    190.1    107.1
Annual percentage changes in =
GDP Deflator                              8.8        15.4       27.4     10.8       8.9
Claims on Government (net)               32.0       29.0       21.8      33.1      25.1
Claims on private sector                 11.5       14.2        9.3      20.1       8.9
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ In 1976 prices.
2/ At factor cost
3/ Employment in large establishments as of September 1982.
October 1983



- 46 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
MAURITIUS - TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLRWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-81)
1979   1980   1981   1982
(US$ Million)                                 US$ mln.  _%
Exports of Goods, NFS        509.2  578.7  494.7  504.3      Sugar                   233.9      62.0
Inports of Goods, NFS        649.7  694.7  614.2  536.2    Mblasses                   10.6       2.8
Resource Gap                -140.5 -127.7 -119.5  -31.9      Tea                       5.8       1.5
Clothings                 9.8       2.6
Investnrent Incomn  (net)    -16.6  -23.1  -45.5  -45.7      Other products          117.4      31.1
Net Transfers                 12.2  20.7  17.3  30.7         Re-exports             ( 76.2)   ( 20.2)
Current Account Balance     -144.8 -188.5 -147.8  -46.9
Total             377.5    100.0
lIg-term Capital              10.0    3.8   7.8    1.5
Net MLT borrowing:            71.6  64.5  36,8   81.0
Disburseirents             (75.6) (76.1) (49.1)(105.7)     DTERNAL DEBT, DE(ER 31, 1982
Anrtization                 (4.0) (11.6) (12.3) (24.7)             (US$ ntllion)
Other capital (net)1/         11.1  75.3    1.8  -16.5
Public Debt, outstanding and
Change in Reserves            52.1  -25.1  101.4  -19.1        disbursed                       393.3
( (-) = increase)
Mem item                                                     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FCR 1981
Use of SDRs                    1.1    0.8  -7.3      -       Public Debt, incl. Ruaranteed   13.22/
Use of IN,F credit            40.8  41.0  64.4  32.0
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (September 30, 1982)
(US$ Million)
RATE OF EXCANE                                                   IBRD    IDA
1979           1980          1981           1982        Outstanding & Disbursed    62.39   20.19
US$1.0=R6.4017 UIS$1.0=7.6896  US$1.0=9.0911  US$1.0=10.8990  UndisbhLrsed              63.50      -
R1.O=US$0.1562 R1.O=US$0.1300 R1.0=US$0.1100 R-1.0=US$0.0920  Outstanding including    125.89   20.19
undisbursed
1/ Includes short-term private capital, SDR allocation and errors and omissions
2/ Debt service payments as percentage of estimated export earnings.
October 1983



- 47 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)
Loan or                                                             US$ million
Credit                                                     Amount (less cancellations)17
Number      Year    Borrower             Purpose           Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
Six Loans and Five Credits have been fully disbursed   43.62    20.42
976-MAS    1974    Mauritius   Port I                     10.00                  .76
1339-T-MAS  1976    Mauritius   Revised Port I              3.60                  .32
1543-MAS    1978    Mauritius   Second Education           15.20                7.07
1548-MAS    1978                  Second Power             15.00                9.12
1789-MAS    1980    DBM           Development Bank V        5.59                 4.09
1926-MAS    1981    Mauritius   Urban Rehabilitation
and Development          15.00                9.44
2164-MAS    1982    DBM           Development Bank VI       6.00                 5.90
2229-MAS    1983    CWA           Water Supply             12.20                11.60
2337-MAS2/  1983    Mauritius   Highways                   15.20                15.20
TOTAL                                        141.41    20.42       63.50
of which has been repaid                    15.52       .23        -
TOTAL now outstanding                        125.89    20.19         -
Amount sold                       4.95
of which has been repaid        4.66          .29
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               125.60    20.19
TOTAL undisbursed                                         -        63.50
B. Statement of IFC Investments (September 30, 1983)
Year         Borrower             Type of Business         Loan      Equity      Total
1971        Dinarobin Inns            Tourism              0.6         -          0.6
& Hotels Ltd
Total gross commitment                      0.6          -         0.6
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        0.56                   0.56
Net held by IFC                             0.04                   0.04
Total undisbursed                           0.0        0.0         0.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments
2/ Not yet effective.



- 48 -                               ANNEX III
4301 CONNECTICUT AVENUE
SUITE 134
WASHiNGTON, D. C. 20008
TEL (202) 244-1491        September 29th 1983
CABLE: MAUREMBA-WASHINGTON
Mr. A.W. Clausen                 TELEX: 64352
President
World Bank
1818 H. St. N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Clausen,
Statement of Development Policy
1.        In 1981, the World Bank made available a first Structural
Adjustment loan to Mauritius to the tune of US$15 million.  In spite of the
assistance received from the Bank, the IMF and other sources, the Mauritian
economy has not recovered. We still need foreign help to redress our
economy. We are, therefore, formally applying to the Bank for a Second
Structural Adjustment Loan for an amount of US$40 million for a two-year
period, with the first tranche to be drawn by December 1983. We are also
requesting a Technical Assistance loan of US$5 million to support our
Structural Adjustment Program. You will recall that we first approached
the Bank for a Second Structural Adjustment Loan in our Letter of September
15, 1982 to Mr. Wapenhans.
2.        One of the first actions of Government after taking office was to
request the assistance of the Bank and the Fund. We endorsed the
conclusions of the last Bank Economic Memorandum on the need to press for
structural reforms. We elaborated, with the help of the Fund staff, a
first budget which emphasized the need for re-adjustment and creating the
conditions for "relance economique". Our basic economic strategy is to
encourage export-led growth, based on export processing industries and
tourism, and - to lesser extent - to replace imports of energy and some
agricultural and manufactured consumption goods. We believe that it will
set the framework for employment creation, thus reducing the high level of
unemployment.  This Statement of Development Policy reflects, to a large
extent, the substance of the discussions which we have had with the Bank.
3.        We give below the details of the policies which we have taken, or
which we intend to take, to bring about the necessary structural
adjustment.  These policies refer to the following areas:
(a) the macro-economic framework and projections for main
aggregates, including the Balance of Payments for the next
three years;



- 49 -
(b) the Public Sector Investment Program and its financing;
(c) the program for export-led industrialization;
(d) the program for tourism development;
(e)  the program for agricultural diversification;
(f)  the policy for housing;
(g)  the program for restructuring parastatal enterprises;
(h)  the strategy in the field of education and manpower
development; and
(i) the program for energy development and conservation.
(a) Macro-Economic Framework
4.        The economy is expected to grow at a rate of 1.4 percent in 1983,
rising to around 4.2 percent in 1985. We expect that this rate of growth
will be maintained in succeeding years. There is little scope for growth
in the sugar sector and we expect that the EPZ and the tourism sectors will
be the main sources of future expansion. The bleak outlook for world sugar
prices in the coming years simply reinforces the conclusion that future
growth of income and employment in Mauritius will depend heavily on the
performance of manufacturing industry. We recognize the importance of
applying policies which increase foreign exchange earnings and savings,
both through supply side measures and through management of aggregate
demand.
5.        One worrying feature in the recent past has been the sharp
decline in the level of savings which has necessitated greater recourse to
foreign borrowing. Our scenario assumes that the domestic savings rate
will start increasing from 16 percent in 1983 to reach 19 percent in 1985.
The decision we have taken to liberalize interest rates is expected to
contribute to this increase and to channel adequate credit to productive
sectors.         -
`6.         Government is determined to adopt a more vigorous approach to its
expenditures. We consider as a feasible target a reduction of the overall
deficit for the public sector as a whole - after consolidation of accounts
of the National Pension Fund and Local Government - from 13.8 percent of
GDP in 1981/82 to 5.0 percent in 1985/86. This reduction is based on an
increase in Government revenues from 21.3 percent of GDP in 1981/82 to
25 percent of GDP in 1985/86. The projected reduction in current
expenditures from 25 percent of GDP to 22 percent of GDP is in line with
the Government policy of wage restraint, reduction in the subsidy on rice
and flour and further reductions in expenditure on the education sector
in the light of the recommendations of the Commission of Enquiry on



- 50 -
Education. We also expect to improve the management of non-financial
public encerprises and to revise tariffs on water and electricity, thus
generating resources contributing to financing the overall deficit. In the
same context, we intend to conduct systematic management and efficiency
audits of the various public enterprises and shall exchange views with the
Bank on this matter.
7.        Government is concerned about underemployment in the public
service and has set up a Committee of officials to find ways of redeploying
the redundant staff into more productive activities.
8.        We are also aware that our budget revenues are too highly
dependent on import duties. As you are already aware, a 5 percent sales
tax has gone into effect since 10th January 1983; and is expected to bring
in an additional revenue of Rs 180 million annually. IMF is providing
assistance for a structural reform of our tax system in order to reduce the
dependence of Government revenues on foreign trade. In the meantime, we
are developing a program to improve tax administration and to enforce tax
collection. In its efforts to prevent tax evasion, Government is the
setting up a Unified Revenue Board as well as an Income Tax Tribunal. A
Bearer Bond Scheme was introduced in January to mop up black money for
development purposes.
9.        New legislation is being introduced to replace: (i) The Banking
Act; (ii) The Insurance Act; (iii) The Bank of Mauritius Act; (iv) The
Companies Act; (v) The Bankruptcy Act; and (vi) The Brokers Act. This
legislation will make the banking and financial institutions as well as the
private companies more responsive to development needs. We are taking
action to improve and strengthen the commercial banking sector. We are
also developing a Standard Accounting System for all undertakings to keep
their records in such a manner as to facilitate auditing and tax
assessment. We expect to finalize our position on this by June 1984.
10.       Under the circumstances, we believe it reasonable to
progressively reduce our current account deficit from about 6.0 percent
of GDP in 1983 to 3.5 percent of GDP in 1985 as against an average of
12 percent of GDP in preceding periods. We expect the deficit to
progressively stabilize around this figure by the end of the decade. Under
this scenario, after a peak of around 20 percent (excluding IMF repayments)
in 1983, we expect the debt-service ratiol/ to decline progressively to
12 percent in 1990. Government is very conscious of the extreme
sensitivity of these forecasts to developments in export promotion and in
tourism growth. Any obstacles such as may arise from retaliatory or
protectionist measures in export markets or even unfavorable climatic
conditions will cause a departure from this scenario.
1/ These figures of debt-service ratio are consistent with the estimates of
IMF and differ only from the latter in their coverage. They include
charges on outstanding IMF purchases while the IMF figures exclude them.



- 51 -
11.       A State Trading Corporation (STC) has been set up for the
importation of basic commodities, in particular rice and flour, and fuel.
The STC will be responsible for the operation of the flour mill and grain
complex when it becomes operational. A Cargo Handling Corporation has been
set up and will operate as a private company with Government majority
participation.
12.       The Bank appraisal mission noted that the machinery for debt
monitoring has been substantially improved.  The Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development has acquired computer facilities and now has the
capacity to provide analysis of the financial impact of new borrowings and
its implication for creditworthiness. Borrowing transactions of the
Central Government are now monitored by the Accountant-General's Department
and the Government is establishing procedures for systematic reporting by
parastatal and other agencies of Government guaranteed debt.  The
Government has established adequate mechanisms to ensure closer monitoring
and coordination of all economic and financial policy issues.
13.       Government has given to the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development explicit authority to prepare macro-economic forecasts and the
latter is in the process of establishing procedures to initiate a system of
rolling 3-year plans. These will serve as a framework for the annual
budget exercises.
14.       Government is conscious of the financial, staffing and physical
constraints which hamper the smooth functioning of its Central Statistical
Office (GSO). Government is determined to overcome these constraints and
is seeking Bank assistance to improve the situation and to provide the GSO
with the necessary computing facilities.-
15.       As you are aware, this Government believes in consulting all
segments of the Mauritian population in national decision-making. The
National Economic and Social Council serves as a forum for all sectors of
opinion and provides an input for policy making.
(b) The Public Sector Investment Program and its Financing
16.       The Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) will be closely
monitored. Government will limit its investment only to projects meeting
sound investment criteria. A manual for project appraisal has been
prepared by the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development and
circulated to all ministries, departments and parastatal organizations.
As you are aware, a Seminar on Project Appraisal for officials of the major
spending ministries and departments has recently been held in Mauritius by
a World Bank staff member.
17.       Government is very much conscious of the need to keep investment
in the public sector at a reasonable level and has had several rounds of
discussions with Bank staff on this subject. As stated previously, the
savings rate in the country has declined drastically over the recent past;
and any additional investment program can only be undertaken through



- 52 -
foreign borrowing on very stringent terms and conditions.  Government has,
therefore, trimmed its investment program and new projects have been
closely scrutinized to ensure that they meet the above criteria before
being included in the PSIP. Projects like the New Airport, the Education
House and the Elevated Motorway through Port Louis have been shelved. In
addition, projects which showed signs of viability at one time but which
are no longer viable under changed circumstances, will be removed from the
PSIP once they have been re-appraised. As agreed in SAL I, the Government
will continue to consult with Bank staff before including any project in
excess of Rs 100 million in the PSIP.
18.       A revised PSIP was prepared and submitted to the Consultative
Group Meeting (Paris, May-June 83). The 3-year program beginning July
1983 is substantially lower than previous plans. The reductions are mainly
the results of financial exigencies. More realistic views about sectoral
absorptive capacities have also been a factor in the compression. We
expect that restraining public borrowing for capital expenditure will
permit some further and desirable scope for the financing of private
domestic and export-oriented activities. They, in turn, will diversify the
economic base on which the necessary services can be built. We have been
very careful not to exclude projects which are of prime importance in our
investment program and we have struck a balance among the various sectors.
19.       A particular aspect of the adjustment program to which we would
like to draw your attention concerns Rodrigues and the Outer Islands. At
present most of the male labour force is on the Government payroll and a
large part of the population receives social benefits of one sort or
another. Rodrigues is increasingly dependent on Mauritius and absorbs
substantial resources. We are conscious that the situation is undesirable
and we will try to foster the development of Rodrigues' own resources to
alleviate in the long-term the financial burden facing the Government while
improving the lot of the poorest. We intend to prepare an integrated
development program for Rodrigues and the Outer Islands and we are seeking
Bank assistance to carry out a techno-economic survey.
20.       Government is very much concerned about the cost-effectiveness of
its investments. This is an aspect that has not been well taken care of in
the past. We have sought professional advice on how to strengthen the
financial management of the economy, and of the public sector enterprises
in particular. We shall keep the Bank informed of the findings and
recommendations of the consultants who are presently carrying out this
study.
21.       We are seeking Bank assistance to carry out independent reviews
of those parts of the Government machinery responsible for implementing the
program of structural reforms to determine the extent to which their
management, staffing, and organizational structure are adapted to the
objectives of their respective sectoral programs. We are also approaching
the Bank for a review of Government management information systems with the
objectives of providing Government with the necessary information retrieval
and processing facilities.



- 53 -
22.       In the past, foreign aid to Mauritius was characterized by a low
rate of disbursement because of delays in project implementation.  The rate
of utilization of foreign aid is now being closely monitored by a
Ministerial Committee which meets every fortnight to take cognizance of
problems and delays in project implementation and aid utilization. This
Aid Coordination Committee is expected to lead to a significant improvement
in aid disbursement in the future.
(c) The Program for Export-led Industrialization
23.       As mentioned previously, the Structural Adjustment Program relies
heavily on a substantial development of the export manufacturing sector.
This strategy of export-led industrialization pre-supposes a certain number
of measures which must be taken to overcome obstacles which are hampering
rapid industrial development.
24.       The prime necessity is to maintain the competitiveness of
Mauritius as a base for export-oriented industry. The single most
important measure is a responsive management of the foreign exchange rate.
Although the rupee is not presently overvalued, the pegging of the rupee to
the SDR, with a high weight of the US Dollar constituted a source of
imbalance. We have now linked it to a new basket of currencies
representing more adequately the weights of our various trading partners.
While the Government believes that the Balance of Payments objectives can
be attained by the pursuit of restrictive fiscal, monetary and wage policy,
it will continue to adopt a flexible stance regarding the exchange rate
policy and will keep the exchange rate under constant review.
25.       To channel more resources to export processing activities, the
Government has decided, as a general rule, to change the present system of
protection for new industries by a general time-phased program of declining
tariffs. The Government will not grant additional quantitative import
restrictions for the purpose of protecting import substitution industries
pending the conclusions of the Industrial Policy Review which will define
criteria for deciding the exceptional cases justifying import
restrictions. This Industrial Policy Review (IPR) is under way. This
Review aims at a comprehensive examination of the system of protection and
incentives available to manufacturing industry in Mauritius. Interim and
final reports containing policy recommendations are expected during the
next twelve months.
26.       To increase the capital base of export processing industries, we
have created the Equity Financing Fund to assist existing viable
enterprises as well as new enterprises in priority sectors. A more
detailed presentation of the Fund is given in Appendix I.
27.       To facilitate credit availability to export enterprises, we have
already liberalized all interest rates. With the assistance of the Fund
we are reviewing the method of assessing the increased tax liability of
resident companies in order to favour retained earnings and thus increase
the capital base of existing enterprises. We intend to announce shortly



- 54 -
the introduction of those measures which we consider necessary for this
purpose. We shall inform the Bank on this matter before December 1983.
28.       We believe that the costs of spot and forward foreign exchange
dealings with the banking system could be reduced in order to provide
further encouragement to exporters. We have consulted the IMF and we are
seeking their assistance to review the costs and other terms of foreign
exchange transactions and foreign exchange management.
29.       We have recently established the Mauritius Export Development and
Investment Authority (MEDIA) to promote foreign investment and export
sales. We are seeking bank assistance to cover the initial operating costs
of the MEDIA for the first three years, and have requested technical
assistance to finance the services of the manager and of appropriate
consultants. The MEDIA will ensure that the investment promotion work done
by our consultants overseas is more cost-effective. (Appendix II).
30.       A Contact Promotion Program in the Middle East, whereby our
exporters can have direct contact with importers in the Middle East, was
started in May 1983, to follow up on the recommendations of the market
study carried out earlier. The Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
financed this program. A market survey is now underway in the U.S. and
Canada.
31.       We believe that the whole nation should be sensitized to the
importance of export promotion. We will mount a national publicity
campaign to accomplish this and will arrange to monitor progress in
exports.
32.       The Industrial Coordination Unit (ICU) is being upgraded to allow
it to act as a "one-stop shop". The head of ICU will be appointed by
October 1983. (Appendix III).
33.       Participation in Trade Fairs will be an important element in the
export promotion program. The Government will continue to encourage
Mauritian exporters to participate in specialized Trade Exhibitions. There
will also be close monitoring and follow up of the results obtained.
34.       Productivity is a key issue for the industrial sector and the
latter's survival will depend on how we will stand competition from the
existing and emerging export processing zones in other countries. A
Productivity Council will be set up comprising representatives from
Government, the private sector and trade unions. The Productivity Council
will include a representative from the Central Training Office for that
purpose. Government is seeking expert advice to set up this Council.
35.       In order to help entrepreneurs with the heavy costs of training,
whether for a new enterprise or for an enterprise starting a new line of
production, an Industrial Training Scheme will be set up. Under the Scheme
a training levy will be imposed on a sectoral basis and Government will



- 55 -
contribute on a matching basis to an Industrial Training Fund (ITF).
Assistance for training will be made available from the ITF which will work
in close collaboration with both the Productivity Council and the Central
Training Office.
36.       Government attaches significant importance to the development of
small scale industries. We feel that this sector will be able to create a
substantial amount of employment for the unemployed. A Small Scale
Industry Development Organization has been set up to provide guidance to
small entrepreneurs. It will advise small businessmen about design,
marketing and the costing aspects of business organization. Details are
given in Appendix V.
(d) The Program for Tourism Development
37.       Government fully recognizes that the success of our Structural
Adjustment Program will depend, inter alia, on the further development of
the tourism sector. However, the strategy to be followed will be to
maximize foreign exchange earnings without incurring heavy capital
expenditure. We will, therefore, put into place a comprehensive program as
outlined below.
38.       Government will keep the air access policies under constant
review with the objectives of maximizing the flow of tourist arrivals. New
tourist points to be served by Air Mauritius are being actively explored.
Commercial agreements between Air Mauritius and other airlines serving
Mauritius will be kept under constant scrutiny. The possibility of
introducing charters to tourist points not served by scheduled carriers is
being actively looked into.
39.       Government will intensify its promotion program in the main
tourist generating countries to sustain the growth in existing markets and
to tap new source markets. The Mauritius Government Tourist Office (MGTO)
will continue to participate in international tourist fairs and intends to
participate in three fairs in Europe instead of two planned for 1983.
Market expansion and improved penetration in existing markets will
require additional promotion activity and a substantial increase in the
budget of the MGTO. A minimal budget of Rs 14 million will restore the
budget in real terms to pre-devaluation level. To this end, the MGTO will
be given a greater measure of financial autonomy.
40.       Under the program of Technical Assistance with the World Bank,
it is intended to study the long-term role and organizational structure,
staffing and training needs of MGTO and the different market conditions
in potential markets which affect air services and promotion activity.
Promotion work in the USA, a new market for Mauritius, has begun.
41.       In order to keep hotel prices competitive, the pricing policy of
hotels will be reviewed. Government will institute a plan to monitor
closely hotel prices in Mauritius vis-a-vis our main competitors and will



- 56 -
institute an early warning system for our hoteliers to take corrective
action if there are indications that Mauritius is losing its
competitiveness.
42.        It is encouraging to note that after a period of relative
stagnation, the private sector has once again come up with project
proposals aiming at a substantial expansion of bed capacity. This
comprises both new projects as well as expansion of existing
establishments. Government stands ready to provide the necessary financial
resources to complement the resources to be mobilized by the private
sector. Government has already approved the construction of two new hotels
and the expansion of four existing ones. It is actively giving
consideration to three other hotel projects.
43.        It is estimated that there are at present about 1,500
campements" in Mauritius and a large proportion of these bungalows are
not occupied by their owners on a year round basis. As part of our
efforts, both to cater for the increased tourist traffic flow expected from
air charters and to keep capital costs in hotel construction low,
Government will introduce a licensing scheme to allow these private
bungalows owners to provide accommodation for the increased traffic flow.
The MGTO will establish a register of these licensed bungalows and will
provide the focal point for contact between potential customers, tour
operators and bungalow owners.
44.       Tenders have already been examined and the contract awarded for
the first stage of the renovation of Plaisance Airport. This first stage
consisLs of resurfacing of the runway, the construction of a control tower
and navigational aids. The Runway resurfacing is expected to be completed
by November 1983. The Chinese Government has agreed to redirect funds
originally earmarked for the construction of a new airport 'at Plaine des
Roches to finance the second phase of the Plaisance Redevelopment Project.
We have approached the British Government and the CCCE for financial
assistance for the second phase of the project which includes terminal
buildings, parking facilities and road access to the terminal and taxiway.
Work on the second phase will start as soon as negotiations are finalized.
Work will also start soon on the first leg of the Phoenix-Mahebourg road
covering Phoenix-La Vigie in order to improve access to the airport.
45.       The French Government has agreed to provide assistance for the
construction of an airstrip on the outlying island of Agalega. A request
has also been made to the French Government for a new technology commuter
aircraft for the inter-island services.
46.       In order to maximize earnings from tourism, Government will take
measures to encourage the use of more local food in the hotels and the sale.
of local handicraft will be actively promoted through a comprehensive
package designed to train local craftsmen in handicraft production.



- 5 7 -
Necessary measures will be taken to help the craftsmen to produce and
market their products. A central coordinating body will be set up with the
task of grouping all handicraft producers and providing an "extension
service" as feedback information on the industry so as to improve and help
the handicrafts sector. Government has sought technical and financial
assistance for this sector from such aid sources as the European
Development Fund, UNDP and the French Government.
(e) The Programme for Agricultural Diversification
47.       In agriculture, the Government intends to focus its efforts on
restructuring the sugar industry and on diversifying agricultural
production. The two objectives are linked since sugar dominates
agricultural production and cultivable acreage. Any measure to introduce
agricultural diversification would be complementary to, or a substitute
for, sugar production. In the latter case, the establishment of the
economic costs and benefits of the acreages kept under sugar cultivation
would be a precondition for diversifying into other crops.
48.       Government has already set up a Commission of Inquiry on the
Sugar Industry and all interested parties were invited to submit memoranda
by mid-February. Formal hearings began in March and continuedthrough
August 1983. The draft report is expected in September and the final
report by December this year. We have requested Technical Assistance from
the Bank to support the work of this Commission. We expect to develop a
plan of action in consultation with the World Bank by March 1984.
49.       We intend to reduce further the import of food items by
encouraging local production through the extension of guaranteed prices
to other commodities, in particular paddy, ginger, turmeric, groundnuts,
dried chillies and cardamoms. As you know, we are gradually reducing
subsidies on rice and flour to discourage their consumption in favour of
locally-produced products like maize and potatoes. We have already started
a campaign to sensitize the public about the necessity of changing
consumption habits in favour of locally-produced foodstuff.
50.       We intend to establish a Land Bank Authority.  This Authority
will be responsible for zoning lands and will have pre-emptive rights on
land transactions. It will be empowered to license all sales of lands and
will be able to purchase land for eventual sale. We expect that this
measure will prevent good agricultural land from being directed for housing
purposes. We will also discuss and develop measures to prevent
fragmentation of sugar lands which has, in the past, resulted in the
emergence of uneconomic units.
51.       To support its agricultural diversification programme, the
Government intends to set up an Agricultural Diversification Corporation
(ADC). This Corporation will coordinate the use of unutilized and under-
utilized Crown Lands and privately-owned lands. We plan to obtain
Technical Assistance for ADC.



- 58 -
52.       In order to promote agricultural diversification, we will
mobilize all available land resources.   We will ensure that more land is
available for foodcrop production through the release of rotational and
first to third ratoon cane lands of miller planters and large planters as
well as uneconomic tea lands and unutilized Crown Lands. A Fact-Finding
Committee is now making an inventory of all Crown Lands with a view to
identifying unused and underutilized Crown Lands for development purposes.
We have set up a Study Group to make an in-depth review of the tea sector.
Technical Assistance has been sought from the Bank to support the work of
both the Fact-Finding Committee and the Study Group.
53.       Stage I of the Northern Plains Irrigation Project is presently
operated at only 67 percent capacity because of the poor state of the main
pipeline which supplies water to the project area. We are presently
carrying a study to determine the best alternative for its replacement.  We
are also examining the possibility of adopting drip irrigation with a view
to improving the economy of water use and reducing energy cost.
54.       To further increase the production of foodcrops, a small-scale
irrigation project covering an area of 556 arpents will be implemented at
Belle Mare - Trou d'Eau Douce. A project for the setting up of two
maize-drying plants will be implemented during 1983. It will help increase
maize production by some 3000 tons. We are also exploring the possibility
of setting up a cold store for onions.
55.       Government's objective is to produce 40 percent of the country's
meat requirements by 1990. We have a major programme of technical and
financial cooperation with the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation and
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) to support the development
programme in the meat and milk sector.
56.       We have taken measures to-prevent over-fishing of our lagoons and
the destruction of coral reefs.  We are seeking Technical Assistance to
make a study of marine pollution in general. We also intend to set up a
National Fishing Corporation and have sought Bank assistance to elaborate a
fishing development strategy.  A new study on regional fishing is being
carried out in 1983 and we will ask the Bank to review its findings.
(f)  The Policy for Housing
57.       Government policy is to improve housing conditions for the
poorest segment of the population. However, despite the urgent needs, in
view of its current financial situation, Government has decided to limit
the allocation for housing to 6 percent of the total Public Sector
Investment Programme. We will also take measures to discourage luxury
expenditures in housing by applying ceilings to mortgage lending. To
encourage the private sector to be more active in this area, we would
review the existing system of rent control with the objective of
liberalizing it by December 1984.



- 59 -
(g)  The Programme for Restructuring Parastatal Enterprises
58.       Government has undertaken a programme to reinforce the efficiency
of parastatals. We have developed a plan to redeploy some 2,000 DWC
workers and the DWC will be given financial autonomy by December 1984. We
have also decided to convert 2,895 arpents of TDA lands into smallholder
plots. This will provide full time employment to 1,500 smallholders, to be
drawn as far as possible from the existing redundant staff of TDA. We also
expect to redeploy by mid 1985 an additional 1,250 employees into more
productive work. As regards CHA and MHC, after a thorough review of their
respective roles, we expect to formulate a reorganization program by June
1984. We have requested Technical Assistance from the Bank to assist us in
the task of restructuring the three parastatals. In the case of DWC, in
addition to the provision of the services of a Senior Financial Controller,
we have asked for a review of plant and equipment maintenance and
management as well as of an overall plan of action. For TDA, Bank
assistance is sought to assist in the on-going reorganization. For CHA,
the Bank has been approached for assistance to re-examine its management
problems and to make recommendations to transform it into an efficient
organization. Appendix V gives further details of the programme for the
three parastatal bodies, namely DWC, CHA and TDA.
(h) The Strategy in the Field of Education and Manpower
59.       The education system has gradually become inefficient and too
costly. Government has appointed a Commission of Inquiry to look into the
education system and produce a policy paper on education. Our target is
to contain education expenditures to 4 percent of GDP and / or 14 percent
of current budget expenditures. We have already achieved this target in
1982/83. We expect to increase the pupil/teacher ratio, retrain the
Oriental Language teachers into General Purpose teachers and to close
substandard private schools. We have already closed three of them and
18 have been denied financial assistance. (Appendix VI gives details).
60.       We are deeply concerned by the high level of unemployment
(22 percent) currently prevailing in Mauritius. We expect to alleviate
this situation mainly by creating a proper environment for foreign direct
investment, and have already taken measures to encourage local savings and
productive investment and to promote self-help projects and small-scale
local industries. We are also making efforts to find job opportunities for
our educated labour force. We have agreed to provide Zimbabwe with
260 private school teachers. We have also encouraged teachers to sign
contracts of employment with the Government of Seychelles. We are also
encouraging skilled manual workers to find employment overseas and
particularly in the Gulf States. 800 workers were thus able to find
employment in 1982.



- 60 -
61.       A manpower development programme for the next decade will be
prepared very soon. We have approached the Commonwealth Fund for Technical
Cooperation to provide us with the necessary expert assistance.
62.       We also realise that the present labour legislation and the
mechanism for wage negotiations are cumbersome, create wage inequities
among various sectors, and prevent mobility among the economic sectors. We
are requesting Bank assistance to review this mechanism and help us to
formulate a proper policy. We are initiating a number of studies which
hopefully will lead to the formulation of new policies which will
constitute part of our third Structural Adjustment Programme and for which
we expect to seek Bank assistance in due course. In the meantime, we shall
reduce substantially the number of public holidays which now stands at 23
and compensate such reduction by an increase of annual leave.
63.       Government has instituted an Unemployment Hardship Relief Scheme
and intends to set up a Contributory Unemployment Scheme. Bank assistance
is sought to review and harmonize policies and measures in these areas.
(i) The Program for Energy Development and Conservation
64.       Government is fully aware of the seriousness of the situation
concerning the energy bill and its long-term implications on the national
economy. In this context, Government intends implementing a series of
policy measures designed to:
(i) optimize the use of indigenous sources of energy; and
(ii) promote energy conservation.
65.       In 1981, Government commissioned a French consulting firm,
Transenerg, for carrying out a detailed study on the better use of bagasse
for electricity generation. On the basis of the study, one sugar factory,
FUEL, has already taken the decision to renovate its boilers so as to
guarantee a minimum output of 35 Gwh annually as from June 1984. There is
a need to encourage further factories to embark on the production of
electricity from bagasse on a large scale.  In order to achieve this
objective, Government intends to identify, over the next twelve months, two
or three sugar factories which would be willing to invest in the purchase
of new boilers and ancillary equipment so as to be able to generate
electricity from bagasse as from June 1985. In order to carry out the
investment required, which is presently estimated at Rs 400 million,
Government will need foreign financial assistance.
66.       While electricity generation from loose bagasse will require the
renovation of the sugar factory boilers, such an investment will only be
utilized during the crop period, unless some system for storing bagasse for



- 61 -
use during the inter-crop period is adopted.  Government has decided to set
up a pilot pellet plant that would provide the necessary information as to
whether pelletisation can be adopted under the local conditions. With the
assistance of Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, Government intends
to have the bagasse pelletisation plant installed by August 1984.
67.       In the field of hydro-power, the major sources of
hydro-electricity have already been identified and are in the process of
exploitation. There exist, nevertheless, some mini-hydro possibilities in
the country. While in terms of firm power, the impact of the development
of potential mini-hydro sites may be negligible, Government, with the
assistance of the UNDP, has carried out a pre-feasibility study on the
available mini-hydro sites in Mauritius. The final report is expected to
be available shortly.
68.       Despite all attempts at harnessing the indigenous sources of
energy, the expected demand curve for electricity will still require inputs
of imported fossil energy. In order to examine the investment alternatives
required for electricity production from either coal or oil and the size of
plant required to meet the expected demand load up to the year 2000,
Government is presently negotiating technical assistance.
69.       While the possibility of partial substitution of local energy
sources for imported fuel is a viable option for electricity generation,
possible substitutes for the other energy uses are scarce and not yet
commercially proven. One substitute for the transport sector fuel is
ethanol which can be used as a fuel extender in an appropriate
ethanol/gasoline blend. Government has been contemplating the
establishment of an ethanol plant in order to substitute 20 percent of
gasoline for the transport sector. A Steering Committee has been
established to re-appraise the project and the views of the Bank will be
sought before embarking on such a project.
70.       Research work on alternative and renewable energy sources, such
as wind and solar energy, is being carried out and Government intends to
follow such developments closely in order to be able to assess their
potential for the country.
71.       We appreciate that the Structural Adjustment Program we have
outlined above, comprising as it does a range of measures cutting across
several sectors, requires close monitoring and follow-up. We would like to
review the progress achieved with the Bank at six-month intervals in order
to make the appropriate re-adjustment and continue the close dialogue we
have developed with the Bank staff. We also intend to obtain special
expertise to assist us to monitor our programs of reforms including the
reforms covered by SAL II.



- 62 -
72.        We have outlined in the preceding paragraphs the concrete
measures and policies which Government intends to take to redress the
economy. We assure you that it is our firm intention to go ahead with the
task of national economic reconstruction and consolidation. We hope that
we have justified the need for Mauritius to have a Second Structural
Adjustment Loan. We would be grateful if this Loan could become effective
and disbursements made as rapidly as possible.
Yours sincerely,
(S. BOOLELL)                          (S. LUTCHMEENARAIDOO)
Minister of Economic Planning                 Minister of Finance
and Development



- 63 -
LIST OF APPENDICES
Appendix I                          The Programme for Export-led
Industrialisation: The Equity Financing
Fund (MEFF)
Appendix II                         The Programme for Export-led
Industrialisation: The Mauritius Export
Development and Investment Authority
(MEDIA)
Appendix III                        The Programme for Export-led
Industrialisation: The Industrial
Coordination Unit
Appendix IV                         The Programme for Export-led
Industrialisation: The Small Industry
Development Organisation
Appendix V                          The Programme for Restructuring
Parastatal Enterprises
(1) Development Works Corporation
(2) Central Housing Authority
(3) Tea Development Authority
Appendix VI                         The Strategy in the Field of Education
and Manpower Development



- 64-                       APPENDIX I
The Programme for Export-led Industrialisation:
The Equity Financing IFund ot Mauritius
This Fund will be financed by Government grants, and will be
administered by a full-time Manager. It will be prepared to match, rupee
for rupee, equity contributions paid in cash by investors in eligible types
of enterprises. Export-oriented companies will be favoured, but
high-quality import-substituting firms will also be considered.
The Manager will report to a Board of Directors consisting of public
officials and private-sector representatives. Quarterly statements of
equity investment and earnings will be required. Preference shares and
other instruments will be used to provide financial resources to promising
companies and to share in their successes as well as their occasional
failures. Owners will be encouraged to buy MEFF out, through the
distribution of profits, so that the resources can be recycled to
additional enterprises.
It is anticipated that, in many cases, MEFF will assist companies,
including those receiving DBM term loans, to create a sound financial
structure, after which the commercial banks will be encouraged to provide
working capital credits.



-65 -
APPENDIX II
The Programme for Export-led Industrialisation:
The Mauritius Export Development and Investment Authority
In line with the concept of the one-stop shop, which will enable
prospective investors to deal with only one agency for obtaining all the
necessary clearances to start and operate an industry, a Mauritius Export
Development and Investment Authority (MEDIA) has been set up to deal
essentially with investment and export promotion activities. The functions
of the Authority are:
(i)  to promote, assist and develop exports from Mauritius;
(ii) to engage in investment promotional activities designed to
promote Mauritius as an attractive base for the establishment
of export-led industries;
(iii) to plan, implement and review programmes of action for the
development of exports and investment in industries
manufacturing for export;
(iv) to develop and manage industrial sites and buildings within the
framework of the National Physical Development Plan; and,
(v)  to advise Government on all matters relating to the development
of exports and investment promotion.
2.     The MEDIA will re-organise the current export and investment
promotion functions of the Ministry of Industry and Cooperatives. It will
act as a contact point for potential foreign investors and importers,
provide them with all necessary information and put them in contact with
local businessmen as well as advise them. The Authority would also look
into such matters as designs, product development, packaging, advertising
and aftersales services.



- 66 -
APPENDIX III
The Programme for Export-led Industrialisation:
The Industrial Coordination Unit
Government has already set up an Industrial Coordination Unit (ICU)
within the Ministry of Industry and Cooperatives. The ICU will primarily
be responsible for streamlining procedures regarding applications for
Development Certificates, Export Enterprise Certificates and Export Service
Zone Certificates. It will act as a "one-stop shop" where all facilities
will be provided to potential investors.
Steps are being taken to make the Unit fully operational as soon as
possible. Letters have been issued to Heads of Ministries and other
organisations informing them of the creation and functions of the Unit and
inviting them to nominate liaison officers to the Unit. Besides,
administrative actions are being initiated to seek financial clearances for
the provision of funds for the recruitment of staff and purchase of
equipment.



67 -                   APPENDIX IV
The Programme for Export-led Industrialisation:
The Small Industry Development Organisation
1.     With a view to promoting the development of the small-scale
industrial sector, a Small Industry Development Organisation (SIDO) has
been set up. The objectives and functions of SIDO are as follows:
(i) to formulate policies, plans and programmes of development of
small industries;
(ii)  to accelerate comprehensive development of small industries in
accordance with the Government's established priorities;
(iii) to undertake surveys of possibilities of development of small
industries on a national and regional basis;
(iv)  to prepare model schemes for high priority industries;
(v) to undertake market surveys and provide counselling, guidance
and information to small entrepreneurs;
(vi)  to plan, establish and manage mini-industrial estates;
(vii) to provide technical guidance and consultancy services;
(viii) to conduct training for small entrepreneurs; and,
(ix)  to coordinate action with various Government Departments and
other organisations in the field of small industries
development.
2.     The SIDO will help mobilise young entrepreneurs to start small-scale
industries, especially in rural areas, thereby creating productive
employment opportunities. In addition, SIDO will ensure the maximum
utilisation of local raw materials.



- 68 -                     APPENDIX V
The Programme for Restructuring Parastatal Enterprises
I.     Development Works Corporation
1.     The existing structure of the Development Works Corporation (DWC)
will be reorganised and the operations of the Corporation will be made more
cost-effective.
2.     The DWC will concentrate more on civil engineering works, where it
has experience. Other areas of activities like agro-forestry will be
transferred to other agencies. The DWC will transfer by December 1984 some
2,000 workers presently engaged in forestry and agricultural activities to
the Forestry Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural
Resources. A Committee of officials of the ministries concerned has been
appointed and will look into the transfer procedures and the rate at which
such transfers could be made to ensure a smooth transition.
3.     Further, it is intended to transfer the Mixed Farming Centres and
the labour force attached to these Centres to the Agricultural
Diversification Corporation at a later stage.
4.     The Finance Division and the Transport and Plant and Equipment
Sectipn of the DWC are not operating as efficiently as they should be.
Consequently, assistance from the World Bank is being sought for a study to
be. carried out in these sectors to gear the DWC more in line with its new
role.
5.     The DWC will act as a contractor and will become an autonomous
financial institution by December 1984, and will bid for public tenders.
At end-May 1983 it had already secured by way of public tenders, contracts
amounting to Rs 8 million in addition to some Rs 17 million worth of work
already in hand. Besides, some Rs 50 million worth of contracts are being
negotiated.
6.     The DWC will take up such additional activities as operating sand
quarries and, as a start, will provide sand to the Central Water Authority
for water filtration purposes.



- 69 -                       APPENDIX V
Page 2
II.    Central Housing Authority
7.     The Central Housing Authority (CHA), a parastatal body, has
traditionally been associated with post-cyclone housing reconstruction
programmes. Under these programmes, houses are built for the low-income
group. However, as a result of the high cost of construction of CHA
houses, Government subsidies do not fully benefit the beneficiaries. On
the other hand, the CHA has, to a large extent, come to rely on Government
assistance. This has an inevitable impact on the public budget.
Government objective is, therefore, to improve the efficiency of the CHA,
to reduce its dependence on Government and to make it a viable housing
institution.
8.     The comparatively high cost of CHA-built houses is the result of a
number of factors. These include:
(a) the low productivity of CHA workers;
(b) weak management structure;
(c) inadequate technical supervision; and,
(d) poor financial management.
9.     As a first step towards improving the overall management of the CHA
a technical study will be carried out. This study will examine the
inherent management problems in the CHA and will propose changes which will
eventually help the CHA develop into an efficient housing institution.
10.    Government will also re-examine the role of the CHA in the public
sector housing programme. This is necessary to determine the future
involvement of the CHA in the implementation of the low-cost housing
pogramme. In the light of the definition of the role of the CHA, the
allocation of resources for public sector housing among various
institutions will be made.
11.    Government is conscious that there is surplus and under-utilised
labour at the CHA. A study of the requirement of the CXA for labour,
bearing in mind the housing programmes it will be called upon to implement,
will be carried out and completed by June 1984. The surplus labour will
then be transferred to other public sector institutions where they can be
more usefully employed.
12.    Government feels that a more practical way to provide low-cost
houses is through the provision of loans rather than built-houses which, in
many cases, increase the cost to the beneficiaries. Government will,
therefore, reconsider its present policy of providing built-houses through
the CHA. Consideration will be given to providing loans to the low-income
group through the Mauritius Housing Corporation (MHC).



_ 70                            APPENDIX V
Page 3
III.   Tea Development Authority
13.    As a result of a detailed study of the Tea Development Authority
(TDA), we have become fully aware of the enormous drain which this
Authority imposes on the country's resources. This has come about due to
excessive staffing, low productivity and depressed market conditions
over a number of years until it has reached a stage when government is
having to subsidize TDA's operations to the extent of Rs 62 million per
year. This is obviously a situation which we cannot allow to continue.
14.    It has been decided, therefore, that we will offer tea plots of
between 1 and 2 arpents each to those people who were taken on by TDA as
trainees and pluckers. The amount of cultivated tea land available is
2,895 arpents, and this will be sufficient, at 2 arpents each, for
1,448 smallholders. There are 1,147 trainees and pluckers available and
the balance of 301 will be available from other surplus TDA employees or
even people outside the TDA. There are already 200 applicants for plots
from outside TDA. As some-people may wish to have less than 2 arpents
each, it is estimated that as many as 1,500 smallholders from TDA surplus
staff may wish to take plots over the next three years.
15.    By this operation it is estimated that the current TDA deficit of-
Rs 62 million per year will be reduced to Rs 55 million per year while, due
to increased productivity, the foreign exchange earnings from TDA tea will
rise from Rs 47 million to Rs 89 million per year. It is still necessary,
however, to reduce the deficit further and this will be achieved by
redeploying the 1,263 surplus employees, who will still remain after the
allocation of plots, to more productive work during the three-year period.
This will result in a further saving to TDA of Rs 31 million, thereby
reducing the deficit to Rs 24 million. Beyond the three-year period, it is
anticipated that smallholder crops and tea production will continue to
rise, factory manufacturing costs will be reduced and the deficit reduced
even further. At this stage, it is not possible to quantify the
reduction. Government proposes to obtain immediately the services of a tea
expert under the World Bank Technical Assistance Loan to assist in the
implementation of this project and, in the meantime, has appointed a new
Chairman to the TDA.



- 71 -                APPENDIX V
Page 4
16.    Government has set up a Study Group to examine in depth the
Mauritius tea industry as a whole. The study will focus on, but will not
necessarily be limited to, farm budgets and cost of green leaf production,
cost and methods of green leaf transport, foreign and local costs of
manufacture, infrastructural improvements required to improve production
and factory improvements necessary to cope with increased yields and to
enhance the quality of Mauritian tea. The Study Group will clearly
identify the economic and financial viability of the Mauritius tea industry
and make recommendations regarding its future. Consideration is being
given to the possibility of providing foreign technical support to the
Study Group if required.



- 72 -                   APPENDIX VI
The Strategy in the Field of Education and Manpower Development
1. Expenditure on Education
(i)     Expenditure on Education is presently 14 percent of Government
Recurrent expenditure.
(ii)    Capital expenditure is entirely concentrated on ongoing
projects.
(iii)   Government is considering the setting up of an
inter-Ministerial Committee whose terms of reference
would be to study the-feasibility of introducing a
graduated system of fees at upper secondary level and
to review the grant system presently used by the Private
Secondary Schools Authority.
2. Pupil/Teacher Ratio
(i)     Only 105 trainee primary school teachers were recruited instead
of 140 as in previous years.
(ii)    The recycling of Oriental Language teachers into General
Purpose teachers is being prepared.
(iii)   Only few Education Officers have been recruited in areas where
there was a felt need.
(iv)    Admission to Junior Secondary Schools has been increased by
about 200 compared with last year.
3. Pre-Primary Education
The training programme is being implemented.



APPENDIX VI
Page 2
4. Age of Admission to Primary Schools
(i)     Very few schools have actually admitted 4+-year olds this year.
(ii)    As from next year, only 5-year olds will be admitted.
5.  National Form III Examination
(i)     A full-scale national mock examination will be held this year.
(ii)    The National Examination will be official from 1984.
6.  Central Training Office
(i)     Central Training Office is expected to be able to cater for
Form III school leavers after 1984 National Form III
Examination. Priority will be given to the preparation of a
training programme for them.
(ii)     Legislation setting up the CTO will be finalized in the light
of the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry on Education.
The Commission started public hearings in May 1983 and is
expected to produce its report by end-October 1983.
7. Community Schools
(i)     Action relating to the phasing out and replacement of community
schools with pre-vocational schools will be taken in the light
of the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry on
Education.
(ii)     A special training programme for teachers of these schools has
been started at the Mauritius Institute of Education and is
expected to be completed by December 1983.
8.  Sub-standard Private Secondary Schools
Three of these schools have not been re-registered and eighteen have
not been given grants by Government.
9.  School Psychological Service
The Service has started on a pilot basis.



- 74 -                         ANNEX IV
MAURITIUS
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
I. TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 6 months
(b) Initial Discussion with the Bank: October 1982
(c) Appraisal Mission: October/November 1982, January/February
1983
(d) Negotiations: May 10-16, 1983
II. SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF THE LOAN
Disbursement of the second tranche (US$20 million) would be
contingent on a satisfactory review by the Bank of the following specific
actions (Schedule 4, draft Loan Agreement):
(a) adoption of a policy package to restructure the sugar
industry and to diversify agricultural production;
(b) issuance of final report of the Industrial Policy Review
Committee;
(c) fiscal performance;
(d) performance under the Technical Assistance loan; and
(e) the interim report of the Government Committee studying the
mechanism for minimum wage negotiations.
III. SPECIAL CONDITION OF EFFECTIVENESS
The Government will appoint a consultant acceptable to the Bank
to assist in carrying out the program of restructuring the Tea Development
Authority.



- 75                        ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
MAURITIUS - SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
INDUSTRIAL POLICY REVIEW
1.        Government has agreed to eliminate the current discretionary
system of protection via import licensing, by shifting to a generalized,
time-phased program of declining tariffs. It has also agreed to examine
the Certificate schemes and to modify them to make them more effective and
compatible with the aims of the structural adjustment program.
2.        Government has already undertaken to stop giving quantitative
import restrictions to protect domestic producers except in exceptional
cases. The precise nature of the policy changes to follow will be
identified by a major Industrial Policy Review (IPR) already launched, to
be completed by June 1984.
3.        Establishing an appropriate program of declining tariffs would be
much easier if Mauritius had made the study expected under SAL-I.
Circumstances prevented this, however, and now an intensive, accelerated
study is necessary. Only the small number of enterprises to be examined
makes this feasible. The timetable is as follows.
4.        Prior to negotiation of SAL-II in May 1983, government created a
high-ranking Industrial Policy Review Committee of senior individuals from
public and private sectors. This IPR Committee is responsible for
supervising and making use of studies carried out by an IPR Working Group.
5.        The IPR Working Group consists of three highly qualified
government economists drawn from the Ministries of Industry & Commerce,
Finance, and Planning; three local assistants selected from outside the
civil service; and foreign consultants.
6.        Between the time of SAL-II negotiation and Board presentation,
Government will have completed its collection and organization of
statistics, made some preliminary computations, and contracted for foreign
consultant service to begin by June. By the end of calendar 1983 an IPR
Interim Report must be completed. IBRD staff would make use of this Report
during review of country performance prior to release of the SAL-II second
tranche.
7.        Finally, by June 1984 the Final Report of the IPR Committee must
be completed. IBRD staff would make use of this report for purposes of
SAL-II performance evaluation and to prepare for a possible SAL-III
operation.



ANNEX V
-76 -                         Page 2 of 3
8.        IPR expenses would be met in part from a sum of US$300,000
earmarked in the Bank's sixth loan to the Development Bank of Mauritius
(Loan 2164 approved June 1, 1982, for US$6 million). The Bank's "INCA
unit (Incentives and Comparative Advantage) in the Industry Department
participated in the SAL-II appraisal and will provide continuing advice
concerning methodology, computer programs, and selection of consultants.
9.        Based on studies completed to date, there are about 40
enterprises in Mauritius which are currently enjoying trade protection
through the device of import licensing.  Two of these firms produce
multiple products and 38 of them are single-product companies. Most of the
products are items of final consumption and up to 80 percent of the
domestic market is reserved for these companies by limiting the volume of
imports to 20 percent of market.
11.       Work is in progress to identify each company by an appropriate
ISIC (International Standard Industrial Classification) code and each
product by its BTN (Brussels Tariff Nomenclature) or SITC (Standard
International Trade Classification) code. Similarly, production and trade
data are being collected for other domestic firms and products not subject
to quantitative import protection.
12.       Production data are to be obtained in part from unpublished files
at the Central Statistical Office in Rose Hill.  These data have to be
handled with great care, due to confidentiality rules. In a small economy
there is often only one enterprise producing an item, and to publish
item-specific data may reveal privileged information about the company.
13.       It is expected that the IPR will focus heavily during the early
months on the products and companies that are subject to protection via
import licensing, and also on simplification of existing drawback
procedures. The Interim Report due at the end of calendar 1983 will
contain recommendations for orderly removal of the quantitative
restrictions and for improvement of drawback. The Final Report will convey
full results of the quantitative analysis of protection/incentives and
recommend the tariff regime best suited to the needs of Mauritius. The
objective is to replace the quantitative restrictions by ad valorem
tariffs, and subsequently to lower those tariffs in a gradual fashion until
effective protection levels are acceptable.
14.       Incentives are given to certain export enterprises and
import-substituting enterprises through the Certificate schemes based
largely on income tax concessions. The IPR will examine those schemes and
make suggestions for improvement. The existing procedures appear to be
too sharply dichotomized, in that free entry of imported inputs needed to
produce exports is limited to companies that sell all (or nearly all) their
output abroad. The period of tax concession may also be unnecessarily
generous.



ANNEX V
- 77-                            Page 3 of 3
15.       Despite the obvious link between manufacturing investment in
Mauritius (by Mauritians and by foreigners) and exports, a good case can be
made to distinguish between the two when granting incentives. Investment
incentives should be tailored to provide only enough encouragement to
overcome investor timidity. Export incentives should be built into the
economic system in such a way that any firm, larze or small, domestic or
allied with foreign ownership, is encouraged to try to sell goods abroad.
This can be done by reforming the incentive system to achieve neutrality as
between exporting and import-substituting activities. Government can then
provide additional stimulus by promotingexports, helping firms become more
efficient by training managers and workers, etc. Highly specific export
subsidies have to be ruled out, since they might attract retaliation from
importing countries.
16.       There is no good reason why import-substituting companies should
not export, nor why "EPZ" firms should not sell a portion of output to the
local market. Moreover, local companies should be encouraged to make and
sell inputs needed by exporting firms. That is, both "direct" and
"indirect" exports are valuable, as is efficient import substitution.
17.       Bank staff members working on the SAL-II operation have
emphasized to Government that progress on the IPR will be monitored very
closely, and that actionable policy recommendations are expected.
Unacceptable delays would jeopardize release of the second tranche of
funds. Government understands all this, and has agreed to go forward with
the IPR in a vigorous manner.



- 78 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 4
MAURITIUS - SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Changing the Tax Structure
1. At the Bank's suggestion, government asked the International Monetary
Fund for technical assistance. The Fund responded promptly, dispatching a
senior official from its Fiscal Affairs Department and an expert consultant
to Mauritius. The findings of these experts, given to government in
February 1983, confirmed the earlier findings of the Bank. The existing
company tax structure was judged to be inappropriate, in that it (a)
encourages distribution of earnings, (b) discourages investment, and (c)
produces unacceptable debt/equity ratios and balance sheets. The existing
tax distinction between "public" and private companies was also found to be
inappropriate.
2.         In an aide memoire left with government in November 1982, the
Bank preappraisal team had pointed out that a new business tax rate of
about 45 percent (for public and private firms alike) on profit before
dividends might be about right. The team had also suggested that the top
marginal personal rate of tax (70 percent) should be lowered, and that a
portion of company dividends should be withheld at the source as partial
payment of shareholder income tax obligations. It had been asserted that
by doing all these things, government could accomplish a desirable
structural change without incurring any significant loss of tax revenue.
3.         During their February 1983 mission, the IMF experts reviewed
various tax methods, including the "separate entity" approach suggested by
the Bank team, a "partial imputation" method wherein shareholders would be
given partial tax credit for taxes paid by companies, and others, and
suggested that perhaps the most interesting for Mauritius would be a
"modified split-rate" method.  They observed that while any change in
taxation could be expected to take time, give rise to transitional
problems, and provoke controversy, modifying the existing split-rate system
might be easier than introducing a totally new approach.
4.         Thus, Mauritius might consider changing the existing tax rates of
(a) 0 percent on distributed earnings and 55/66 percent on retained
earnings to (a') 22.5 percent and (b') 45 percent. This could be
accomplished simply by ruling that in future only half of company dividends
would qualify for the zero rate. If government would eliminate the
distinction between public and private companies and impose a flat rate of
60 percent on retained earnings, tax neutrality would be achieved. That
is, a company paying out 40 percent of its gross profit to shareholders
would incur a business tax of Rs 36, whether computed as 60 percent of Rs
60 or as 45 percent of Rs 80.
5.         The IMF fiscal experts also supported the Bank team's
recommendation to introduce a dividend withholding tax, and suggested a
30-percent tax rate to be phased in over two or three years. Withholding
would improve the certainty of tax collection and speed up that collection,
both beneficial to the government's finances.



- 79 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
6.         The fiscal experts also outlined additional steps that could be
considered. Estimates were made of the potential revenue loss that would
occur if the top 70-percent tax rate were to be eliminated (about three
percent of the total personal income tax collected in FY1981/82), and it
was suggested that the bottom 5-percent rate might also be considered for
elimination.
7.         Since July 1980 individual taxpayers in Mauritius have paid a
third of the first Rs 90,000 of chargeable income as tax and 70 percent of
income thereafter; i.e., anyone earning more than about US$8,200 faces a
very heavy tax burden. The schedule is as follows: 5 percent tax on the
first Rs 6,000 of chargeable income; 10 percent on the next Rs 6,000; 20
percent on the next Rs 18,000; 30 percent on the next Rs 20,000; 40 percent
on the next Rs 20,000; 50 percent on the next Rs 10,000; 60 percent on the
next Rs 10,000; and 70 percent on the remainder. Thus, the tax on a
chargeable income of Rs 90,000 comes to Rs 29,500 or 33 percent of the
income.
8.         Government subsequently decided to accept several of the
recommendations made by the IMF experts, including (a) unification of the
tax rate applicable to public and private companies, (b) limitation of
tax-free distributed earnings to half the pay-out; (c) elimination of the
bottom 5 percent and top 70 percent tax rates on personal income; and (d)
adoption of a 30-percent rate withholding tax on dividends, at the company
source. It is expected that the modifications will become effective for
the 1984/85 tax year, although the withholding tax rate will not reach 30
percent until two years later.
9.         To estimate the impact of the tax reform on company practice and
on tax revenues, it is helpful to know what the companies have been doing
in the past. The fiscal experts found that during the five fiscal years
ending June 1982, all companies on the island paid out an average of 43
percent of gross profits as dividends. Provisional figures for the most
recent fiscal year, FY1981/82, indicated a pre-tax pay-out of only 36
percent, however, so 40 percent was taken as a plausible round number.
Note that a 40-percent share of gross profit is equivalent to a 62.5 per-
cent share of net profit after tax.
10.       Disaggregated data for the last three fiscal years were available
for four categories of companies: Agriculture, Manufacturing, Wholesale &
Retail Trade, and Financial. The average pre-tax pay-out ratio for
Manufacturing during this three-year period was 55 percent, considerably
higher than for all companies. This rate is equivalent to about 70 percent
on an after-tax basis. In fact, if one removes the provisional FY1981/82
figures from the reckoning, the pre-tax ratio jumps to 73 percent --
equivalent to 87 percent, after-tax. Manufacturing dividend pay-out ratios
of 70 to 87 percent on an after-tax basis can only be characterized as
very high. Thus, the evidence collected by the IMF experts definitely
confirmed the findings of the earlier Bank team that manufacturing firms in
Mauritius were paying out an abnormally high share of their earnings.
11.       Under the existing system, each Rupee of gross profit that is
distributed to shareholders is free of business income tax but becomes
subject to a 70-percent top marginal rate of personal income tax. Each



- 80 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 4
Rupee of gross profit that is retained in the company is subject to a
business income tax of 60 percent (ignoring the 55/66 percent
distinction). Thus, for a company that wishes to distribute 40 percent of
its gross profit, the business tax liability comes to Rs 36.
12.       Under the modified split-rate system, each Rupee of gross profit
that is distributed will be subject to a business income tax of 22.5
percent and thereafter a 60-percent top marginal rate of personal income
tax. Each Rupee of gross profit retained in the company will be subject to
a business income tax of 45 percent. Thus, maintaining a 40-percent payout
of gross profit, the business tax liability will be Rs 36 (calculated as
.225 of Rs 40 + .45 of Rs 60).  The business tax obligation is the same in
both cases.
13.       If the top personal tax rate of 70 percent were maintained, both
the business and personal tax oblization arising from the above two systems
would be identical, viz., Rs 36 and Rs 28 (i.e., 70 percent of Rs 40).
Lowering the top personal rate to 60 percent means that the modified system
would generate Rs 4 rupees less, other things equal.
14.       Under the existing system, a Rupee of profit retained costs the
company Rs 0.60 in tax. A Rupee of distributed profit costs the company
nothing, although the shareholder should pay a personal income tax of Rs.
0.70. The tax advantage of retaining profit in the company is only
Rs 0.10, and if shareholders fail to report some or all of their dividend
income there may be no advantage at all.
15.       Under the new system, a Rupee of profit retained will cost the
company Rs 0.45 in tax.  A Rupee of distributed profit will cost the
company Rs 0.225 in tax, and the shareholder will pay 60 percent of Rs
0.775 or Rs 0.465. The tax advantage of retaining profit in the company
rises to (Rs 0.225 + Rs 0.465 =) Rs 0.69 minus Rs 0.45 or Rs 0.24.
Avoidance of the personal income tax will be very difficult, moreover,
since a portion of the dividends will be withheld at the source and paid
over to the tax authorities. For taxpayers in the highest income bracket,
60 percent, half would be deducted at source and the other half would be
payable at the time of filing the annual tax return.
16.        One can hold the tax rate applicable to personal dividend income
at 70 percent in order to highlight the change in incentive to retain or
pay out profits. With the new system in place, a company attempting to
distribute Rs 40 of a gross profit of Rs 100 will pay a business tax of Rs
36. Shareholders will pay a tax of Rs 21.70 and get to keep Rs 9.30 after
tax.  If the company now distributes only Rs 39, its tax obligation rises
to Rs 36.225. Government loses Rs 0.5425 in personal income tax, however,
for a total net loss of Rs 0.3175. The shareholders forego Rs 0.2325 of
after-tax dividend income. Thus, government pays for 41 percent and
shareholders 59 percent of the effective increase of Rs 0.775 in company
retained earnings.  With a top personal tax rate of 60 percent, government
pays for 60 percent and shareholders 40 percent of the Rs. 0.775 gain in
retained earnings.
17.         It is more correct, of course, to say that shareholders simply
forego the receipt of Rs 0.31 after-tax dividend income in order to



- 81 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
increase their company's retained profit by Rs 0.775. That should be an
attractive proposition to many shareholders, especially since there is no
capital gains tax in Mauritius.
18.         Government also wins.  It gives up Rs 0.465 of tax receipts
today for each Rs 0.775 increase in retained earnings, but stands to
collect more tax revenue over time because (a) companies borrow less money
to maintain the same volume of business and therefore have lower interest
deductions and/or (b) companies borrow the same amount but raise their
volume and gross profit.
19.       Given the difficulty of anticipating the full reaction of
companies and shareholders to the new tax system, a few years of experience
will be needed in order to see whether the change has indeed provided
sufficient incentive for companies to retain a higher proportion of their
earnings. If further stimulus appears necessary, government can simply
rule that only 25 percent, rather than half, of distributed earnings will
qualify for the implicit zero tax rate. Finally, at the limit government
can simply charge the same 45-percent rate of tax on both distributed and
undistributed earnings. If and when this occurs, Mauritius would have a
"classical" or "separate-entity" system.
20.       Lastly, one cannot overlook the positive impact of reducing
nominal tax rates to 45 percent and 60 percent (marginal) from the existing
levels of 55/66 and 70 percent. Investor perceptions should be improved,
since 45 and 60 percent rates are in line with those found in many other
countries. Thus, in addition to strengthening company balance sheets and
improving firms' ability to borrow, the tax reform may enhance Mauritius'
image as a place to invest money.



- 82 -
ANNEX VII
page 1 of 5
RESTRUCTURING THE TEA DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
I - Background
1.        Tea Planting in Mauritius started in the late 19th century
supported by a Government experimental station established in 1895 and by
1920 about 310 arpents had been planted. A lull followed due to escalating
labor costs in the post World War I period but planting was later resumed
and by 1950 there were 2.000 arpents under tea comprising factory estates
and small private planters. In 1955, Government initiated a program to
encourage further expansion providing crown land leaseholds and subsidies
to a group of fifteen medium size farmers (called "project planters")
whereby about 3,800 arpents were planted by 1970. A tea division in the
Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) was created in 1964 to assist in the
implementation of this project.
2.        By 1968 Government's targets were in excess of the MoA Division's
capacity and Government prepared a plan in 1969 for a Phase II smallholder
program and looked to the Bank for finance. At this time there were 8,100
arpents under tea comprising 1700 arpents with "project planters", 1200
arpents with cooperative smallholders, 2,200 arpents immature tea
(maintained by MoA Tea Division) and 3,000 arpents with six private factory
estates and hundreds of small private planters. The Government program at
the time of Bank appraisal was to plant a further 13,000 arpents of tea on
crown land between 1971-76 starting with a three-year Project to be
financed by the Bank.
3.        The Project was appraised in March 1971 under which a parastatal
organisation (Tea Development Authority (TDA)) was to be established,
5600 arpents tea were to be planted to be leased to 3,730 smallholders
after a 42 month training period during which they would work for TDA as
field labourers and two factories would be constructed to process the green
leaf.  TDA would be responsible for project implementation and leasing the
plots to the trainee smallholders. The Project which became effective on
July 2, 1971 was scheduled for completion by June 1977 at a total cost of
US$ 7 million of which US$ 5.2 million would be financed by IDA Credit
239-MAS.
4.        Project implementation encountered serious difficulties and
delays due to shortcomings in project design, deterioration of economic
situation of tea industry, increase in daily wages coupled with low output
and labor disorders, poor accounting procedures and generally poor
management of TDA which brought about political and bureaucratic
interference.  As a result there was a cost overrun of 300%, the field
achievement was only 2,572 arpents instead of 5,600 arpents, only one
factory was built and even these lower achievements were not completed
until March 1979. Efforts were made to improve matters throughout 1979 and
early 1980 but the project was finally closed in July 1980. The



- 83 -
ANNEX VII
page 2 of 5
Government's commitment to construct roads was only partly achieved (25
km. our of 60 km.) and the construction of tea villages was never
commenced.
5.          At completion of the reduced project level the actual yields per
arpent were and still are about 25% of appraisal targets. South Africa,
which purchased a large quantity of Mauritius tea at a premium, withdrew
its support and the trainees were unwilling to give up their secure
positions with TDA and take over tea plots. A considerable number of MoA
workers were now on TDA payroll and a large number of casual workers had
been made permanent employees. The "project planters" referred to in
paragraph 1 had given back their lands, due to high labor costs, and TDA
was faced with the problem of rehabilitating abandoned tea and endeavour-
ing to run the whole enterprise on an estate basis. With low yields, an
excessive, costly, indisciplined and low productive labor force and low tea
prices in the international market, the inevitable result was a massive
drain on Government resources amounting to about Rs 60 million per annum.
6          Government set up the Pillay Commission in 1980 to investigate
TDA's management, labor and financial problems and propose ways and means
of solving them. That commission proposed inter alia the restructuring of
management, the introduction of accounting and cost control systems, the
running of 840A of TDA tea as a "model" estate which would be mechaniseld
to reduce labor, abandoning unproductive tea areas, merely maintaining the
balance with the minimum of inputs to cut costs and redploying as much
excess labor and staff as possible.
7.        The overall achievement of these recommendations has been
disappointing for numerous reasons although MoA has managed to redeploy
since December 1979 a labor force of 1318 (including retirements, deaths
and wastage) and the labor force of TDA has dropped by 235 due to general
wastage.  The problem of excess labor, low yields, and high operational
costs still remains and the new Government which came into office in 1982
has again addressed the problem because it fully appreciates that
Government cannot continue to subsidise TDA's operations to the tune of Rs
60 million per annum. Because of the social and political implications the
task is by no means an easy one but it is encouraging that Government is
committed to make a meaningful effort.
The Program for Restructuring
8.        Government has decided to move away, from the concept of an
estate (and mechanical plucking) and to restructure TDA along the lines of
smallholder development as contained in the original Bank Project. The MoA
prepared the White Paper on January 10, 1983 setting out its proposals
which can be summarized as follows:



- 84 -
ANNEX VII
page 3 of 5
(a) Land available for conversion to Smallholders
9.         A total ara of 2895 arpents is available for leasing comprising
2206 arpents ready now, 484 arpents which will be available after
rehabilitation and 205 arpents of Bee Manique area which has been returned
to TDA from Nouvelle France. The schedule of the surfaces available is
given below :
Year 1  - July - October 1983    1439 arpents
Year 2                     1984      750 arpents
Year 3                      1985     706 arpents
(b) Redeployment of Redundant Staff
10.       The number of employees available from TDA trainees who have been
trained in tea on the understanding that they would take over plots is
614. Above this, there are 533 pluckers who are not permanent/pensionable
employees (PPE) making a total of 1,147 employees who should be persuaded
to take over plots. As an inducement it is the opinion of the mission and
TDA that an area of about 2 arpents should be offered to each potential
smallholder which would absorb 1,448 smallholders. The balance 301
smallholders could be found either from other TDA staff who will have to be
redeployed and are willing to become smallholders or from people outside
TDA. There are already some 200 people who have applied for plots. As
some people may not wish two arpents, 1,500 smallholders are expected to
take over plots at the rate of 500 per year.
(c)  Revised Management Organisation
11.       The Management of TDA has been reorganized.  Some of the senior
staff are being reassigned but they do retain their old titles and continue
to benefit from their salaries and the perks associated with the titles. A
copy of the revised structure is shown in Appendix II.
12.       Government has indicated that it will appoint an expatriate
consultant acceptable to the Bank for up to three years to concentrate on
the technical aspects of the smallholders taking over plots, introducing
the new leaf collection proposals and surpervising the factory extension
program.  He would also advise on manufacture in the factories and endeavor
to find ways and means to reduce the cost of production while at the same
time improving the standard of made tea. The Bank has agreed to finance
the cost of this consultancy work from the proposed Technical Assistance
Loan and until it is approved from the P.P.F. It is essential that the
Consultantts contract be signed before August 1, 1983 if the factory
extension program, particularly at Belle Rive is to be completed in time to
deal with the enhanced crops.



- 85 -
ANNEX VII
page 4 of 5
(d) Factory Extensions Required
13.       With the increase yield  expected from the smallholder activities
crops will rise beyond the present capacities of Belle Rive and Chartreuse
Factories. It was always anticipated that Belle Rive Factory capacity
would be enlarged because under the Bank Project only the first phase of
the factory construction was to be implemented. Chartreuse Factory
originally belonged to a co-operative and was purchased by Government
during the implementation of the Bank Project instead of constructing the
second factory envisaged in that Project.
The timing and costs of the extensions are
By October 1983                -   Double the withering capacity of
Belle Rive Factory from 20,000
to 40,000 kg. green leaf per day
(cost Rs 2,532,000)
By October 1983                -   Increase cutting machinery capa-
city of Chartreuse Factory (cost
Rs 1,000,000).
July - December 1983           -   Construct additional accommoda-
tion for estate accounting and
personnel staff who will be
moved from headquarters to the
estate (cost Rs 500,000)
July - December 1983            -   Construct garage space for
estate vehicles to be parked in
the factory compounds (cost -
Rs 200,000)
July 1983 - June 1984          -   Set up tractor/trailer  trans-
port system and field weighment
system (cost - Rs 1,867,000)
April 1984 - October 1984    -   Install drying machinery at
Chartreuse Factory to increase
manufacturing capacity
(Rs 1,000,000)
October 1983 - October 1984  -   Construct new  withering hall to
double Chartreuse Factory
withering capacity from 50,000
to 100,000 kg green leaf per day
(Cost - Rs 6,522,000).
(Details of the investment program are given in Appendix II).



- 86 -                         ANNEX VII
page 5 of 5
III - SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE REORGANISATION
14.       As mentioned in paragraph 10 the redeployment of staff into
smallholders will be phased over a period of three years and is expected to
be completed by December of the fiscal year 1985/86. During this period,
the Belle Rive and Chartreuse Factories will be expanded to cope with the
rise in crop and the improved green leaf collection organisation will be
set up. All these operations will require careful planning while at the
same time the existing TDA operations must continue. Government has
therefore appointed a new Executive Chairman to control the existing opera-
tions and to ensure that the administrative problems pertaining to the
redeployment of labor and staff are properly handled.
15.       Detailed cost estimates of the proposed program for restructuring
TDA are given in Appendix III. It appears that although the deficit will
only be marginally reduced export earnings from tea will nearly double
between 1983 and 1986 as well as the income accruing to smallholders.
IV - FUTURE OF THE TEA INDUSTRY
16.       While the structure of TDA is being specifically addressed by
this proposal, the problem of Mauritius tea in general has to be
addressed. Governments support to the tea sub-sector has been limited to
the public sector (TDA and Nouvelle France), but the private sector which
processes 30% of the Island's tea has complained for some years that due to
rising costs and the present formula, whereby 66% of the sale proceeds is
allocated to leaf suppliers and only 34% to the manufacturers, the sector
is incurring losses which cannot be borne any longer. Therefore,
Government is setting up a Study Group under the chairmanship of the former
Chief Agricultural Officer comprising representatives of the Ministries of
Finance, Agriculture and Economic Planning, TDA,, and the Tea Board. The
terms of reference are:
(a) to examine in depth the state of the tea industry with
particular regard to cost of production, quality of green
leaf and of made tea, investment requirements of the
industry, and marketing;
(b)  to investigate the feasibility and advisability of
mechanization of certain of the field activities, taking
into account the employment aspect;
(c) to recommend a plan of action for the rehabilitation of the
tea industry with special regard to its long-term economic
and financial viability.
17.       The mission after discussion with the Government suggested how
the terms of reference should be strengthened and made more specific to
deal more effectively with the problems facing the tea industry. It was
also suggested that Government may wish to make use of consultants under
the Technical Assistance Loan to assist the Study Group in its work.



I B R D 3209R PPA
DECEMBER 1981
MAUR IT I US                                                    ,6TAAObA/B
TrHES   ROf DS                                   RoA
OTHER MAIN ROADS                                              
-            010   U ROAD
--       BEUILT UP AREAS                                               LOUIS
SUGAR CASE(                                                               k   
LANDS SNODER TOG, TOSITIAS  .ASUORS 055 <s   /
.          FOREST fS SCRUS.AND                                          ,                                        Rveed  
AUTITUDESS-E 5000 FOSERTOSrr                                        R         u       --- -       
oifrtt OCRt/    Ploire LO@L EU  I                                                      
|/ MOIRE P1ie. H\\
\  / . . 36 % Ros6,>  -AN7 9 /          -'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<
/fJmtbu                         .-}                                          *X-s
b    >-a   J  fr S j~~~~~~~:,
W T C . m 
\   /z    ree~~~ ~M><gk   -  /  .   aSv          5   w//              ot,         , ~~~~F-rnY        
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7                                                              t0                            f.i ../X ....e r. n;
, t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-d LLAC te                                                  M  ,  _     Vl  OE 
) t  f    n                                           ant tez.rorvor nz emsorsso>nr~~~~~~~~~~d



