L OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 2361 MAS
DOCU M ENTS
Loan Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
MAURITIUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                             , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2361 MAS
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      Ac            c)_O      , 1983, between
MAURITIUS (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated Septem-
ber 29, 1983, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve a structural adjust-
ment of the Borrower's economy, declaring the Borrower's commit-
ment to the execution of that program, and requesting assistance
from the Bank in the financing of urgent imports to be made
during the execution of such program; and
(B) on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of such program to provide assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter pro-
vided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"The term 'Project' means the activities that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provi-
sions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.2
(1975);
(b) "Rs" and "Rupee" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(c) "Central Bank" means the Bank of Mauritius established
and operating pursuant to the Bank of Mauritius Ordinance, 1966,
as amended from time to time; and
(d) "Project Account" means the account to be established
and operated pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty
million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount c    he Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.05 and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods described
as so eligible in such Schedule.
Section 2.03. Fr,cept as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equi-
valent to ninety-nine thousand seven hundred fifty-one dollars
($99,751). The fee shall be payable in such currency or curren-
cies as the Bank shall specify. On or promptly after the Effec-
tive Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw


﻿- 3 -
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required for
the full payment of the fee in the currency or currencies speci-
fied for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time -to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one-half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii) "Qualified Borrowings" means (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(c) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) the Central Bank is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower shall entrust the Central Bank with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be fur-
nished to the Bank in support of such applications; applications
for reimbursement shall to the extent practicable be consolidated
so as to apply for reimbursement of aggregate amounts of not less
than $25,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall open an account (the
Project Account) at the Central Bank and shall, upon each with-
drawal from the Loan Account, deposit in said account in accor-
dance with its usual financial procedures the equivalent in
Rupees of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan
Account (such equivalent to be determined as of the respective
date of such withdrawal). The amounts so deposited in the Project
Account shall be used exclusively to finance capital expenditures
included in the Borrower's public sector investment program.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by June 30,
1982, or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree,
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the utilization of the amounts deposited in the Project
Account pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all such action
including the expeditious granting of import licenses as shall be
necessary or convenient to facilitate the timely importation of
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that adequate provi-
sion will be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be


﻿- 5 -
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or
repair such goods.
Section 3.04. Upon the award of any contract for goods cost-
ing the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the con-
tract was awarded and the contract price.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the program for structural
adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and the
measures specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views but not more often
than once every six months, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved
in carrying out said program, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
Section 3.06. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that an event has
occurred which shall make it improbable that the program for
structural adjustment or a significant part of the program for
structural adjustment referred to in the Preamble to this Agree-
ment will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that the Borrower has appointed a consultant acceptable to
the Bank to assist in carrying out the program of restructuring
the Tea Development Authority.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. The date     A         /9, I7'A     , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement the Minister responsible for finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFIN                          4249 EXTERN IW
Port louis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (WUT) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
MAURITIUS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The reasonable cost of importation of any goods into the
territory of the Borrower may be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, except that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-
groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
668         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
-          971.0            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;


﻿- 10 -
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(d) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof;
(e) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(f) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(g) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
(h) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equiva-
lent to $4,000,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs prior to
the satisfaction of the conditions referred to in paragraph 2
below, and an additional $4,000,000 thereafter.
2.   vio withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have reached the equivalent of $20,000,000, unless the Bank shall
be satisfied, after an e-.change of views as described in Section
3.05 of this Agreement, ith the progress achieved by the Bor-
rower in the carrying or   of the program for structural adjust-
ment referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and in parti-
cular with the measures described in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
3.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eli-
gible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
Beginning April 1, 1988
Through   April 1, 2000                     1,540,000
Oun October 1, 2000                              1,500,000
*    The figures In this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Se!ctioa 3-C4.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time or Prepayment                          Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the date
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
before maturity                              .18
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     .35
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              .65
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                              .88
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             1.00


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each, shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines and
the substitution therefor of the following:
"1.2 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 3.1) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
prequalification or to bid; such advertisements should be
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of
the fcllowing forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.9 of the
Guidelines of the following:
"As an alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 14 -
(c) By the deletion of sub-paragraphs (a) and (d) of para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelines and the substitution for sub-para-
graph (a) of the following:
"(a) Payments under the contract will be made in the
currency in which the price has been stated in the success-
ful bid."
(d) By the deletion of the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
3.8 of the Guidelines and the substitution therefor of the fol-
lowing:
"Customs duties and import taxes should be excluded for
the purpose of comparison among bids for the supply of goods."
(e) By the deletion of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts and purchase orders for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $2,000,000 each shall be awarded on
the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser
of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
4.   With respect to each contract or purchase order referred to
in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank may rea-
sonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of
such contract or purchase order.
5.   The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of a con-
tract or the documentation received, as the case may be, was not
consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Tranche Release
The measures to be specifically included in the review pro-
vided for in paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement are as
follows:
1.   The Borrower's program of action for its sugar industry
and for agricultural diversification;
2.   the final report concerning the Borrower's Review of
Industrial Policy;
3.   an evaluation of the Borrower's fiscal performance;
4.   the Borrower's carrying out of the Project described in
the Loan Agreement (Technical Assistance Project) of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank;
5.   the interim report of the Borrower's study of the
mechanism for minimum wage negotiations; and
6.   the Borrower's program to replace quantitative restric-
tions on imports by a generalized time-phased system of declining
tariffs, including criteria for maintaining such import restric-
tions in exceptional cases.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 2 0      day of _'_      %
FOR SECRETARY


