RESTRICTED
lieport No.   PU-39a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTIERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS EXPANSION PROGRAM
OF THE
PERUSAHAAN UMUM TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERUMTEL)
INDONESIA
June 1, 1970
Public Utilities Projects Department



CUR;RENCY 3QUIVALENTS                              FISCAL YEAR - PERWITEL
J9f__                                            January 1 to December 31
TUS ;l           = Rupiiah (Rp) 326
Dun4  1          - = US$0.003
Runiah J,000,000 = US$3,067
1970
US¢1             = FLupiah (Rp) 378
L,ipiah 1        = US$0.003
Rupiah 1,000,000 = USW2,645
(See footnote 1 page 19)



INDONiESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TEIECOMMUbNICATIONS EXPANSION PROGRAM
OF THE
PERUSAHAANJ UMUM TELEKOMUN\TIKASI (PERUMTEL)
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY ANID CONCLUSIONS                                       i-ii
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                   1
2. TELECO01MUNICATIONS SECTOR                                      2
General                                                        2
Operating Entity                                               3
Management and Organization                              3
Staff                                                    h
Training                                                 4
Organizational Changes and Assistance                    5
Finances - General                                       5
Audit                                                    6
Present Financial Position                               6
Past Earnings                                            8
Tariffs                                                  9
3. EXISTING TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES                         10
Local Telephone Service                                       10
Long Distance Service                                         10
Telegraph Service                                             11
International Facilities                                      11
4. THE PROGRAM AND PROJECT                                        13
Program                                                       13
Project                                                       13
Costs of the Project                                          15
Procurement and Disbursement                                  16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia
in November/December 1969 wihich was composed of Messrs. C. R. Dickenson,
M. DeLima, and J. M. Vance of the Bank.



T_ble of Contents (Cont.d)
5. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT                                  17
6. FUTURE FINANCES                                               19
Financing Plan                                               19
FTuture Operating Results                                    21
Future 'irnancial Position                                   21
7 . RECOi'E04DATIOVIS                                            23



List of Annexes
1.. Salient Points in the Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation (ITT)
2. Organization chart for PERUITrfEL
3.  Organization chart for PERUMTEL - Field
1[. i.Ianporcer and Training
5.  Presidential Decree No. 17 of 1967 - Activities of the Perum (public
corporation)
6.  Ianagement Consultants' Draft Terms of Reference
7.  Job Description:  Financial Officer/Adviser
8.  Job Description:  Operations and Traffic Procedures Adviser
9.  Job Description:  Organization, Administration and Personnel Adviser
10.  Summary of Tariffs
11. Pro Forma Balance Sheet - 1968-1973 (Page 1)
Notes and Assumptions on the Pro Forma Balance Sheet (Pages 2 & 3)
12.  Pro Forma Statement of Income - 1968-1973 (Page 1)
Notes and Assumptions on the Pro Forma Statement of Income (Pages 2 & 3)
Analysis of Additional Subscriber Connections and Installation Fees
Collected - 1970-1973 (Table 1)
13. Pro Forma Sources and Applications of Funds - 1970-1973
14. Telephone Density Comparisons - Indonesia and Adjoining Countries
15. Basic Data as at December 1969 and for 1969-1973 Development Program
16.  Number of Exchange Line Units - Main Subscriber Lines and Extension
Lines in the Various Islands of Indonesia as on December 31, 1968
17.  Growth in Exchange Capacity, Connected Subscribers and Stations, and
Liktely Growth in Exchange Capacity
18. Summary of Annual Prograrn Costs - 1969-1973
19. Detailed Provisions Covered in the Project
20. Summary of Annual Disbursements for Project and Program
21. Incremental Financial Rate of Return
IIAP:  Details of the Existing Microwave System, Extensions under Construct-onn,
and Extensions Proposed under the Project



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND TITLES USED IN THE REPORT
Bappenas        - The Indonesian Government organization responsible for
planning matters
DEL             - Direct exchange line
EL              - Extension line
HF              - High frequency (radio) - up to 30 mc
IGGI            - Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia
ITU             - International Telecommunication Union
LU              - Line unit
Perum           - State owned corporation
PERUMTEL        - Perusahaan Umum Telekomunikasi - the State owned corporation
responsible for telecommunications
STD              - Subscriber trunx dialing (long distance dialing)
Telex           - Telegraph exchange service for subscribers
UHF             - Ultra high frequency (radio) - 300-3,000 mc
UNDP             - United Nations Development Program
VF              - Voice frequency - Tone signals used for telegraph or
telephone signals
VHF             - Very high frequency (radio) - 30-300 mc
GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS USED IN THE REPORT
Carrier         - A system of providing a number of circuits over one
telephony         radio link, coaxial cable or pair of wires
Central         - A manual telephone exchange making use of a central
battery           battery for signaling and speaking purposes
exchange
Crossbar        - An automatic telephone exchange switching system
utilizing a connecting matrix of the crossbar type
with common control registers
Distribution    - Access points for redistribution of cable pairs
cabinets &
pillars
Flexibility     - A system of rearranging cable pair distribution without
costly jointing operations
Inter-office    - Cables connecting telephone exchanges which together
cable             form one multi-office network
Local battery   - A manual exchange making use of separate batteries at
each subscriber's premises for speaking purposes
Microwave        - A system of communications using frequencies over 300 mc
and working on a line of sight propagation basis
Multiplexing    - Part of the equipment in a carrier system - see above -
which shifts and stacks the different circuits in the
frequency spectrum appropriate to the particular carrier
system
Telephone        - IDcations where telephone instruments on direct exchange
stations          lines or extensions are fitted
Tropospheric    - A system of radio communication at very high frequency or
scatter           microwave frequencies capable of operating over distances
beyond the line of sight by making use of the dispersion
of radio waves in the troposphere. Such systems are not
subject to interference and distortion common on HF radio
links where ionospheric reflection is involved.



INDOurBSIA
PERUSAT.A '.` Lr11I T E]LEOIU-2JIKASI (PERUITEL)
SMEVIARY AND CONCLUSIONTS
i.        This report appraises a three-year project (1970-1972) forming
part of Perusahaan Umum Telekomunikasi's (PERJiHTEL) on-going five-year
program (1969-1973). This would be the Bank Group's first telecommunications
lendirng operation in Indonesia.
ii.       The Borrower would be the Government of Indonesia which would
make the funds available to PERUMTEL, a State owned corporation operating
the telephone services in Indonesia. The proposed IDA Credit would be
relent to PERUMITEL at 12%o interest per annum for a period of twenty years
including a grace period of four years.
iii.      PERUHTEL faces a number of problems caused by the long period of
neglect of telecommunications development in Indonesia. These include an
inadequate long distance network, the high cost of operating subscribers'
lines (over 50% are still manually operated) and the difficulty of main-
taining equipment which is obsolescent or already at the end of its life.
The Five-Year Development Program of PERaTEL provides mainly for an increase
of about 65,ooo telephone stations; improving long distance communications
by extending the existing Djakarta-Bandung microwave link to Semarang,
Jogjakarta and Surabaya ir. Java, and on to Bali; constructing a microwave
link through Sumatra conrnecting all the important places and linking into
Java; providing a tropo-scatter link between Java and Kalimantan; install-
ing automatic trunk switching centers to provide subscriber dialing of
calls; extending the telex network; and constructing buildings for offices
and training centers. While the program cannot remove all the present
shortcomings, it has picked out the important items which would resolve
some of the major ones. The cost of the program is estimated to be
Rp 30.2 billion (US$81.5 million).
iv.       The project for IDA financing is a self-contained part of the
program and has been selected on account of its high priority. It is
estimated to cost Rp 8.6 billion (US$22.6 million) including a foreign
exchange component of Rp 5.3 billion (USh14.1 million), of which the
Association would provide ap 4.8 billion (US$12.8 rillion). The balance
of the foreign exchange i.e. Rp 0.5 billion (US$1.3 million) will be
provided under bilateral aid. The funds reouired to meet local expendi-
tures will be provided from PERUYiTEL's cash generation and funds of the
Government of Indonesia. The project provides for (a) a trans-Sumatra
microwave system linking into Java; (b) a tropospheric scatter system
between Java and Kalinantan; (c) telex extensions; (d) cables for telephone
distribution networks; and, (e) Subscriber Trunk Dialing (STD) switching,
terminal and operator dialing equipment.
v.        The project will provide a reasonable network to handle the long
distance traffic on a satisfactory basis. An Australian mission has drawn



- ii -
up details of the project. The Government of Indonesia has requested
the Australian Government for the continuance of this mission for three
years more to help in the implementation of the project and the re-
sponse is favorable. With this assistance, PERUMTEL will be able to
carry out the works on the project.
vi.       The incremental rate of return on the project is calculated
to be 16.8%. All items under the credit would be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding.
vii.     PERUIMTEL is seriously deficient in effective management and
controls; an effective accounting system is lacking, and there is a
shortage of trained accounting staff. Staff morale is low and a gen-
eral state of disorganization exists--all stemming from the abnormal
conditions which have existed in Indonesia since World War II.
viii.    In the past PERUMTEL has little more than covered its cash
operating expenses due mainly to poor collections from Government.
With the Government assuring the payment of its bills promptly in the
future and establishing a suitable tariff structure, the tentative
forecasts show that PERUMTEL can become a financially viable enterprise.
ix.      To remedy the above deficiencies, the Government has set up a
Perum (State owned corporation) to run the telecommunications services
on commercial lines and has agreed to retain management consultants--
to be financed under the proposed credit--to examine PERU4TEL's orga-
nization and operation and to recommend introducing the necessary
changes. In addition, three experts inthe fields of organization,
finance and operation would be recruited for a period of three years
by the Government and financed under the Colombo Plan. These experts
will help the administration to make some immediate improvements, to
furnish data to the consultants, and, thereafter, to implement the
recommendations.
x.       During negotiations, agreement was reached on the points
listed under Chapter 7. The project would be suitable for a credit
of US$12.8 million to be repaid over 50 years including a grace period
of 10 years, which would be relent to PERUMTEL on terms indicated at
(ii).



11,DOITES IA
P  USAHAAPT UiiliJ TEEKOIALUTIKASI (PEUEL)
1. IN4TRODUCTIOid
1.01      The Government of Indonesia on September 15, 1969, requested
that the Association help finance a telecommunications development program
for extending and improving the existing telecommunications facilities.
This would be the Bank Groupts first telecommunications lending operation
in Indonesia.
1.02      Perusahaan Umum Telekomunikasi (PERUI¢EL) has drawn up a Five-
Year Development Program (1969-1973) to provide mainly for an increase of
about 65,000 telephones from 197,000 telephones now in use, extension of
the long distance network by installation of microwave links in Java and
Sumatra, extension of the telex network and construction of operating,
administrative and training center buildings, at a cost of Rp 30.2 billion
(US$81.5 million) including a foreign exchange expenditure of US$49.4 million.
The proposed project to be undertaken during fiscal years 1970 to 1972
forms part of the above program and is estimated to cost Rp 8.6 billion
(US$22.6 million), including a foreign exchange expenditure of Rp 5.3 billion
(US$14.1 million). The proposed credit would provide for Rp 4.8 billion
(US$12.8 million) of the foreign exchange requirement. The balance of the
foreign exchange i.e. Rp 0.5 billion (US$1.3 million) will be provided under
bilateral aid. The local expenditures will be met from PERUMTEL's own
resources and funds of the Government of Indonesia.
1.03      The project covers the provision of (i) a trans-Sumatra microwave
system linking into Java (ii) a tropospheric scatter system between Surabaya
in East Java and Bandjarmasin in Kalimantan, (iii) extensions to the telex
network, (iv) cables to meet part of the immediate requirements for extension
of the telephone distribution networks, and (v) Subscriber Trunk Dialing
(STD) switching, terminal and operator dialing equipment.
1.04      The Government of Indonesia would be the Borrower.  The Government
would make the funds available to PERUNTEL, a State owned corporation charged
with providing and operating the domestic and international telecommunica-
tions services in Indonesia as a loan. The funds would be relent to PERUNTEL
at 12% interest per annum for a period of twenty years including a grace
period of four years.
1.05      This report is based on  information furnished by PERUMTEL and
on the findings of a mission that visited Indonesia in November/December
1969 to appraise the telecomamunications development program and the
operations of PERUI4TEL. The mission was comprised of Messrs. C. R. Dickensor,
M. DeLima, and J. M. Vance of the Bank.



2. TELECO MURICATIONS SECTOR
General
2.01      Indonesia, situated between the Pacific and Indian Oceans, is an
archipelago nation of more than 6,000 named islands (960 inhabited) ex-
tending for some 4,800 km from the northern tip of Sumatra to West Irian.
Tne total area of the country is 1,900,000 km * Its population totals some
115 million, with 85% of the people concentrated on Sumatra and Java. Java,
with 76 million people, is one of the most densely populated areas in
the world. Sumatra has 19 million people. The other inhabited islands are
sparsely populated.
2.02      Development of surface transportation in Indonesia's long chain
of islands has been difficult and costly, due to the many sea crossings
and the mountainous, sometimes swampy terrain. Many parts of the country
are inaccessible even by air. Transportation of goods and people is difficult,
and therefore telecommunications become particularly valuable in maintaining
coordination between business centers and markets.
2.03      Indonesia's gross domestic product is estimated to be US$9.2
billion, with a per capita income of US$80. The economy of the country is
largely based on agriculture, oil production, rubber and mining. The major
export items are petroleum and by-products (US$272 million), rubber (US$221
million), agricultural products (US$150 million), minerals (US$42 million),
and forest produce and lumber (US$6 million).
2.04      The island of Sumatra is rich in forest produce, rubber, petroleum
and minerals, and contributes 60% of Indonesia's total exports. Kalimantan
exports oil, mineral and forest produce and has a vast potential for develop-
ment. Djakarta in Java is the administrative and business center of Indo-
nesia. The development of long distance communications within Sumatra, from
Sumatra to Java, and from Kalimantan to Java, is of great importance to the
economy of the country and is of high priority.
2.05      Indonesia has faced many problems in attempting to provide ade-
quate telecommunications service. Telecommunications development came to
a standstill during World War II. Further setbacks were experienced during
the independence movement and subsequent political changes, resulting in
an obsolete and ill-maintained network and a disorganized staff. Except
for a small amount of development between 1961 and 1965, very little ex-
pansion and rehabilitation has taken place.  The present development prograr
is designed to provide, within the resources available and on a priority
basis, the required expansion and rehabilitation of the network.



-3-
Operating Entity
Management and Organization
2.06      Telecommunications were run under the Dutch as a public service
under the "Telegraph and Telephone Regulations" issued in 1876. After the
transfer of sovereignty to the Republic of Indonesia in 1949, these regula-
tioris were continued in force up to 1960. In that year the enactment of
Government Law Ao. 19 changed the status of the organization to "Perusahaan
Niegara Postal", i.e. State Enterprise for Posts and Telecommunications.
By decree in 1965 the organizations for Posts and Telecommunications were
separated and a new state enterprise, "Perusahaan Negara Telekomunikasi",
was created to take over telecommunications.  In April 1970 this enterprise
was continued as PERUSAHAAU1 UDRNU  TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERUVTEL) a State owned
corporation.
2.07      PERU1TEL is entrusted by law to operate all domestic and scme in-
ternational telecommunications services in Indonesia.  It is responsible
for operating agreements for es&ao±ishing circuits, division of revenues,
etc., with foreign administrations on a bilateral or multilateral basis.
It also proposes tariffs for various telecommunications services and applies
them after obtaining ministerial and parliamentary consent.
2.08      There are at present separate communications systems for military,
civil aviation and maritime use. Further, as PERUUMTEL are unable to meet
all public needs, licenses are granted annually to private parties by the
Ivinistry of Communications, for the operation of point-to-point HF radio
communication.
2.09      In June 1967, the Indonesian Government negotiated with the
ITT Corporation to provide international telecommunications. A company
has been set up to install and operate a satellite earth station, This
company will take over an increasing proportion of international communica-
tions as HF radio circuits are replaced by satellite circuits. Salient
points in the agreement between the two parties are set out in Annex 1.
2.10      The organization chart for PERUNTEL is set out in Annex 2.  Tele-
communications are administered by a board of management, which has five
members. The chairman serves as the First Director and is the chief execu-
tive of PERUIVMUEL; the other four are responsible for administration and
personnel, finance, planning and operations, and supply. The chiefs of
the divisions within the four departments assist the directors in running
their respective departments. Above the Board, there is a Director General
who, working under the Minister of Communications, lays down general
policies to be followed by the Board and to be implemented through the
First Director.
2.11      The field organization chart is at Annex 3.  There are 12 tele-
communications districts, each headed by a Regional Director who serves
as the district's chief executive and is responsible for the operation and



-4-
maintenance of all assets except major construction, planning and program-
ming of telecommunications which is carried out by the Board. Each
Regional Director is allocated a budget and has full powers to operate
within it.
2.12      Even though many among the engineering staff have the necessary
knowledg,e and training, the operations of PERUIvgEL are unsatisfactory due
to la.c3. of organization, direction and low staff morale.  Commercial,
traffic and operating records are not maintained. Planning, programming
and administration are carried out with inadequate support data. There is
no regular accounting system and PERUMTEL's financial organization and
operation are in a state of confusion. The general state of disorganization
contributes to serious deficiencies in effective management control and
financial discipline.
Staff
2.13      The total number of employees in telecommunications is 21,365
(details of breakdown by grade, pay scales, service conditions, etc., are
at Annex 4). With a total of 189,600 working telephones excluding a
telegraph staff of 5,000, the employed ratio works out to 86 per 1,000
telephones, wihich is high compared to other developing countries. Govern-
ment has now agreed not to increase until 1974 the total number of its
employees without prior consultation with the Association. This measure
would bring down the ratio to 60 per 1,000 telephones by 1974--a more
reasonable figure considering the large number of manual exchanges that
still will be functioning.
2.14      The pay scales of the staff are low and inadequate in relation
to the cost of living.  Many PERtThEL staff, unable to subsist on their
very low salaries, take on additionel employment outside the organization.
The consultants would recommend a suitable wage structure and service
conditions (see para 2.17).
Training
2.15      In 1960 agreement was reached with UNIWDP for the establishment of
a central telecommunications training center located at Bandung which would
give senior and other technicians advanced training. Due to delays in
buildings, the three year project, wao only begun in 1968 (UMEDPis executing
agency is the International Telecommunication Union).  It also aims
to establish 12 regional telecommunication schools. The facilities to be
set up under the project should prove adequate for meeting PERUMTEL's
training requirements for its development program. Additional information
on capacity of the schools, courses to be provided and likely outputs are
contained in Annex 4.



2.l .n, respect of staff in the financial branch, no training courses
have been set up even though tnese staff are recruited without special
entrance qualifications. Government has agreed to make suitable arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Association for the training of PERUMTEL's
technical and financial staff.
Organizational Changes and Assistance
2.17      PEKIM1TEL has been set up by an executive order in April 1970 as
a State owned corporation (PERiI) (see para. 2.06) to manage and operate
telecommunication services. The constitution of a PERUM is contained in
Presidential Decree No. 17 of 1967 as reproduced in Annex 5.  In order to
reorganize PERUNTEL now to function efficiently along commercial lines, as
required for a PERUM, the Government has agreed to the appointment of
management consultants to examine the present organization and to make
recommendations to place PERUMETL on a sound commercial basis with terms
of reference (Annex 6) and to a timetable satisfactory to the Association.
The cost of consultants would be covered by the proposed IDA credit. The
retention of management consultants is a condition of effectiveness of the
credit. The Government has applied for three experts to be obtained under
the Coloibo Plan for a three-year period to assist the consultants, imple-
ment the recommendations as finalized from time to time and continue to
advise and assist PERIfTEL in a number of other matters. If these experts
cannot be obtained, the terms of reference of the consultants would be
extended accordingly. The job descriptions of the experts are at Annexes
7, 8, and 9.
2.18      To help coordinate work on the project, the Government has
requested the Australian Government to extend by another three years the
period of service of the present technical mission, which has assisted
PERUMTEL in preparing the Five-Year Development Program and in the detailed
planning of the long distance network.
Finances - General
2.19      PERUMTML's overall financial organization and operation are in
a state of confusion stemming from the abnormal political and economic
conditions in Indonesia since World War II, including rampant inflation.
An accounting system Is almost totally lacking. The only financial
statements PERUMTEL has been able to prepare are preliminary, rudimentary
in form and out of date; they consist mainly of cash receipts and payments
for the fiscal yean 1967 and 1968, which are constantly being adjusted as
new data come to light. The value of assets is not known, nor has a balance
sheet been prepared. Depreciation charges have been allowed only to the
extent of 10% of cash operating expenses. This is unrealistic in that it
is in no way related to the value and life history of the plant and is also
well below the level of provision which should be made.  PERUMTEL has not
made provision for pension costs and liability.



- 6 -
2.20      A basic difficulty is that the PERU4TEL operation, which includes
some 100 telephone offices located throughout Indonesia, suffers from a
lack of timely information flow from the field to headquarters. The limited
financial information produced in the field offices is received in head-
quarters anywhere from 6 to 8 months late; in some cases it is not sent at
all.
2.21      The present financial organization is almost totally lacking in
staff trained in accounting principles. The chief financial officer has
dealt with financial matters to any significant degree only since 1967
when he joined PERW1iTEL from the postal operation.
2.22      The consultants and Colombo Plan experts referred to in para. 2.17
will help correct many of these deficiencies. The consultants will examine
PERUMTEL's entire financial organization and operation, and then recommend
and, with assistance from the experts, initiate necessary changes that
should include a modern accounting system to function as an effective tool
of management. The Colombo Plan experts will also help establish and
supervise on-the-job training programs.
Audit
2.23      The law stipulates that every year PE&JMTEL will furnish the
Minister and the General Auditing Board an annual account consisting of
a balance sheet and an operating statement "according to procedures and
time to be fixed by the Minister," and that if no written objections are
made by the Minister within two months after receipt of the accounting
report, the annual account becomes final and legal.
2.24      In practice, however, the only data submitted thus far have been
inadequate statements of cash receipts and payments for the 1967 and 1968
fiscal years.  In the present state of PiMITEL's accounts, an audit would
not be possible; therefore, the Association's customary requirement of
audited accounts before presentation to the Board will have to be waived
until the consultants have had time to value the fixed assets and establish
a modern accounting system (see para. 2.17). Although all the consultants'
recommendations may not be implemented by 1972, allowing a full fiscal year
for establishing an accounting system, independent auditors, satisfactory
to the Association, should commence their work beginning with the accounts
of 1972.  In the interim, the auditing function will be perfozmed--even if
partially--by the financial officer/adviser (see Annex 7) obtained by
PERWiTEL under the Colombo Plan. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that independent auditors, satisfactory to the Association, will
be retained to conduct an annual audit beginning with the accounts ending
December 31, 1972, and that the audited statements with the auditor's
report will be sent to the Association no later than four months after the
close of each fiscal year.
Present Financial Position
2.25      Although PLRUMTEL's accounts as prepared do not provide a basis
for a meaningful analysis, the following data wsere established as a basis
for making forecasts.



2.26      The present revenue position was verified and serves as the basis
for the revenue forecast. Operating expenses were estimated from data
obtained from various sources and by using reasonable assumptions. Estimates
of plant value as of December 31, 1968, are based on its known age, type,
and the observed condition of a representative cross-section. Detailed notes
and assumptions used in constructing these notional figures form part of
Annexes 11 and 12. Estimates based on the assumptions are considered to
be sufficiently reliable to form a basis for analyzing PERUViTELIs operations.
2.27      In order to give a picture of the financial operations, this
report includes a pro forma commercial presentation of the past two years
and tentative four-year forecasts of financial operations and position of
PERUiMTEL, including balance sheets, profit and loss statements and cash
flow statements (Annexes 11, 12, and 13, respectively).  Following is a
summary of the pro forma balance sheet as of December 31, 1969:
Rp Billion    US$ Million
Assets
Fixed assets
Plant in service                             19.2            59.0
Less:  depreciation reserve                  (8.2)          (25.2)
Plant under construction                      1.2             3.7
Total net fixed assets                    12.2           =37.
Current assets
Accounts receivable                            3.5           10.7
Other                                         1.6             4.9
Less:  current liabilities                    (2.1)          (6.4)
Total assets                              13.2             77
Liabilities
Equity                                        12.2           37.5
Long-term debt                                 3.0            9.2
Total liabilities                          !77 2777
2.28      The valuation of plant in service and the depreciation reserve
are necessarily tentative and will have to be reviewed by the consultants
and formally established. Plant under construction for 1969 is assumed to
be 4ho of the sum of the 1969 construction program plus plant under construc-
tion of the previous year. Iiet current assets are estimated at Rp 3.0
billion. With the introduction of commercial accounting concepts, the
value of plant would become significant and serve as a basis for establish-
ing depreciation rates, tariffs and a rate base, and therefore, should be
adjusted to allow for variations in the price level. During negotiations
assurances were obtained thet PERUMTEL will proper'y value its plant at
least annually in a manner satisfactory to the Association.



- 8 -
2.29      Equity, which accounts for about 80% of total capitalization, iE
assumed to consist of (a) retained earnings which is the amount of annual
profit available for transfer to retained earnings, (b) subscribers' capital
contributions, made up of installation charges (footnote 1 to page 1 of
Annex 12), and (c) Government investment.
2.30      In the past, Government has financed most of PERUMTEL's construc-
tion which has consisted mostly of minor items, and has serviced any foreign
credits or loans. For this presentation, however, it is assumed that
for  the notional accounts for 1968  and 1969, PEMITEL is responsible for
debt from project aid loans incurred on its behalf, and services it on
terms similar to present Bank loans, i.e., 7% p.a., a term of 20 years,
including a four-year grace period. The notional long-term debt in 1969
of Rp 3 billion (US$9.2 million) represented 20% of total capitalization
and consisted of project aid loans to the Indonesian Government from
Australia, Japan, the Netherlands and West Germany and made available to
PERUITEL. The low amount of debt reflects a situation where little debt
capital has been obtainable.
2.31      The high level of accounts receivable presents a serious problem;
it stems mainly from the fact that the Government, which accounts for some
30% of the total subscribers, rarely pays its bills. PERUMTEL estimates
that overdue Government receivables as of June 30, 1969, are between
Rp 1.5 billion and Rp 2.0 billion (US$4h5-6.O million), amounting to some
30-35% of estimated total billings for the previous 12 months. Corrective
action by Government in this respect would have to be taken if PERUMTEL
is to become a viable operation and the project is not to be jeopardized.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that Government will (a) pay
its accounts with PERUMTEL promptly and (b) make arrangements satisfactory
to the Association not later than one year after the date of the Development
Credit agreement for the settlement of all debt of the Government to
PERRUMTEL as of June 30, 1970. For the purposes of the financial forecasts
in this report, allowing for the least favorable action for PERUITEL, it
has been ass-umed that past Government overdue accounts will be written
off in settlement as a charge against the Government's equity in PERUMTEL.
Past Earnings
2.32      Estimated pro forma statements of income for fiscal years 1968
and 1969 are shown in Annex 12. Revenues increased about 27% in 1969 over
the previous year, reflecting the full effect of a tariff increase in
1968, while operating expenses increased about 21%, due mainly to increased
staff expenses. The high rates of return of 12.8% in 1968 and 17.0% in
1969, along with favorable operating ratios of 76% and 73% are due to the
low value of plant (rate base--little plant has been added over the last
20 years) and low wage level. In 1970, the rate of return is estimated
to drop to 8.7% and the operating ratio to rise to 84% as a result of
assumed higher staff expenses and the expansion program. These rates of
return are based on the estimated value of net plant in service, and,
until the consultants make a detailed examination of the fixed assets,
they must be considered as tentative.



2.33      Due to poor collections from Government, the cash available to
PERlEMTEL from 1968 and 1969 operations has little more than covered its
cash operating expenses; consequently, PERUMTEL has been able to finance
only a very small part of its construction works.
Tariffs
2.34      Under the constitution of a Perum, Government has the right to
set tariff policy.  Subject to this, proposals for tariff changes are
formulated and implemented within PERTJITEL. At present Government has
not established a specific tariff policy.
2.35      Zxisting charges for service (Annex 10), have not been set in a
systematic manner, resulting in an unbalanced rate structure.  For example,
installation charges in certain areas are US$345 equivalent, while rental
charges are US074 per month.  The present rate structure and level of tariffs
require revision in order to allow PERUtMTEL to meet its revenue requirements
under a commercial-type operation, and especially in a situation where wages
are urgently required to be raised.
2.36      It will be necessary for the consultants to value the fixed assets
and examine the structure and level of tariffs. Once the value of fixed
assets is established and a rate base determined, tariffs should be adjusted
and maintained at a level to assure the future viability of the enterprise,
taking into account any future price level changes affecting the value of
plant (para. 2.28). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that new
tariffs would become effective within six months after the Association's
comments on the recommendations of the consultants. While tariff changes
should await the consultants' study, there is one aspect that requires
correction now. At present there is a high charge differential between
manual long distance and STD services resulting in high demand for manual
service; this is undesirable and costly in operation. Therefore, wherever
STD service is available, the rates for manual and for STD service should be
equal--at about the present "urgent" rate. The introduction of this interim
measure is a condition of effectiveness. Assurances were also obtained that,
other than the foregoing change, no alteration in existing tariffs will be
made without the Association's approval, until the consultants have examined
the tariffs and made recommendations.
2.37      Tariff increases are assumed in the financial forecasts beginning
in the lattx part of 1971 and are estimated to increase revenues about 35%
over the three-year period 1971-73, which is reasonable in view of PEfUMTEL's
present tariff level.  A rate of return of 1.0j by 1973, when the revenue
from the project would begin to tace full effect, would seem to be a reason-
able objective for PER$UVITET; it wold allow the entity to
finance about h0Q of its expansion from internal sources. During negotia-
tions it was agreed that PERUMTEL would maintain its tariffs at a level to
cover all costs of operations, taxes, debt service, and to finance a reason-
able portion of capital expenditure; and after 1972, to produce a minimum
rate of return of 10% on average net fixed assets in operation. The valua-
tion of fixed assets is covered by the agreement described in para. 2.28.



- 10 -
3.  EXISTING TEIECO11TTICATIONS FACILITIES
3.01      The telephone density in Indonesia is 0.15 telephones per 100
persons, and is one of the lowest in that part of the world. Annex 14
sets out the telephone density in Indonesia and some of the adjoining
countries. The telecommunication facilities in general are also inadequate.
The basic data for the network are set out at Annex 15.
Lo-al '2eleohorne Service
3.02      At the end of 1968, the total number of local exchanges func-
tioning in the country was 524 and the number of connected subscribers,
134,429, comprising 23 automatic exchanges with 63,211 connected sub-
scribers, 37 central battery exchanges with 28,051 connected subscribers,
and 464 local battery exchanges with 43,167 connected subscribers. Annex
16 shous the breakdown for the various islands.  The growth of connected
subscribers in the 1963-1968 period (see Note 1 in Annex 17) works out
to 9c per annum.
3.03      Only 5, of the telephone exchanges now in operation were instal-
led during the last 10 years. Many exchanges are over 20 years old.
About 90pl of these comprise local battery exchanges.  These have
serious limitations in operation and are being replaced in all modern
telecommunications networks by more efficient switching systems. The
general standard of service is poor and wjill continue to be so till they
are gradually replaced during this and future programs.
3.0o      In the largest networks, an underground cable distribution system
(presently consisting mostly of armored cable buried directly in the ground)
has been adopted, while in the smaller networks and in the rural areas, a
mixture of underground and aerial cable (in some cases, wholly open wire)
distribution is being used. Flexibility in the cable networks of the large
areas is provided through outdoor distribution cabinets and pillars. It is
proposed to use duct lines instead of direct cable burial in the major
cities. Iihile this would increase the local costs initially, constant and
costly digging and reinstatement of roads would be avoided in the long run.
Long Distance Service
3.05      Long distance service between Djakarta and Bandung is provided
on a microwave system. Between Djakarta and Tandjungkarang, a 12-channel
very high frequency (VHF) radio system has been installed. Satisfactory
service is provided on only these two links in the whole of Indonesia.
3.06      In the island of Java, long distance service is largely provided
on open wire lines and through open wire carrier systems. In Sumatra
there are only a few such links and a few isolated ones exist for short
distances in one or two of the other islands. The long distance traffic
in all these islands is handled on high frequency (HF) radio. Service



- 11 -
between the islands is provided on I-F radio systems with a capacity of one
or two channels even betveen large cities. The service also functions
for part of the day only, between nearly all places.
3.07      Long distance traffic is handled manually, except between
Djakarta and Bandung where STD facilities have been provided. Due to
frequent failures and interruption during conversation, the handling of
calls is slow and the equipment inefficiently utilized.
3.08      The congestion on long distance circuits is heavy with long
delays to traffic due to total inadequacy of the links,and it is unreliable
due to unstable open wire and HF radio communications. The quality of
speech is unsatisfactory and the service is poor.
3.09      This state of affairs will continue until subscriber trunk dial-
ling over microwave and tropospheric scatter links is introduced. A
microwave link has been commissioned on the Djakarta-Bandung section and
extensions of the system, first to Surabaya via Semarang and Jogjakarta,
and on to Den Pasar in Bali are on hand. Work is expected to be completed
in 1970.  Details of the existing system, the extensions at present on
hand, and proposed under the project, are indicated on the 14ap.
Telegraph Service
3.10      A network of telegraph lines and offices serves all of Indonesia.
There are 458 circuits connecting 720 telegraph offices using 20,814 km
of telegraph wire. PERUHTEL sta-f operate all of these offices.  There
are also 14 leased tole,raph circuits.
3.11      Telex facilities are available through 17 exchanges equipped for
a total of 680 lines.  These eXchanges have [C6 subscribers.
International Facilities
3.12      The international exchange is located at Bandung and has eight
switchboards. PERUI4TEL bas decided to shift this exchpnSe to Djakarta,
the major traffic center', during 1970.
3.13      Two high frequency (HF) radio telephone circuits operate to
Hong Kong and Singapore and one each to 'loscow, Poona, Karachi, Berne,
Amsterdam, lHanila, Oakland (US), Sydney, Kuala Lumnpur and Shanghai.
3.14      International telegraph traffic is handled at Djakarta, Medan,
Bandung and Sukarnapura. Direct comn=,ication is provided over HF radio
and satellite from Indonesia to Kuala Lumpur, 11oscow, Karachi, Amsterdam,
Hong Kong, Ianila, Sydney, Singapore, Shanghai and Bombay.
3.15      International telex service was introduced in 1965. The traffic
has grown phenomenally from 532 calls (9,920 call-minutes duration) in
1965 to 28,358 calls (374,779 call-minutes duration) in 1968.



- 12 -
3.16      A satellite earth station has recently been commissioned at
Djati Luhur, located between Bandung and Djakarta.  Tokyo, London, Frankfurt,
Madrid, Kuala Lumpur and Sydney have been linked thus far (three circuits
to Tokyo, two each to London and Frankfurt and one each to Madrid, Kuala
Lumpur and Sydney). The satellite earth station is maintained by a company
set lp by agreement between the Government and International Telephone
and Telegraph Corporation (para. 2.09 and Annex 1).



- 13 -
4. THE PROGRAM AE'D PROJECT
Program
4.01  PERUfTEL has, with the assistance of an Australian mission, drawn up
a Five-Year Development Program for the period 1969-1973. The Government
has approved the program, subject to budgetary provisions on an annual
basis. The program mainly provides for:
(a) an increase of about 65,ooo telephone stations;
(b)  extending the microwave link from Djakarta-Bandung to
Semarang, Jogjakarta, Surabaya and Den Pasar;
(c) constructing a microi.ave link through Sumatra
connecting with Java to provide trunk service to the
towns en route;
(d) constructing a tropospheric scatter link between Java
and Kalimantan;
(e)  providing trunk switching equipment in Java, Sumatra
and Bali;
(f)  extending the telex network; and
(g) constructing buildings for offices and training centers.
The program, which is set out in Annex 18, calls for a total expenditure
of Rp 30.2 billion (US$81.5 million), including a foreign exchange component
of Rp 18.4 billion (US$49.4 million), and is designed to meet the most
urgent requirements within the limited resources likely to be available.
Since rehabilitation and conversion of old and obsolete manual exchanges
to automatic working is urgenit, the net growth of connected telephones
during this period will be only 5.3% per annum, which is even lower than
the historical rate of growth of 9% per annum. The long distance expansion
similarly concentrates on the most essential and important routes. Under
the circumstances, all funds made available to this sector should be used
to complete works in the program. Government has agreed to consult with
the Association before any major change is made in PERUMTEL's five year
development program (1969-1973).
Project
4.02      The proposed project forms part of the 1969-1973 development
program and will be undertaken during the three-year period from April 1,
1970 to I4arch 31, 1973. The project provides for:
(a) a trans-Sumatra microwave system linking into Java;
(b) a tropospheric scatter system between Java and
Kalimantan;
(c)  STD switching, terminal and operator dialing equipment;
(d) interoffice and local distribution cables; and
(e) additions and extensions to the telex network.



- 14 -
The selection of these items was done on the basis of their high priority
and the self-contained nature of these investments within the program.
Long distance communications are being extended and modernised in Java.
Sumatra, the next important island and the source of large export earnings
has practically no long distance communications, Kalimantan's rich natural
resources are also being developed. The project will provide stable and
quick telephone communication between these islands and within Sumatra.
The provis_on of cables and telex extensions will extend and improve
the local service and provide good service essential in business comuni-
cation. The total cost of the project is Rp 8.6 billion (US$22.6 million).
The foreign exchange component is Rp 5.3 billion (US$14.1 million), of
which the Association would finance Rp 4.8 billion (US$12.8 million) with
the remainder coming from bilateral sources.
h.03      The plant provisions are described below:
(a) Trans-Sumatra microwave system linking with the Java micro-
wave network. This is a major provision of 960-channel microwave equipment
connecting the northwest tip of Java to the main city of Medan in northwest
Sumatra, with spurs to Palembang, Djambi, Padang, Bukittinggi and Sibolga.
This involves the provision of some 50 microwave stations, some of them
at relatively inaccessible locations and requiring access roads that will
be difficult to build. Provision for the necessary multiplexing equipment
has been made for approximately 500 circuits. Also, it is proposed to
use the telephone standby for television relay with a fail-safe condition,
so that if the main radio channel should fail, the standby would be taken
over for telephone purposes and television signal transmission would cease.
(b) Tropospheric scatter system linking Surabaya in East Java
with Bandjarmasin in Kalimantan. The system will consist of two separate
tropospheric scatter hops, with an intermediate station on one of the
small islands in the Java Sea. The system would have a capacity of 60
channels and would meet foreseeable requirements for the developing area
of Kalimantan.
(c) STD switching, terminal and operator dialing equipment for
the island of Sumatra, linking with the existing long distance networks
in Java and Bali.
Provision has been made in (a), (b) and (c) above for the ac-
quisition of sites, construction of buildings to house the equipment, and
purchase of equipment for training of technical staff.
(d) Interoffice and local distribution cables. Additional local
distribution and interoffice cables will be provided to meet part of the
outstanding requirements in Djakarta, These additions would permit the
.connection of 5,000 new subscribers and would ease some of the present
congestion on the interoffice connections. The relatively high local



- 15 -
expenditure is due to the necessity to install conduits requiring extremely
costly excavations and reinstallation in connection with the provisions
for new cable. Under the existing circumstances, the alternative of
continuing with directly buried armored cable would be uneconomic.
(e) Additions and extensions to the telex network. A new 100-
'line telex exchange for Medan is included in the project, along with tele-
printers to meet immediate requirements for connecting telex subscribers
to this and other exchanges forming the telex network.
Costs of the Project
4.04      The schedule below sets out the costs of the project:
Rp Billion            US$ Mvillion       % of
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total    Total
1. Trans-Sumatra
microwave
system               2.17   3.21   5.38    5.74   8.50   14.24   62.9
2. Java-Kalimantan
tropospheric
scatter system       0.16   0.61   0.76    0.41   1.60    2.01    8.9
3. STD switching,
terminal and
operator dialing
equipment for
Sumatra               0.21   0.45   0.66    0.56   1.20    1.76    7.7
4. Interoffice and
local distribu-
tion cables          0.43   0.27   0.69    1.11   0.70    1.81    8.0
5. Additions and
extensions to
the telex
network              0.23   0.19   0.44    0.64   0.50    1.14    5.0
6.  Consultants           0.03   0.30   0.33    0.08   0.80    0.88    4.0
7.  Contingencies            -   0.30   0.30        -   0.80    0.80    3.5
Total cost       3.23   5.33   8.56    8.54  14.10   22.64  100.0



- 16 -
4.05      Provision has been made in the project for the employment of
management consultants to advise, and help in organizing PERUMTEL
to run the telecommunications services on commercial lines. An allowance
of 7 1/2% has been included under foreign exchange expenditure for contin-
gencies. The total expenditures contain a built in element of 8% for possib'e
contingencies.
4.06      No provision for customs duties on imported equipment has been
made as Government has dccided to waive customs duties on all equipment
received on aid projects.
4.07      The project has been well designed, is technically sound and
will be progressively completed between 1971 and 1973. Details of the
project provisions indicating the target dates of completion of the various
items to enable orderly commissioning of equipment are set out in Annex 19.
4.08      The Government has requested the Australian Government to extend
the period of service of the present technical mission by three years to
coordinate all works on the project and the response has been favorable.
W-vith the assistance of the technical mission and that to be provided by
the contractors and equipment installers, PERUMITEL should be capable of
carrying out the project satisfactorily and operating the new facilities
when they are completed.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.09      All items purchased under the credit (items 1, 2, 4 and 5 of
para 4.04) would be subject to international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the established procedure of the Bank group.  The STD switching
equipment for Java and Bali is being obtained under bilateral aid and
PERUTEL wants to ensure that Sumatra STD eauipment is of the same type
as Java and Bali.  PERUTvTEL propose therefore to obtain the STD swTitching,
terminal, and operator dialing equipment for the project (item 3 of para.
4.04) under bilateral aid. Government has assured the Association that
it will make arrangements satisfactory to the Association to obtain
the  necesspry foreigr  exchange financing  for this expenditure.   This
is a condition of effectiveness of the credit. The survey and engineering of
the J2va-Kalimantpn tropospheric scatter system are being done under a bi-
lateral a-reement for which the foreign exchange expenditure of Rp 0.04
billion (US$0.10 million) has already been arranged.
4.10      In Annex 20 are set out the expected annual rate of expenditure
and disbursement for the credit, project and program. The disbursements
under the credit would be for the CIF cost of the equipment, the foreign
exchange costs of the consultants, manufacturers' services, and the overseas
cost of training. If there are any overall savings in expenditure in the
items proposed for Association financing, these should be used to finance
additional items in the program which are of the same type as those included
in the original project subject to the agreement of the Association at
the time.



- 17 -
5. JJUSTIFICATIOI'T OF T"IE PROJECT
5.01      Indonesia has all the features which demand the availability of
a good telecommunications system. Indonesia depends for its well-being on
exports of produce from its various islands. The commercial, economic
and administrative activities are situated in Java. Djakarta is the head-
quarters of the Government and is the main link between Indonesia and the
rest of the world. Because of the geographical features, movement of
goods from the interior to the ports needs close coordination between all
forms of transportation. Further, it is necessary for the principal
dealers and exporters in Java to be in close and constant touch with the
producers in the various areas of Indonesia. To establish easy and quick
contacts between producers, traders, transporters and exporters, a good
telecommunications system is essential and will produce major benefits to
the economy.
5.02      The inadequacy of the present long distance facilities is dis-
cussed in paras. 3.06 and 3.08, and can be summed up by saying that the
existing netwTork has neither the capacity, spread, reliability nor trans-
mission quality to meet the demands required of it. Due to this,
some 48 public entities, departments and private companies (military
communications excluded) have installed their own communication networks
using in most cases point-to-point high frequency (HF) radio communica-
tions. These are costly to operate and not completely satisfactory, but
these networks offer better facilities than PERUNTEL's public network.
5.03      A microwave system has been commissioned between Djakarta and
Bandung and subscriber trunk dialing introduced on this section. The
requirements of circuits along the long distance arteries in the project
have been based on the experience in this section, suitably amended to
take into account the commumity of interest in each case and the experience
in other developing countries. The proposed microwave system in Sumatra
and between Sumatra and Java and the tropospheric scatter system between
Java and Kalimantan have been designed to meet these requirements at a
minimum cost in capital and recurring expenditures.  These systems will,
in addition, provide a reliable and speedy long distance service of adequate
quality.
5.04      There is acute congestion in the interoffice traffic in the
Djakarta exchange system due to lack of adequate cable capacity. In addi-
tion, in Djakarta exchange equipment remains unutilized, despite large
unfilled demands, due to lack of cables. The cables provided in the project
will help remove the interoffice congestion in Djakarta and enable smooth
flow of local and long distance traffic. These cables would also provide
for 5,000 new subscribers to be connected in Djakarta.
5.05      Telex service is very useful in business communications and
produces a high return on a relatively small investment.  There is a heavy
unfilled demand for this service. The installation of a teleprinter exchange



- 18 -
at Medan and teleprinters where required would enable 250 additional sub-
scribers to be connected to the network to meet a part of the existing
demand.
5.06      The calculation of an incremental financial return is appended
as Annex 21. The benefits are established on the basis of the estimated
direct revenues from (a) the long distance circuit provisions of the
project; (b) the additional subscriber lines to be provided using cable
covered by the project; (c) the extensions to be made to the telex network.
The discount rate which equates the present value of the cost and attribu-
table revenues over the life of the project, i.e. the incremental rate of
return, is about 16.8% at current prices. Indirect returns, although
hard to quantify, are considerable and will accrue to other parts of the
economy. The incremental financial return may be accepted as a measure
of the minimum economic return. This return is considered to be satisfactory,
particularly since the calculations are based on conservative estimates.



- 19 -
6. FUTURE FINANCES
Financing Plan
6.01      A forecast of sources and applications of funds for the four
years 1970-1973 is shown in Annex 13. The basic assumptions used are:
(a) those listed in the notes to Annex 12, in particular an upward
adjustment in tariffs and staff remuneration; (b) the execution of the
construction program as presently planned by PERUMTEL, and, (c) reason-
ably stable prices. The financing plan for the three years 1970-1972
covering the construction period of the proposed IDA project is summarized
as follows:
Period of IDA Pro-ect - 197Q-1972
Rp Million     U iMillions    %
Re-Virements
IDA project                               8,370°          22.1          38
other construction                       12 710           33.7          59
Total development program                      21,08 97
Working capital increase                     722           1.9           3
Total requirements                     21,802           57.7         100
Sources
Internal cash generation                  8,285           21.9          38
Less:  Debt service                        2,775           7.3          13
Government tax                       799            2.1           3
Net internal cash                          4,711          12.5          22
Installation charges                      2,038            5.4           9
Borrowings:  Project aid loans             8,,407         22.2          39
Government funds - IDA       4,646           12.3         21
- Other    2,000            5?.3         9
Total borrowings          15,053          39.8          69
Total sources                          21,802           57.7         100
I/ Effective April 17, 1970, the Government of Indonesia adopted an exchange
reform under which the two former exchange rates--the BE (Bonus Export -
Rp 326/US$1) and the DP (Devisa Pelengkap or Complementary Foreign
Exchange - between Rp 375 and Rp 382 to US$1)--were merged into one at
Rp 378 to US$1. The exchange rate of Rp 378 has been used for all con-
versions subsequent to April 17, 1970.
2/ This does not include retention payments of Rp 192 million (US$0.5 millionX



- 20 -
Given the uncertain nature of the basic financial data, this financing
plan should rather be considered as an illustration of the assumptions
used, which would allow some further conclusions to be drawn. The con-
tribution of 31% from internal sources is lower than in many other
telecommunications projects, but seems acceptable in view of the large
capital expansion. Borrowings would amount to 69%, and while substan-
tially increasing the present low debt ratio, the capital structure
would remain acceptable. The financing plan as sho-n is reasonable.
6.02      The total foreign exchange reouirement during the three-year
period of the project, other than that covered by the proposed IDA credit,
amounts to US$22.2 million and is assumed to be made available largely
through bilateral assistance, presumably from IGGI members. It is further
assumed that the average cost of capital to PERUNIrEL would be 7%, and that
loan capital will be repayable over 20 years including a four-year grace
period. Should all the estimated foreign exchange funds not be available
to PERPUMTEL or the Government, the program w'ill be reduced in consultation
with the Association (see pars. 4.01). During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the availability of funds to carry out the program will be
reviewed by PERUMTEL and IDA at least annually during the period of the
project. PERUIITEL will be requested, as part of the normal reporting
requirement; to inform the Association periodically during the period of
the project about medium and long-term debts incurred, including terms
and conditions. The maximum level of indebtedness is governed by a debt
limitation covenant (see para. 6.11).
6.03      The remaining finances to be provided for the three-year period
of the project are local funds amounting to Rp 2 billion (US$5.3 million),
which would be treated as debt on the same relending terms as the IDA
credit. The unavailability of any of these funds would also affect the
program, similarly as outlined in para. 6.02. The annual review of
PERUTiTELts program, mentioned in para. 6.02, would also give an opportunity
to review this situation. The completion of the project, for which the
proposed IDA credit would provide the foreign exchange financing, has been
assured through the commitment by the Government to make funds available,
as required. This is justified by the fact that the project is of highest
priority and self-contained.
6.04      During negotiations it was confirmed that the proposed IDA credit
will be relent to PERUMTEL at an interest rate of 12% and a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of four years. PERUMEL would have to bear the
exchange risk for the repayment of foreign currency loans. For the local
currency loans, the Government also requires a maintenance of value by
basing the rupiah repayment on the notional U.S. dollar equivalent of these
loans.



- 21 -
Future Operatting Results
6.o5      Forecast statements of earnings for the four-year period 1970-
1973 are shown in Annex 12, using assumptions forming part of Annex 12 and
others enumerated in para. 6.01. On the basis of these assumptions,
together with the expansion and improvement of the long distance and local
service facilities under the proposed construction program, the net
operating income is forecast to increase from Rp 1.8 billion in 1969 to
Rp 2.8 billion in 1973. Total operating revenues over the four-year period
would show an average annual rate of growth of 22%, of which 12% is due to
assumed tariff increases (see para. 2.37). Operating expenses, not includ-
ing depreciation, would increase at an annual average of 26% and allow for
higher staff wages and a staff pension plan.
6.o6      These illustrative forecasts indicate that the rate of return on
average net plant in service would be between 8% and 9% during 1970-1972
and then rise to about 10.5% in 1973, the first year following completion
of the three-year project. The operating ratio is shown to decline slightly
through 1973, partly as a result of the ban on further staff recruitment
(see para. 2.13). This ratio is on the high side in relation to the rate
of return, primarily because operating expenses are higher than normal as
a result of overstaffing and lack of automatization.
6.07      The forecast operating results would be satisfactory in PERUKTEL's
circumstances.  At some future time, PERUMTEL should be in a position to
begin paying a dividend to Government on its investment. The forecast
indicates that in 1973 funds would be available for this purpose or for
additional reinvestment in capital expansion. During negotiations assur-
ances were obtained that until 1976 PERUNITEL will not make any distribution
of its earnings or capital without prior consultation with the Association.
6.08      Government tax on profits is on a graduated scale beginning with
20% and increasing to 45% before profits reach Rp 6.5 million (US$17,000
equivalent). The maximum rate of 45% would apply for the period of the
forecast.
Future Financial Position
6.og      Estimated balance sheets (Annex 11) as of December 31, 1969
through 1973, show that the value of net plant in service is expected to
increase almost threefold. This unusually high increase is due to the
estimated low value of net plant in 1969. The debt/equity ratio would
rise from 20/80 in 1969 to 61/39 in 1973; equity would increase from
Rp 12.2 billion to Rp 14.1 billion, with the Government investment
portion decreasing from Rp 10.7 billion to Rp 8.6 billion as a result
of charging Government investment with past Government overdue accounts
(see para. 2.31). Considering the 45% profit tax paid to Government,
the assumed dividend payment, and the fact that the proposed IDA credit
and project aid loans are only channelled through Government, the actual
net flow of funds from Government to PERTUKTEL would amount to only some
Rp 0. billion--less than 2% of PERUMTEL's total requirements over the
four-year period 1970-1973.



- 22 -
6.10      Internal cash generation is estimated to increase from Rp 2.7
b-:2ion in -L969 to ip 4.6 billion in 1973, covering debt service between
2.4 and 5.4 times during the forecast period.  Later, when amortization
payments would begin on IDA and other Government borrowings, debt service
coverage would be at least two times. Internal cash generation, together
with installation charges, less debt service, Government tax and dividends,
would amount to 36% of total requirements for the four-year period. This
is satisfactory considering (a) the substantial allowance made for increas-
ing staff remuneration, (b) the entity's total net fixed assets would
considerably more than double, and (c) revenue from the project would not
begin to be fully realized until 1973.
6.11      Although PERUMTEL's long-term  debt shown in the report is notional,
it is assumed that as a Perum (see para. 2.1?), PERUIMTEL will be able to
contract for long-term debt.  Therefore, during negotiations, agreement was
obtained that PERUMTEL will not incur long-term debt without the Associa-
tion's approval unless historic 12 months' net revenues (before charging
depreciation) would cover maximum future debt service at least 1.3 times.



- 23 -
IEC,CM GE AT IOL;TS
7.01      During the loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the
following principal points:
1) Management consultants and experts to reorganize PERUMTEL
and techniCal exp9rts to coordinate works on the project
will be employed (paras. 2.17 and 2.18)
2) Independent auditors will be appointed to audit PERUMTEL's
accounts beginning with fiscal year 1972 (para. 2.24)
3) Payment of Goverment accounts will be made promptly and
arrangements made to settle the amount of Goverrnment accounts
overdue as of June 30, 1970 within one year (para. 2.31)
4) &iew tariffs will be put into effect within six months of
the Association's comments on the consultants recommendations
and will be maintained at a level to produce a minimum rate
of return of 10% on average net fixed assets in operation
(paras. 2.36 and 2.37)
7.02      The following conditions have to be met before the credit is
effective:
1) PE11M4TEL shall have retained management consultants
(para. 2.17)
2) Tariff measure referred to in para. 2.36 will have been put
into effect
3) Additional financing for expenditure in currency, other than
the currency of the Borrower,   for STD switching, terminal
and operator dialing facilities, will have been obtained or
arranged in a manner satisfactory to the Association
(para. 4.09)
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an Associa-
tion Credit of US&12.8 million for a term of 50 years including a grace
period of 10 years.
June 1, 1970



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
IND0NESIA
PERUSAHAAIN UXUM TELEKCPIJNIKASI (PERUMTEL)
Salient Points in the Agreement between Republic of Indonesia and
International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation (ITT)
A. ITT has the right to establish, manage and operate satellite earth sta-
tions in Indonesia for the Government.  The Company set up for the pur-
pose will have a board of seven directors, three of whom will be ap-
pointed by the Government and four, including the managing director, by
ITT.
B. The Corpany will construct and install the satellite earth station,
manage and operate it, and conduct international telephone servnces to,
from, and via Indonesia.
C. The ownership of the station till be vested in the Government of Indo-
nesia who would lease it to the Company. The lease will be for a
period of 20 years.
D. The Company will make a lease payment to the Government for each fiscal
year during which it has a net profit and which will amount to 50% of
such profit, subject to any cumulative loss in previous years being
first set off against the net profit and, further, the sum of this
payment and the equal amount to be retained by the Company exceeds 8%
of the value of ITT's average equity investment. For profits between
8%o and 16%, the Company would reduce the lease payment to the Govern-
ment so as to permit it to retain an amount equal to 8% of such average
equity investment.
E.  The Government and/or PERUMTEL wTill provide Pt no charge (1) extension
service to telephones from the station to Djakarta and Bnndung metropoli-
tan areas, (2) utilisation of existing or future PERUITEL HF radio systems
as bnckup to the satellite facilities, and (3) the necessary land for
the strtion.
F. If in the future it is found desirable to establish international cable
facilities for telecommunications, Government and ITT would cooperate
in the provision of such facilities while ensuring continued operation
of the earth station on a sound financial basis.
G.  The rates to be charged by the Company will not be less than US$h.00
per minute to Europe, Africa and America, and US$3.00 per minute in
Asia and South East Asia. Charges for international telephone service
may be collected by the Company or the local telephone organization,
and all such receipts will be deposited directly to the account of
the Company.  The preferred rate to be charged by the Company for all



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
voice grade channels leased 'oy it to PERUtTEL for subdivision into record
channels will be US$40,ooo per year, and all revenues derived from
these channels can be retained by PERUMTEL.
H. The Company and its contractors will not pay any customs and consular
dutIes, sales and other taxes and royalties on all goods required to
be imported for construction and operation of the station.



INDONESIA: PERUSAHAAN UMUM TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERUMTEL)
ORGANIZATION CHART
MIN ISTER
I _ 1~~
DIRECTOR GENERAL
|PERUSAHAAN                           AA
UMUM                         N EGARA
TELEKOMUNIKASI                    POSTEL
FIRST     |
D DIRECTOR 
DRIRECTOR                       D  IRECTOR                   DIRECTOR    DIIRECTOR
ADKAINISTRATION                 FINANCE                      PLANNING &                     SUPPLY
& PERSONjNEL                                                 OPERATIlONS_ 
JAVA     JAVA   SUMATRA  SUMATRA SUMATRA              JAVA                                IRIAN              rn
IBRD - 4796(R)



INDONESIA: PERUSAHAAN UMUM TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERUMTEL)
ORGANIZATION CHART-FIELD
REGIONAL DIRECTOR
CHIEF
TELECOM DIST
HEADQUARTERS STAFF
I
TELEPHONE         TELEGRAPH        TRANSMISSION               TRAFFIC          PERSONNEL           FINANCE
FIELD STAFF IN CHARGE INDIVIDUAL OFFICES
CHIEFCHECHECIF
TELEPHONE             TELEGRAPH                                T  LRD1
z
IBRD - 4795(R)  -z
__~~~~~c



ANNEX 4
Page i of 4
I:nD(13SIA
PERUSAHAAN I-l~~ TELEKOMUNKASI (PERUMITDEL)
-Tianpower and Training
As on the 1st of January 1969, PERUYiTEL employed 2 staff or
21,365 people to manage -nd operate the telecommunication services.
The breakdown of this staff grade-wise was as follows:-
1.  Top managers           - Grade IV    -          28
2.  Middle managers        - Grade III   -         366
3.  Lower managers         -  Grade II    -      3,394
Supervisors
4.  Employees              -  Grade I      -    17%577
21i 365
A further breakdown of staff into various broad groups
requiredtD manage the facilities provided to the public is as follows:-
Administrative personnel       -  5,774
Operators                      -  5,459
Technical personnel            - 10,132
Recruitment
The points of entry into the service of this organization
are at Grade I, Grade II and Grade III.
Grade I - Staff in this grade are recruited on the basis of
advertisement of vacancies, and graduates from elementary and secondary
schools are eligible for appointment in this grade. Graduates from high
school with special training, graduates from high school without special
training, and graduates from elementary school with special training get
in that order a higher starting pay in that grade.
Grade II - Recruitment is made from amongst graduates from the
Academy or University with Bachelor degree, senior high school with
special training and senior high school without training. Higher
starting pay in this grade is given to the first two groups of recruits.
Grade III - Recruitment is made from amongst graduates from
the University with a Masters degree.
Grade IV - There is no direct recruitment to Grade IV - Promotions
to this grade are made f'rom oelected and chosen personnel.  This grade can
be reached by all persoiinel.



ANCEX 4
Page 2 of h
Promotions
Promotions from Grade I to Grade II and from Grade II to
Grade III are made based on length of service and good work records. In
some cases examinations for promotions are also held.
Regional Directors are empow^zered to promote staff within
their area up to Grade II level. The First Director at Bandung can
prolaote up to Grade III level - any promotion beyond this level is done
by the Director General, after obtaining the approval of the Minister
of Communications.
Dismissals
All dismissals are however carried out centrally at Bandung
after following a prescribed procedure. All service records of all the
staff are maintained in Bandung.
Scales of Pay
The scales of pay generally fall in the following range for
each grade:-
Rp per month     $ per month
Grade I         -       1,000  -   3,000    2.6 -  7.9
Grade II        -       3,000  -   5,000    7.9 - 13.2
Grade III       -       5,000  -  10,000   13.2 - 26.5
Grade IV        -      10,000  -  15,000   26.5 - 39.7
In addition to pay, the staff get free rice on the basis of 10 Kg and
the cash value of sugar of 1 Kg for each member of the family. Staff in
Grades III and IV get in addition free houses and electricity and, where
the interest of service demands it, free cars and telephones. All staff
are entitled to free medical attention and hospital facilities.  A 50W  in-
increase of pay as special allovpnce has recently been approved.
Though exact information is not available as it is not maintained,
PERUMTEL do not experience any large turnover of staff.  They feel that
it does not exceed 0.5% to      every year.
Pension
All full time staff are entitled to pension benefits. The age
for superannuation is 56 years.  The staff have the option to retire after
30 years of service. The amount of pension is 75% of the last take-home
pay. Staff who wish to retire even before completion of 30 years of
service can do so, but the pension is reduced by 2% for every year of
service below 30.



ANUM h
Page 3 of 4
Trensfers
All staff in all grades are liable to be transferred to any
place within the PERUMTEL area. They are however given a house at PERUNTEL
expense at the new station of posting. Generally, however, transfers,
except in case of Grade III and Grade IV staff are rare. It has been
possible to recruit staff locally in the Districts and also to provide first
line supervisory staff by promotion of Grade I staff.
Training
This is imparted to the staff in two ways--basic at the time when
the staff is recruited and in service, later during their career in the
PERUMATEL organization.
For a long time now a training center has been functioning at
Bandung. Recruits to the posts and telecommunications branches are sent
to this center for basic training for the jobs that they are to undertake
on appointment to the departments concerned.
In addition, a telecommunications training center has been set
up in Bandung with the assistance of funds under the UNDP. The Special
Fund allocation to this project is US$1,156,000, including a Government of
Indonesia contribution towards local operating costs of US$65,800 and a
counterpart contribution in kind of US$1,096,040. The executing agency
is the International Telecommunication Union. The duration of the project
is three years.
The project aims to establish a telecommunications training
center to give a concentrated training program for senior technicians and
other technicians, and also to establish twelve Regional Telecommunications
Training Centers in Bandung, Djakarta, Semarang, Surabaya, Palembang,
Padang, i4edan, iMakassar, Bandjarmasin, Den Pasar, Amboina and Sukarnapura.
The training center in Bandung is to be a residential one with a capacity
of about 250 trainees whereas the ncgional centers will train 50 officials
at a time.
The training program aims at the training of in-service technical
personnel to cope with the immediate need to improve the telecommunications
services in Indonesia, also regular training courses for newTly recruited
technicians.  These courses are broadly classified as follows:
a.  Senior Technicians' Courses of siX months' duration, for
in-service senior technicians; some of the graduates will
be assigned to the Regional Training Units as instructors,
b. Technicians' Special Courses of four months' duration for
training of in-service technicians, and



ANNEX 
Page 4 of 4
a. technicians' Regular Courses of 12 months# duration for
new recruits. The entrance requirements for these courses
will be a certificate from a secondary school or equal
education.
Senior Technicians' Courses and the Technicians' Special Courses
will be held at the Bandung center. The Technicians' Regular Courses
will be held at the 12 Regional Training Units.
A total of 1,368 technicians, including 480 senior technicians,
288 in-service technicians, and 600 newly recruited technicians, are ex-
pected to complete training during the project period. One hundred and
fourty-four in-service technicians and six hundred newly recruited tech-
nicians will be in training at the end of the project period.
The training center is staffed by five UN experts with a project
manager, also provided by the Uii, in charge. Counterpart staff who would
ultimately manage the center have also been attached to the UN experts
by PERUM[EL.
In order to develop practical training courses, the experts, with
the assistance of the counterparts, will study the present condition of
telecommunications services and work procedures in Indonesia, and in this
connection give advice on improvements which, when adopted, should be
introduced in the courses as well as in the field by the PERUXTEL.
A range of teclhnical instructions forming a code of engineering,
operating and procedural instructions will be prepared by the center in
cooperation with PERUMTEL.
It is anticipated that during the project future needs for train-
ing and the required training organization will be studied, as also will
the assistance required for the establishment of a regular training program
for engineers, senior technicians, technicians, artisans, and traffic and
administrative staff.
A start has already been made and 200 officials were under train-
ing when the mission visited the center. The regional units have also
started functioning.
The scheme has been wiell conceived and is being implemented with
vigor.  It will undoubtedly produce good results and turn out competent
technicians.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
PEIEJSAAHAAN UMIUM TELEKCMUNJIKASI (PERUMTEL)
Decree of President No. 17 of 1967
Activities of Perum (Public Corporation)
'.          Me.Lin activities are to serve the public interests (production,
Ls r- -iti',n, consumption in general) and at the same time to make a
profit.  Activities are to be undertaken while paying the greatest
attention to efficiency, effectiveness, economic cost accounting principles
and management effectiveness and provide good service to shareholders.
2.          It has a juridicial status and is established by law.
3.          In general a PERUM must be active in the field of vital
services (public utility).
The Government can decide that those corporations having a
public utility sense need not be formed and managed as a State enterprise.
(e.g. an electricity company to supply a small city which can be financed
frcm private capital).
4.          A PERUM possesses its own name and assets and has liberty
to pursue its activities as a private enterprise, and to enter into
contracts and commitments with other companies.
5.          A PERUM can be prosecuted and execute prosecution against
others under law.
6.          The whole capital may be ovmed by the State but a PERUM may
obtain credits from domestic or foreign sources or raise funds from the
sale of public shares.
7.          In principle a PERUM is expected to be financially sound,
unless due to the policy of the Government,for instance on tariffs
and prices,this principle cannot be fulfilled.  However whatever the
Government policy on prices andltariffs, the system to be adopted is
the one referred to in item A4.- .
8.          A PERUM must be managed by a board of Directors.
9.          The staff are those of a State enterprise separately organized
outside the regulations valid to Government employees or those of private
limited enterprises.
10.         Organization, duties, authority, responsibilities of a
PERUM and to whom it should be responsible and other relative matters
are specially arranged in accordance with the law governing the establish-
ment of State enterprises.



Page G o:f 
11.         A PERUM need not necessarily be a public utility enterprise,
but, especially in regard to Public Utilities, if necessary, the Government
can determine the policy on tariffs for the benefit of the public
interest and for subsidies in accordance with Ah21.
12.         Annual reports incorporating balance of profit and loss and
the balance of assets must be submitted to the Government.
1/ A4.
The connection between the Government wJho supply and the
people (consumers) who receive a subsidy should be based on sound
financial and cost accounting principle, and every subsidy made
available to the people (consumers) in any kind or form must be
accounted for.



ANME 6
Page 1 of h
INDf01'ESIA
PERUSAHAPA UMU14 TELEKOMUI%TIKASI (PERUNTEL)
Management Consultants'
Draft Terms of Reference
The Perusahaan Umum Telekomunikasi is a State owned corporation
set up in April 1970 to provide and operate all public, domestic and some
international telecommunications services in Indonesia. Due to the war
and subsequent difficulties including the limited funds available for
rehabilitations and development and with the recent increase in economic
activity, there is a considerable unfilled demond for telecommunications
service. Improvements in quality of service are also urgently necessary.
At present there are some 137,000 telephone lines which, with a population
of 115 million, gives the very low telephone density of 0.11 per 100.
Local service is limited to the principal cities and towns and
long distance facilities are extremely restricted. During the next four
years the number of telephone stations will be increased by about 30% and
a baclbone microwave trunk system set up through certain of major islands.
The development program is being undertaken partly through bilateral and
government financing and partly through a proposed International Develop-
ment Association credit.
PERII4TEL has a staff of about 21,000 persons, but is essentially
a technical operating organization.
The Government of Indonesia has decided to give PERYIMIEL greater
autonomy as a State owned corporation, which should help to ensure a more
effective operation of the entity by allowing it to operate according to
modern commercial principles whereby timely operational and financial
information will be available to management for informed decision-making.
To facilitate the reorganization as a Perum and also improve
the operating entity's efficiency, it has been decided to engage manage-
ment consultants in an advisory capacity. Accordingly, the Government
solicits proposals to undertake an examination of the present organization
and operations.
It is highly desirable that the engagement of the consultants
be coordinated with the establishment of the Perum in order that the manage-
ment consultants may advise on the form of entity best suited to enable
PERUIvITEL to run as a comrercial organization. It may be advantageous for
the consultants appointed to make use of local associates for some of the
detailed research involved in the survey.
The consultants' examination should consider, but not limit itself
to, the following, it being realized that only after a review has been made
of the organization and its operations can the full extent of the consulting
assignment be established:



ANNEX 6
t?age 2 of 4
A. Advise on the form of entity, including the capital structure to be
adopted, best suited to enable it to be run as a commercial organiza-
tion, and its relations with Government within the terms set out in
the appropriate legislation. The arrangements to be adopted should
provide Government with all the information necessary to review and
assess the corporation's financial and technical performance.
B. Recommend on the degree of independence which the entity should possess
with particular reference to:
1. tariffs,
2. borrowing powers for both capital and other purposes,
3. salaries and wages, pension payments and gratuities,
4. engagement and dismissal of staff keeping in mind the conditions
prevailing in Indonesia.
C. Design the organization of PERIiTHT,both at Headquarters and in the
regions, define internal responsibilities, lines of delegation of
authority, allocation of duties, responsibilities and authorities of
each department, region, district and staff member, provide for intro-
duction of efficient systems procedures and controls throughout the
organization.
D. Develop a modern accounting system to provide reliable information for
management; this will involve:
1. reviewing and evaluating the present accounting practices and
routines in detail and revising and redesigning where desirable.
This would include all areas of general accounting, including
billing, collections, accounts receivable and payable, pur-
chasing and inventory control.
2. reorganizing the accounting staff to take responsibility for
the new procedure;
3. introducing internal management reports.
E. Develop an effective budgeting procedure for the planning and control
of future operatinns which would permit comparison of budgeted per-
formance against actual performance by area of responsibility.
F. Advise on planning procedures both as related to overall policies and
detailed responsibilities; consideration should be given to arrange-
ments which will provide both flexibility and continuity while at the
same time ensuring effective utilization of plant to desirable levels
of efficiency; the establishment of methods for deciding priorities
where all demands for service cannot be met; means of reporting project
progress; the values which should be attached to the various input
factors used in telecommunications planning, e.g. interest rate,
foreign exchange rate, depreciation rates, maintenance and operating
expenses, effects of devaluation, etc.
G. Establish internal audit routines to ensure adherence to proposed
operating methods and procedures for effective internal control.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
H. Advise on systems and prcedures and data processing -
1. work simplification techniques,
2. scheduling and dispatching work load&,
3. work standards and performance measurements,
4. staff orientation and training,
5. review operation to determine the applications that should
be placed on the computer.
I. Set up cost accounting procedures including a system of work orders
for properly allocating cost of construction programs.
J. Advise on the preparation of a physical inventory of fixed assets
using the latest techniques and information, the methods of appraising
and determining the current values of fixed assets, the appropriate
depreciation assumed to have accumulated and appropriate annual de-
preciation rates base on the lives of the various assets.
K. Advise on the establishment of depreciation schedules.
L. Develop procedures to enable continuing property records to be maintained.
X. Advise on tariffs including tariff structure and levels.
N. Examine procurement procedures and recommend on any adjustments which
may be necessary to ensure efficient operation of the stores and
procurement department.
0. Advise on the transfer of the staff to the corporation, salaries and
fringe benefits, productivity, proposals for improvements including
disposal of surplus personnel, authorities for appointments, promo-
tions, disposals, etc.
P. Advise on the development of manufacturing facilities for switching
and transmission equipment and cables.
Q. Advise on procedures for collecting and collating technical statistics
for the services provided and their performance.
R. Coordination with other agencies and services in order to ensure
maximum efficiency in the provision and use of telecommunications
facilities.
*S. Advise on a pensinn plan covering the PERUI4TEL staff.
*T. Advise on insurance practices that may prudently be adopted by PERUNTEL
to protect it against risk from loss/damage to its plant.
*Items subsequently added.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
The team of consultants might consist of:
a. a team leader who will work also with the chief
executive of the organization and be capable
of planning the organization.
b. a senior accountant capable of reorganizing the
accounting system following modern commercial
practices.
c. an accountant with telephone traffic and tariff
experience to review and recommend a realistic
tariff structure at appropriate level.
d. a systems and procedures specialist who is capable
of instituting systems and procedures including
any for data processing throughout the organization.
Selection and appointment of consultants will, it is anticipated,
commence in                              and it is hoped that the consultants'
survey will be commeiiced by _
The consultants' recommendations on which the reorganization will
be based should be submitted by               in order that implementing
action can commence in                 . The new accounting system should
be brought into operation with effect from _       _     ___ 
To facilitate the introduction and operation of the new organiza-
tion, Government intends to apply for assistance from the Colombo Plan
in the provision of three experts, one to advise on financial operations,
the second, business office and organizational procedures, and the third,
telephone operating procedures, rates and tariffs.
It is hoped that these three experts will be available by _
Further training of existing Indonesian accounts staff in modern accounting
principles will be necessary and is being arranged.
Government also hopes to obtain continuing assistance from the
Australian Government through the provision of an engineering design and
construction coordinating team of experts.
It is envisaged that the experts provided under the Colombo Plan, as
well as the key PERTIThEL stJff members who *will eventually operate the new
system, will work very closely with the management consultants.
Note: These draft terms of reference were discussed and agreed with the
Director General, This ho-wever does not preclude possible later
changes.



AINSEX 7
INDONESIA
PERUSAHAhM ULvIU TEIEKOMUNIKASI (PERUM EL)
Job Description
Financial Officer/Adviser
A qualified officer is required for a period of about three years
to assist management in the setting up and operation of the financial de-
partment with a view to financial control of the undertaking in accordance
with modern financial principles.
The officer should be a chartered accountant or university
graduate with a management or accounting degree. He should have served
5-10 years as a senior financial officer covering broad financial experience
in a public utility enterprise - preferably a telecommunications authority
of reasonable size.
He would be required to cooperate closely with management
consultants being employed to advise on the setting up of modern accounting
and management practices and to assist in training the staff of PERUIVEL
in the use and operation of the proposed systems and procedures.
Up to and inclusive the accounts of 171, he would be required to
audit PERUViMTELIs financial statements and operations and to indicate
deficiencies.
He must assist in the close coordination of work as between depart-
ments and other advisory experts so as to ensure the necessary exchange of
information between departments with a view to improving their operational
efficiency.
Following completion of the work of the management consultants, he
would be required to supervise the financial operations and train PERULEL
staff with a view to their assumption of full control as soon as possible.
During this period of service he would be required to advise
and assist with all aspects of the financial organization including:
1.  accounting operations involving billing, collections,
accounts receivable/payable, purchasing, inventory
control;
2.  management information system;
3. budgetary procedures including performance budgeting;
4. internal audit and control;
5. systems and procedures;
6. cost accounting/work order system;
7. depreciation schedules;
8. forecasts including cash flow;
9. asset evaluation.
(Note: This job description was discussed and agreed with the Director
General. This however does not preclude possible later changes.)



ANNEX 8
IITDCrESIA
PERUSAHAUIIT MUH  TELEKOMMtIKASI (PERUWrEL)
JOB DESCRIPTION
Operations and Traffic Procedures Adviser
Candidates should have at least five years experience in a
senior position in a telephone operating administration or company dealing
with traffic engineering and operating procedures. It is desirable that
they should hold an engineering degree.
Following appointment the candidate would initially cooperate
with managemsent consultants and the Operations Director in redesigning
and modernizing the telecommunications traffic section in order to fully
meet the requirements of efficient commercial operation.
He will subsequently work with the Operations Director in the
introduction and operation of the new procedures. He will be responsible
for the setting up of moderm telephone directory and information sections
and will cooperate with the administrative section in the introduction
of improved and more profitable arrangements for the production of the
telephone directories on a commercial basis.
He will be responsible for the introduction of adequate non-
engineering statistical records relating to the operation of the various
telecommunications services and in conjunction with the Business Adviser
for the development of procedures for the preparation of forecasts of
likely demand and growth trends.
He wiMl examine the procedures (including preparation of traffic
records and forecasts) for coordination with the Development and Construction
Director in connection with development of the network in order to ensure
maximum efficiency in planning new development.
He will review telephone operating methods and modernize pro-
cedures for calculation of operating staff requirements and will cooperate
with the Personnel Section in preparing the appropriate establishments.
He will review subscribers' complaint procedures and advise as necessary
on their improvement and modernization.
The appointment will be for a period of three years during which
Indonesian personnel should be fully trained to continue and further develop
the procedures established.
Hlote: This job description was discussed and agreed with the Director
General. This hovever does not preclude possible later changes.



ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN MAM TELEKUHUNIKASI (PERUML)
JOB DESCRIPTION
Organization, Administration and Personnel Adviser
Candidates should have a good knowledge of commercial and
business procedures and should preferably have worked in a telephone
operating administration or company. They should also hold a degree in
Business Administration or be a Chartered Secretary or equivalent.
Following appointment the Adviser would initially cooperate
with management consultants and the Administrative and Personnel Director
in redesigning and modernizing the secretarial, administrative and business
office organizations in order to fully meet the requirements of commercial
operation. He will subsequently, and in his secretarial administrative
function, work with the Administrative and Personnel Director in the intro-
duction and operation of new procedures related to the administrative
matters involved in the organization of the Perum and in the handling of
staff records and procedures.
He will be responsible to the Administrative and Personnel
Director and will cooperate with the Regional Directors in the setting up
and operation of business offices at appropriate locations. These will
handle all applications for service, prepare waiting lists, apply priorities,
issue service provision orders, and deal with subsequent inquiries made by
subscribers.
He will cooperate with the Financial Adviser and Finance Section
in redesigning collection procedures and procedures for handling overdue
accounts.
He will be responsible for the introduction of any additional
statistical records required for efficient operation of the Administrative,
Business Office and Personnel Sections.
He will cooperate with the Operations Department and particularly
the Operations Adviser in setting up and/or modernizing procedures for the
preparation of forecasts of likely demands for service and growth trends.
The appointment will be for a period of three years during which
time the Indonesian personnel should be fully trained to continue and
develop the procedure established.
(Note: This job description was discussed and agreed with the Director
General. This however does not preclude possible later changes.)



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
rBCOI'TSIA
PERUS.JHA1N Ulrihlv TELEK0IiJTIKASI (PERUiviTEL)
Samnary of  ---in Rupiah--------
Tariffs                          Extension
1.  Telephones - Local                          Main Subscriber    per 100 m
(a) Installation fees:
Local exchange area
Djakarta                               130,000           12,500
Bandung                                  60,000           12;500
Other cities                             23'500 to         1,600 to
15,830              75
Beyond exchange area
Djakarta - up to 10 km       per 100 m  12,500            12,500
- 10-20 km         --ditto--   1,500             1,500
- more than 20 km               4,000            4,000
Bandung  - up to 10 km                   10,000           10j000
- 10-20 km             I        1,500            1,500
- more than 20 km      it       4,000            4,000
Other    - up to 10 km          it         ,200            4,200
cities  - 10-20 km              "        5,880            5,880
- more than 20 km      "        9,100            9,100
(b) 11onthly charges
MIain    Extension   Extension Line
Local exchange area           Subscriber    Line    Additional 100 mi
Automatic                     280          140            21
MIanual - 500 LU and more     560          280            21
- less than 500 LU    350          175            21
Beyond exchange area          --Additional 100 m--
Automatic                   31.50        31.50
MIanual - all               31.50        31.50
(c) Call charges
Local, per call:  Rp 10
2.  Telephones - Long distance (Manual)
Unit                Zone            Distance        Rate - Ordinary
First 3 minutes           0               0-15 km                30
Additional minute         I              15-100 I?               84
One-third tariff         II             100-300 "               168
III            300-500 "               252
IV            500-750 "               336
v            750      " & over       420
Urgent rate: three times the ordinary rate
Long distance (STD): Rp 10 per pulse
Djakarta-Bandung - three second pulse



22I
rage 2 of 
3.  Telegraphs                                          in Rupiah------
(a)  Inland                                Ordinary         Express
First 10 words           So
Each additional word                   2.50              5
Press, per word                        0.50              1.50
(b) Telex
Teleprinter machines in most cases have to be provided by the
subscribers.
Installation fees for new subscriber: same as telephone in
appropriate class
Monthly charges
(a) Main subscriber lines (extension lines),
private connection including routine
service                                 Rp 1,750
(b)  Rental for PIERUIEL'  teleprinter
machine and accessories (complete)      Rp 2,450
Call charges - One pulse: Rp 14
Telex zone               Distance         Pulse period
I                   00-50 km            10d seconds
II                    50-300 "            30    I
III                   300-750 "             20    "
IV                  750      " & more     10    "



INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERUMTEL)
Pro Forma Balance Sheets: 1968-1973
(Rp Million)
ESTIMATED                       FORECAST
As of December 31:    1965       1969      1970      1971       1972      1973
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in service                                   18,256    19,202    21,814    27,878    33,735    38,658
Less:  depreciation reserve                         8 248     8,239      8,253     8 452      8 884     9,651
Net plant in service                                NO     10,963    13,561    I942        24,85     29,007
Plant under construction                              554      1,258     2,415     4,738      4,643     3,977
Total net fixed assets                           10,562    12,221    15,976    24,164    29,494    32,984
Current Assets
Cash                                                  240       300        623       496        513     1,543
Subscriber accounts receivable                      2,256     3,482      1,421     1,454      1,448     1,506
Inventories                                         1,236     1,282      1 461     1 885      2 300     2 645
Total current assets                              3,732     5,064      53,       3          415694
Less:  current liabilities                          1,775     2,062      2,152     2 397      2,598     2 829
Net current assets                                1,957     3,002      1                    1,663
TOTAL ASSETS                                12,519    15,223    17,329    25,602    31,157    35,849
LIAEILITIES
Equity
Government investment                              10,062    10,660      8,599     8,599      8,599     8,599
Subscribers' capital contributions                    200       421        882     1,609      2,459     3,692
Retained earnings                                     464      1 108       995-1  1260        1,600     1,774
Total equity                                     10,726    12 89    10,476    11                     1468    L   1065
Long-term debt                                                                   ,/
Projeot aid loans                                   1,793      3,034     6,165-    8,671    11,853    14,945
Government loans - IDA                                  -          -       688     3,463      4,646     4,839   - 
- Other                                -         -          -     2,000     2,000      2,000
Total long-term debt                              1,793     3,034      6        14,134    1,499    21X754
TOTAL LIABILITIES                           12,519    15,223    17,329    25,602    31,157    35,849   o -
Debt/Equity Ratio                                       14/86      20/80     40/60     55/45      59/41     61/39
y Reflects exchange reform (see footnote 1 of page 19).



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
rIDONESTA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERUMTEL)
Notes and Assumptions on the pro Forma Balance Sheet
Plant in Service and Depreciation
PERUMTEL does not maintain a fixed asset register and does not
know the value of its fixed assets, nor do its records allow the value tc
be ascertained. The present value of gross plant in service as of
December 31, 1968, is estimated at Rp 18.3 billion (US$48.3 million). Any
difference betwieen this estimate and the actual value will become relatively
insignificant in the course of the program, as net plant in service is
expected to triple by 1973. The depreciation reserve at the end of 1968
is estimated at Rp 8.2 billion (US$21.8 million) taking into account the
number of exchange lines, as well as other major categories of plant, and
the age, type and condition of the plant. The estimated depreciation
reserve is high--about 45% of gross plant in service--and is realistic
considering the age of the fixed assets and the fact that relatively
little plant has been added over the last ten years. Depreciation reserve
beginning with 1969 is based on depreciation calculated at a composite rate
of 5% on average gross plant in service taking into account estimated annual
plant retirement. This valuation is tentative; the consultants will review
PERUNTEL's fixed assets and formally establish their value.
Plant under Construction
It is assumed that the amount of plant under construction each
year will be 40% of the sum of the construction program of the current year
plus plant under construction of the previous year.
Cash
Cash is assumed to be about one month's cash operating expenses.
Subscriber Accounts Receivable
Cons-idering that Government rarely pays its telecommunications
bills and that some 30% of total subscribers are Government, it is assumned
for the years 1968 and 1969 that 75% of Government billings remain unpaid
and also 21% of the non-Government billings. The forecast assumes that,
beginning with fiscal year ending December 31, 1970, Government will main-
tain its accounts current, until 1973 never more than three months owing,
and thereafter two months, from the time billing is completed; and non-
Government subscribers will also owe the equivalent of twvo monthst billings,
but gradually will improve in each of the succeeding years. It is further



ANIEX 11
Page 3 of 3
assumed for purposes of this report that estimated Government accounts
overdue as of December 31, 1970, in the amount of Rp 2.1 billion (US$5.6
million) are written off and charged against Government investment under
equity.
Inventories
Inventories in 1968 and 1969 are assumed to amount to Rp 6,520
(US$17) per telephone, and, beginning with 1970, to increase proportion-
ately to gross plant in service.
Current liabilities
Current liabilities are assumed to be Rp 1.8 billion in 1968
and Rp 2.1 billion in 1969 related to the accounts receivable now overdue
and the estimated value of inventories. From 1970 onward, they are
assumed to be between 55% and 65% of current assets.
Equity
In establishing PERUMTEL's pro forma equity as of December 31,
1968, the retained earnings are taken as the amount of profit transferred
to retained earnings in 1968. Subscribers' capital contributions represent
installation charges in excess of the estimated cost of connecting a sub-
scriber, which is shown as revenue in the income statement. Government
investment serves as the balancing figure between the amount of total
assets, net of current liabilities, and the sum of long-term debt,
subscribers'capital contributions and retained earnings. From 1968 on,
subscribers' capital contributions and retained earnings reflect the
estimated installation charges accruing to subscribers' capital contribu-
tions and net profit transferred to retained earnings.
Long-term debt
Long-term debt as of December 31, 1968, consists of project aid
foreign exchange from Australia, Japan, the Netherlands and West Germany.
In actual fact, this long-texm debt has been made available and serviced
by Government and is considered as Government equity by PERUNTEL pending
further study by the consultants. For this report, this foreign exchange
is shown as long-term debt and being serviced on terms similar to a Bank
loan, which are 7% per annum, a term of 20 years, including a four-year
grace period.
May 25, 1970



INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMU1M TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERUMTEL)
Pro Forma Statements of Income:  1968-1973
(Rp Million)
ESTIMATED                        FORECAST
Year ending December 31:   1968        1969       1970       1971       1972      1973
REVENUES
Telephone
Rental and local calls                               1,578      2,250     2,350      2,564      2,828      3,185
Trunk and STD                                        1,458      1,935     1,968      2,209      2,582      3,065
International calls                                     50         65          7          3         3          3
Installation chargesl/                                   9         14         21        27         36         46
Total telephone revenues                        3,095   4264  4 7,803  6,2299
Telegraph and telex                                    2,041      2,242      2,421     2,615      2,824      3,050
Additional rev   ue - assumed tariff increase
and TV & PW L                                            -          -          -     1,238      3,028      4,863
TOTAL REVENUES                                  5,136     6,506      6,767      8,656    11,301    14,212
EXPENSES
Staff expenses                                         1,545      2,250      2,925     3,803      4,944      6,427
Maintenance and other costs of operation               1,460      1,536      1,754      2,260     2,753      3,168
Depreciation                                             900        936      1,025     1,242      1,540      1,810
TOTAL EXPENSES                                  3,905      4,722     5          7,305      9,237        405
NET OPERATING INCOME - before interest                   1,231      1,784      1,063      1,351      2,064      2,807
Less:  interest - Project aid loans                          70       174        346        524        728        957
- Government loans - IDA                     -         -         41        226        477       567
- Other                 -          -          -       120        240        240
Net Profit                                      1,161      1,610        676       481        619      1,043
Government taK/                                           697        966        304        216        279        469
Dividend payment                                              -         -          -          -          -       400
Balance transferred to retained earnings                   464        64T4       372        265    __340_     -174
Average net pl4Ct in service                             9,597    10,486    12,262    16,494    22,139    26,929
sate of return-                                          12.8%      t7.O%       8.7%       8.2%       9.3%     10.4%
Operating ratio5/                                           76,.      73%        84%        84%        82%        80O
l/ Only the portion of charges to cover installation cost cf telephones is shown as revenue; remaining portion
is credited to "subscribers' capital contributions".
2/ Television (TV) anc private wire (PW) revenue is assumed in 1973 to be Rp 200 million.                               H
3/ Profit tax paid to Govemrneent - 60% in 1968 and 1969 and 45% beginning with 1970.                                   0 e
/ Ratio of net operating income before interest to average net plant in service.
g/ Ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues.
Mav l. 1970



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
_1OW-1ESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERUNITEL)
Notes and Assumptions on the Pro Forma Statement of Income
Revenues
Additional revenue from assumed tariff increases is shown to
accrue beginning during 1971.
In considering the present revenue position, it is of interest
to note that the Djakarta area provides about 50% of total telephone
revenues. In forecasting likely revenues, details were obtained of present
revenues for Djakarta subscribers as a whole and individual exchanges with
a breakdown between rental, installation, local trunk, and international
categories.  Information was also obtained regarding present STD traffic
levels and revenues per subscriber for the Djakarta-Bandung route and the
overall revenue figures for the Indonesian telephone network as a whole,
together with the tariffs applied in the various areas. From these
figures, it was possible to analyze existing revenue per subscriber per
month into the following main three groups:
Djakarta      Other automatic      Manual
subscribers      subscribers      subscribers
- - - -     - - -  Rupiah - - - - - - - - - -
Rental and local calls        3,703             1,177              652
Long distance                 1 760               848              848
Total                    512_6             2,025            1,500
Revenues for international calls have not been included as it
was separately calculated that, up to December 1974., there will be an
accrued deficiency on IT&T's profit entitlement under the agreement (see
Annex 1), and no revenues will therefore accrue to PERUMTEL during the
forecast period in respect of the satellite international service. Certain
very limited revenues will be obtained from the remaining HF and VHF
services and these have been included.
Table 1 of this annex was prepared showing actual connections
and conversions, anticipated under the program and divided into the various
installationi charge and revenue groups as listed above. From this forecast,
revenues from rentals and local calls at existing rates were computed.
Sums accruing in respect of installation and conversion charges were also
computed from this schedule. In the case of the long distance revenue
calculation, and based on experience in other developing countries,
together with the information available for the Djakarta route, an initial



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
originated traffic figure per subscriber per annum of three erlang (180
minutes of trunk caU time), increasing by 15% per annum, was used.
IApplying tle prOsOnt pattern of traffic in the various distance/rate
categories gives an expected average monthly STD revenue per subscriber
for 1970 of Rp 1,793. However, for conversion of existing subscribers,
there would be a reduction, again based on distance/rate categories, of
Rp 587 in respect of calls previously obtained via the operator.
Forecast long distance revenues were based on these figures as
related to the program for extension of new STD service to existing sub-
scribers, and the provision of additional subscribers under the program.
No increases in charges for long distance service have been allowed for
as the present urgent rate, which is being applied to this service, is
already fairly high as related to rates in other countries.
Telegraph and telex revenues are assumed to increase at an
annual rate of 8% allowing for the likely diversion of telegraph traffic
due to expansion of STD services.
Installation charges have been forecast on the basis of the
estimated number of telephones to be installed during the year with the
charge assumed at Rp 2,000 per connection.
Expemses
Staff expense figures for 1969 provided by PERUMTEL were accepted
even though they were on the high side in comparison to telecommunications
operations in other developing countries, which is due to PERUMTEL's lack
of automatization. Staff expenses are assumed to increase by 30% each year
beginning with 1970 in order to provide for higher wages and a pension plan.
Maintenance expense has been taken as 8% of gross plant in
service in the previous year. Normally, maintenance for a telecommunica-
tions operation will vary between 5% and 7% of gross plant in service;
however, due to PERUMTEL's situation where the majority of plant is old
and more maintenance is required, 8% is assumed.
Depreciation expense is assumed at a composite rate of 5% on
annual average gross plant in service; tlis is normal.



INDON6.$IA
PEESAM.2   5  ~THLKOPMJOCF  T. (PEROSU8EL)
Anelysis of Additional subscriber Conetions ad Installation Fees Collected -1970-1973
Net
Taken up    capacity         Subscribers Added end Cconerted - 1970          Subscribers Added and Converted - 1971            Subscribers Added and Converted - 1972            Snbscribens Added wsid Converted - 1913
Total     by manual   avilable        -Ins-taation Group              R-vu ...alain   rop                             R*swnu.           Install*tim Gr.sup             Reeu__t_1to   r.Rvo 
capacity  subscriber  for ne.              1    2                     1ro                               3 F                                1    2                       G                                 _I_3             Go~.ups
IvaU.llbe      E.hw                 or-ided  conversions subscribers          M0m   =12 ~                                                  ~F~~                             1J.      M=                                       U 1 2M           ME 
Autonat ic
i970        Om bir (DJK)           3,000O                   3,000           900      -       -     900*    -       -        900       -      -      g0oo     -               600       -      -      6000*     -       -        600      -              600a          
Djakarta, Kota (DJA)  4,000                    4 ,000        1,200       -      - 1,2000    -          -     1,200       -      -   1,200       -       -  -              -       -     800 *     -        -       600                     4  000        
Djatinegwa (DJK)       lcO0O                   1,000           400       -              000-       -           200       -      -      200*      -  -            200                    200 *     -        -       200       -             200*      -
Jogjakarta             3,000      i,700        1,300             -            4 00      - 2,100 (1,700)          -       -    260        -    260*                 -      -     260       -    260*        -         -       -    260        -    260" 
Tji-sb.n               3,000           -       3,000             -       -    900        -   900       -         -       -    700        -    7000                              600        -    680*-      -         -       -    Se         -    580* 
Bandjareasi.           3,000      1,400        1,600o                -        500        - 1,900 (1,400)         -             00             4 000     -                 -    60               4 00*      --                -    320        -     30  
Miscellaneous     ~~600                    600           600       -            600*_ -          -         -       -      -        -          -  -         -                    -           -        -
TI ial         17,600       3,100       145(           3.100         1,0    3,100 4,0.01
1971        Paeoringgu (01kL)         900           -         900                                                           370       -      -      370*     -       -        270      -       -     270.                       1  l0     -      -      180s      - 
SJipi  (0JK)           1,000                   1,000O                                                          300       -             3000                      300       -      -      308*     -        -       200       -       -     2000      -       -
sesaraug               0,000       3,300       6,700                                                              -1,40D                 -4. ,700 (3,300)          -  1,540       -        -  1,5400                  -    A6o                     9 - 0o 
Surab.aj Sp            1,000         360         660                                                                   200       -       -    560   (360)          -    340       -       .    360       ---               130       -              30 
Bandung S  7,000  -  2,000                                                          -   ~~~~      ~ ~~~~~~~~             ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~600 -  -    600*    -  700 - -    700*          4  00     -        -    60 
Ojeebi                 1,000         800         200-                                                                    -     60        -    860 (800)                -  -      40        -      0                 -              4 0       -       0 
Medan                 4600040(                                                                               1,200       -       -       -1L200                  920       -      -        -    920                Bo8o      -       -       -     800       -
Total            17,900      4,660       13,440                                                         4,170  2,200  1,620   2,970  9,180) (4,660)
L972        Magelang               1,000)          -        1,000                                                                                                               -      -    300        -     300        --                -    200        -    200       -
Malang  4,000  -  4,000  ~    ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~      ~       -1,200         -        -1,200                          Boo80     -             Boo,0 
B4aldng T6,000                     -,0         6,000                                                                                                                    150       -        -1,650  (1,500)           -     100       -       -     1000 
Bandongaan T            ,000       1,0            500                                                                                                              -       -    300        -    3000       -         -       -    200        -     2100P
Tilaandsc ss1,000                    34        1,00                                                                                                              190       -      -        -    530    (360)       130       -      - -            130      -
BllAtjen               1, 000       360          6670                                                                                                              -            5 20       -    780    (260)                 -    350        -     350
Menad                  260                                                                                                                                         -       -0 ,6o680       -1,680  (1,000)           -       -    320            1,320       -
.5 ur.b.2a00  1,000                       1,600 2-8  1,620                                                                                                                   -       -  6,620  (5,200)               DO100     -        -1000
Total            21,0        9,300       13,300                                                                                                          3.280  5,350  2.980   2.170 17.?h   (8.300)
1973         Kebajran (DJK)         3,000           -       3,000                                                                                                                                                               600       -             609       - 
Tandjmsgpriok (0JK)   2,00             -       2,000                                                                                                                                                                o                      6O-
TIb.t (DJK)  4,000  -  4,000                                                                                                                                ~~~~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~1,200  - -   1,200* - -
TCebdt 2D               , 000      -,0         6,000                                                                                                                                                                 -    300        -       -1,300*(1,000)
Tja10                  2,000       1,0          1,000                                                                                                                                                                -    600        -       -     600*      -
Tolem                  2,000 (K)h      -       2,000                                                                                                                                                             1,200       -       - 1,200          -      -
Tje.baepr ib( 32)        000   1,60 ,000                                                                                                                                                                              -      -    600         -  1,6000(1,000)
Rodndog T              2,00            -       2,000                                                                                                                                                                       7   00        -         300*      -
Djmebi                 1,000           -       1,000                                                                                                                                                                 -       -    670              30,60 (100
P.kanbrau              2,000       1,000        1,0-                                                                                                                                                                         -    60          -  1,680 (1,000)
Pontianak              2.600       1,00        _j                                                                                                                                                                                   8             ,8   100
Total            27,600       6.000      23.600
Manual
1973        l.altiga                  340           -          340                                                                                                                                                               -        -     100        -       -    100
Bondowcso                310           -          310                                                                                                                                                                -       -     10         -       -    100
Lumadjang                360           -          360 o                                                                                                                                                                             0                 -    100
KUpang                   120           -          520                                                                                                                                                                -       -     200,       -             0
TOtal             1,30            -       1,530                                                                                                                                                            6,610   6,9L0  4,620   5.480 14.020 (3,500)
iot-:  1.    'a,siv    0crounded  p -r don t~, near..st m.,t  f2 ton.
2.  r  di  '-e  TD f.ci! itie- arc aailable.



INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERUMTEL)
Pro Forma Statements of Sources and Applications of Funds:  1970-1973
(Rp Million)
Year ending December 31:      1970       1971        1972       1973        Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net operating income before interest                       1,063      1,351       2,064      2,807       7,285
Depreciation                                               1,025      1 242       1,540      1,810       5 617
Total internal cash generation                               2,t3T7  3                                  ,oO
Borrowings - Project aid loanal/                             2,646      2,506       3,255      3,221      11,628
- Government funds - IDA_-/                        688       2,775      1,183         193      4,839
- Other2/                         -      2,000           -          -       2,000
Installation charges                                           461         727        850      1,233       3,271
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                  5,883     10,601       8,892      9,264      34,640
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Construction program                                         4,780      9,430       6,870      5,300      26,380
Debt service
Interest - Project aid loans                                 346        524         728        957       2,555
- Government loans - IDA                             41        226         477        567       1,311
- Other                           -        120         240        240         600
Amortization - Project aid loans                               -           -         73         129        202
- Government loans - IDA                         -           _          -           _
- Other                       _     -                - _
Total debt service                                         307        870        17  8     T89         73 
Government tax                                                 304         216        279         469      1,268
Dividends                                                        -           -          -         400        400
Increase in working capital other than cash                     89         212        208         172        681
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                              5,560     10,728        8,875     8,234      33,397
Cash surplus (or deficiency)                                     323        (127)        17       1,030      1,243
Cash at beginning of period                                      300         623        496         513        300
Cash at end of period                                            623         496        513       1,543      1,543
Times debt service covered by internal cash generation           5.4         3.0        2.4         2.4
1/ Debt incurred is assumed to be serviced on terms similar to present Bank loans, i.e., 74 per annum for 20          H
years including a grace period of 4 years.
2/ Loans are assumed to be serviced at 124 per annum for 20 years including a grace period of 4 years.
May 15, 1970



ANNEX 14
IND01ESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMM TELEKOMUNKASI (PERUITEL)
Telephone Density Comparisons
Indonesia and Adjoining Countries
Telephone Density
Country                             Per 100 Populatiqn
Indonesia                                 0.15
Malaysia                                  1.42
Philippines                               0.59
Singapore                                 5.37
Thailand                                  0.30



AINEX 15
Page 1 of 2
UIDCITESIA
PERUSAHAAIN1 UNTJT TE .14KOVIUNIKASI (PERU TTEL)
Basic Data as at December 1969
and ft^r 196,-1973 Levelornent Program
1.  Plant and Facilities in Se'rvice
Number of telephones of all kinds                            196,661
Number of main subscribers lines                             136,761
Percentage of automatic lines                                    48%
Number of manual exchanges                                      -501
Total capacity of manual exchanges                            96,975
Number of automatic exchanges                                   - 25
Total capacity of automatic exchanges                         79,300
Number of long distance                                         -
circults (line, carrier, VHF & microwave)                   1,203
Total mileage of long distance
circuits
- radio telephone                                     100,500 ch/km
- open wire carrier                                   112,760
- microwave                                            34,o80o
- VHF                                                  12,003
Total number of HF radio stations (PERUNTEL)                     162
11    111  11    11        11   (private)                      530
Number of telegraph offices                                      720
Number of countries with which teLephone service
directly operates                                              15
Number of countries with which telegraph service
directly operates                                              11
2.  Staff
Total staff                                                   21,365
Telephone staff, estimated                                    16,365
Telegraph staff, estimated                                     5,000
Number of staff per 1,000 telephones                              86



AUI'1EX 15
Page 2 of 2
3.  Proposed Expansion during 1969-1973 Program
Proposed yearly growth during program (DELIs)                   5.3
Proposed increase in telephone lines                          40,299
"       it      automatic telephone lines               59,659
Proposed total increase in stations                           64,999
Proposed increase in number of long distance circuits            991
Telephone and telegraph network construction
costs                                         lillion US$ 73.65
Telephone network construction costs
(including long distance)         .              "         70.67
Telephone network construction costs
(excluding long distance)                              "  36.95
Cost per telephone line added
excluding long distance                                 US$ 917
* This compares eith a CCITT average for ten administrations of $M30.
The figure in Indonesia is high due to the major conversion program.



INDONESIA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERUMTEL)
Number of Exchanges Line Units
Main Subscriber Lines and Extension Lines in the Various Islands of Indonesia
as on Lecember 31st. 1968.
Telecom                   A U T O M A T I C                          C . B.                                 L. B.                            T O T A L
District
Exch.    L.U.      DEL       E.L.      Exch.   L.U.       DEL        E.L.   Exch.    L.U.       DEL       L.B.      Exch.   L.U.      DEL        E.L.
I- Java           6     29,000   25,688    8,274         -       -         -          -        12    1,460        952        384     18    30,460   26,640    18,658
II - Java          2      4,000    3,765       891       10    10,440    7,748       5,228      73    8,205      5,513      1,837     85    22,645   17,026        7,956
III - Java          3      9,000    7,056    1,631        14    18,150   14,663       6,298      81    9, 814     6,280      2 163     98    36,234   27,999    10,092
VIII - Java          3      8,500    7,204    6,337         6      4,460    3,085        820      70    9,390      6,158      2.371      79    22,350   16,447       9,528
TOTAL                                                                                                                           280   111,689   881112    36,234
IV - Sumatra       2      4,000    3,520    2,225         -       _         _                   30    5,375      4,071      1,249     32      9,375    7,591       3,474
V - Sumatra       2      4,000    2,698       414        -       -         _          _        28    4,249      2,674        568     30      8,249    5,372         982
VI - Sumatra       2      6,600    6,587    5,426         4      1,460       929       391      65    8,190      5,895      2,560      71    16,250   13,411       8,377
TOTAL                                                                                                                           133    33,874   26,374    12,833
VII - Sulwesi       2      6,000    4,643    1,888         2      1,920    1,521        357      37    41290      2,555        317      40    12,210    8,719       2,562
II - Ealimantan   -        -         -        -           1        640      105         37      20    5,243      3,789      1,375      21     5,883    3,894       1,412
X - Nusatenggra  1       1,600    1,337       354        -       -          -         -        32    4,910      2,875        590      33     6,510    4,212         944
XI - Maluku        1      1,600       713        96       -       -          -         -         5       730       437        177       6     2,330    1,150         273
XII - West Irian   _ -                - _       _          _          _       _                  11    2,300      1,968        955      1      2,300    1,968         955
TOTAL               23     74,300   63,211   27,536         37    37,070   28,051    13,131    464   63,426    43,167    14,546    524   174,796  134,429    55,213
Note:- C.B. = Central battery; L. B. - Local battery.



UlDCUzSIA
2± rIL:iAJ U.I UMUM TEEK0 IKASI (PE   EL)
Growth in Exchange Capacity, uonnected Subscribers & Stations, & Likely Growth in Exchange Capacity
Increase                            Increase
Available            over                                over
exchange capacity        previous    Connected subscribers   previous  Excnange   Number of    Total
Year     Manual Automatic  Total  year - %  Manual Automatic Total year -    f rill - %   extensions   stations
December:
1963     81,179   32,d07  113,96          -          -        -        -      -        -6
1964     64,926   46,400  133,326      17.0          -        -         -     -        -
1965     90,207   4b,430  138,637       4.0          -  45,697         _      _                      _
1966      96,067   63,700  159,767     15.2          -  54,871         -      -                      _       
1967     97,512   6d,700  166,212       4.0     72,040   57,92h  129,964      -        -        55,403      185,367
1966    100,496   74,300  174,796       5.L     71,21b  63,211  134,429   3.4        77         55,213      159,642
1969     96,975   79,300  176,275       0.81    71,200   65,561  136,761   1.7        78        59,900      196,661
1970      93,475   96,900  190,375      8.0    68,100   73,560  141,660   3.6         74        65,300      206,960
1971     88,475  114,500  20J,275       6.8    63,640   85,610  149,450   5.5         74        71,200      220,650
1972      79,975  136,400  216,J75      6.4    55,340  105,720  161,060   7.6         74        77,600      238,660
1973      77,505  164t,000  241,505    11.6    51,640  125,220  177,060   9.9         74        84,600      261,660
Notes:-
1.  Assuming 78% exchange fill from 1963-1966 when number of connected subscribers was not available, the average
subscriber grovwth 1963-1969 has been 8.9%, say 9% per annum.
2.  Average subscriber growth 1968-1973 based on PERUMTELIs program of development is 5.3% per annum.



00.0 - ~ i lli-t 05. Dolla-
S-y.r  If Attla  Prr,.-  -ota 1969 - 193Z
1969                                   1970                                            1971                                                  1972                                                           1973                                             TotAl
NMaU1    Prolat                  Nall    ProJct   World                  K.t'1    fInSOOt    World    Add. Rp.                   Nt t'l    P-oJect   World  Add. , lIp               Ot'        P80*-       -old      Add. 8p.         - 1.0ta
No.                   OTo                                Wodgt   Aid '68    Total         00d5t   kid -69   8.0k    Total         .odOat   Ald f7 a~           -fo  W.8B.    tota         Boast.   Aid 'T    Bak   fo- 0.0.    T-ta           809608    Aid '72   tack         for 01..      World         TotaI           88.        $
1)2)  Op.  8   70.        HP.         $        $        70.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.      $      r.~~~qao-t                                            ra.oa.t                                                 88'OO           .0
1)  Rp.  $  RP.        RP.        $                 RP. ~~~~~~~~~~~P-      $          $                   R~~~P.        82.       0                              R Op        Rp.        $         9I)$                                  88.
I. C,t..cttoo  local 8.1.P0    .081.0g
tslspAon  .AcAg.                                   0.70        3.18      1.78        0.28      6.50      0.87     2.01        0.7)      6.50      0.60      0.24        2.89          0.81      6.10       -       0.19       3.31        8.82         -       7.06                      0 .03        3.50           13.).2    25.96
2.  Eoti.ta  of oolatdw  0B/11. ..1
ScAhka  aad clhaasvO  of LB W0 0a
--hl.".a.                                           -           -         .           -         -         -        -           -                   .         -           -           8.88       8.16      .         -        0.16         0.00                 0.186                      -          8.1).            0.28     0.32
11.  f0-.laotl.- of 0osg dlAoc   8.
Moa.,..       t, r    ig--
1.  lari  c.swtt.0    01~.2. oar
W  rat  naa.                                        0.3.                 0."0       0...        -         -       0.08         0.1.0    0.93                            o  .T6        0.03      0.8        -                   .37         0.09        -        ..0          .                        0.13             i.86     I."3
2.  W0 -adio 0888018                                    8.380                 0.30       8.12       1.88              0.2.9        0.87     0.60                             D  .29       0,07       1.88      .                  0.67         0.12         -        .80         .             -8.1                        1.70     1.?5
3.  Tctpa.OtWsoilk4      0Aya1"0                               -               .         8.01       0.10     0.17     0.10          .                  1.27     0.1)         8.68           .         -       0.08      8.0)      0.06-                              .- -                -                                 0.76      1.60
2.. Otor.o, 7... . 8.10                                 0.67       2.2a0      1.15       0.62.      1.20      .       0.97         0.10       .                              D .10        0.06        -        .                    .07 5                                                                                  2.3?     2.0
7.  Wloa-s  71. 3-tr    a. B-7.                         8.08       0.35       0.19        .                                         .         .                                                                          -          .                                                                       -               .19     0.39
b. la0.-iat                 .          -          .         0.47        .        .08     8.79                             &  .70   1.38         3.16           .         -       2-.70     8.32       i.26        8.8                  8.10'                     0.68         8.21            5.62     8.60
6 89.. .saa                                            .                                -          -                              .         .                  -..                                            .        - t0                                       87       -gg.3                                         .3       87
M.  las   t:olw.o  of tooM.ap
2.  hOsi0Ol4a   f 12
3.  ~8O.   t        .      s ti .                                                        0.88                0.08     0.03         0.16     0.60       0.19     0.11         0.78         0.09       0.60     0.25      8.03       0.37        0.88                 0.28                      0.03         0.09            1.13      1.80
6.   s..Ja.asaf wlt-08 
O-ttt.    It-1.. 
7.  868b101tt10  of ta1015a.Otff88i
6.  70ss.d0a o  S.a.".h   0111ssw          2
offi 10.088  -..    .sOtokda  o.A..)
IV.   CofltO.tl   of baL1dlap/Offt-a
1.  h11d2egs~~~~~~ff8oa. ~~0.07                                 0.07       0.02        .        .       0.02         0.21       .                              0.21          0.21                                    0  .21      0.012        -        -                                     0.12            0.61 
toaaaoa.                                .          -~        ~     ~    ~    ~ ~~~~~ .                            o       .25                              0.27          0.20                                    0.25         0.25                                                        0.27            0.75
3.   q.21;t./par  par  for ..dt.-..                               .          .          .          .        .         .           ..                            ....                                                   .          .
V.  !AaOatg f.1l1t2.a f. t-aO08a  ad
1.   a8dto.9ffto.d8a..as                                          -          .                                        .          0.208                                     0.20          0.17                                    0.15        0.15         .                                   .0.17                       0.70
32.   Prla.   0.31a5 t                                               .         - f                             .                   0.19                                      0.17          0.18 0                                  0.10        0.10         .                                                .0             2. a37 
= t.Oo..                                                         -                               .00 -          -              0                                         0.02          0.02        .        .                        0.02   09-                                                         0.02            0.06
6.loa  tIlitig 000                                  0.0)                  0.01        -          -         .                              -          -                                                                                       --                                                                         0.01
II.   C1..aa381.0 .~~~~~~~~.0ra..      .          . ~~~      -         0.02                o .60     0.27        0.01       -         .20                  0.09                                                                                                                                           o                     .36  0.10
80. Oola.oo                                                  -          -          .-.                           0.10     0.02.         -         .        0.60       -          0.075                             0.30      .        0.01          -.                   -                                                     0.30      0.80
11 :  p I'l 11 199,101-1,0.01                0.87      3.81)       i.65      7.00      aP       6.72         2.29     6.63       7.31 A   1.07         9.63          1.106     0.61      3.13    0.057      6.87 3       1.09         -_402                             0.91          5.303         30.193   69.61
1M     RR t  170 A0 187019
1)This lIst sA-s a-a11al  Rip Prc0o-        al. 00dt..
'7lot.      0.0 W 00 prIce 100.0 arl -69 akd Aasd .0
Go.--...t fi-Ia b0.t 0   n p-atic-  -.1d0 apl, W
$3IMLt' ficl- par
3)  Inolodd  -tolltrcO    Of. its 1S$
6)Ic 00  10 llatoa-   B0d4t
5) SOu  roo.. old forldl- &-cOops-
6)  1oc1oltl roth-r dscsIpsat. -0Js-o 
7)1  -5-0d World 8.0  L-O  1. aOticipl-  Ao 1901.



ANNEX 19
r'age I of 2
I;D'ESIA
PERUSAELAI UIZZi TZIEKO0711TIX'SI (PERUNTEL)
Detailed Provisions Covered in the Project
A. Automatic Exchanges - Local
1971- Laying, jointing and termin'tizg locel distribution cables
and interoffice cables in the Djakarta locql arca.
B. Long Distance Microwave System
1. Buildings - access roads
1970 - Djakarta - Palembang - 11 units
Palembang- Djambi      -   9 units
1971  - Djambi   - Padang       -   7 units
Padang   - M4edan      - 15 units
2. Equipment Installations
First half 1972   - Djakarta  - Palembang - 14 stations
Secand half 1972  - Palembang - Djambi    - 10 stations
Djambi    - Padang    -  8 stations
Padang    - Medan      - 19 stations
Commissioning successively frcm July 1972 to June 1973.
C. Long Distance Tropo Scatter System
1. Buildings and Roads
1970 - Surabaya - Islands - Bandjarmasin
2. Equipment Installation
1971/72   - Commencement late 1971, installation
commissioning mid 1972
D.  Multiplexing Equipment for the following sections:
Djakarta - Palembang   - Microwave super group and channelling equipment
Palembang- Djambi       -                     -do-
Djambi - Padang         -                     -do-
Padang 4iedan           -                     -do-
Surabaya -Bandjarmasin - VHF scatter group and channelling equipment



ANmEX 19
Page 2 of 2
E. Telegraphs and Telex
1.  Equipment Installation
1971  - Medan exchange           - 100 lines
Den Pasar exchange      -  20 lines
1972  - Palembang exchange       -  20 lines
Bandjarmasin exchange  -  20 lines
2.  Circuits through V.F.T. Systems
a)  Increase on Microwave
1971   - Djakarta - Den Pasar   - 3 nos.
1972   - Djakarta - Palembang   - 6 nos.
1973   - Djakarta - Medan         - 12 nos.
Medan - Padang          - 9 nos.
b)  Increase on Tropo Scatter
1972   -  Surabaya - Bandjarmasin- 4 nos.
F.  Trunk Switching Centers
1. Buildings
1971   - Medan
Palembang
2. Equipment Installation and Commissioning
1972   -  Palembang
Djah;arta
1973     iHedan
Padang



INDOflES IA
PERUSAHAAN UMUM TELEKOMNJIKASI (PERUMTEL)
Summnry of Annual Disbursements for the Project and Program
Rp 326:  $1 in 1969
Additional                                         Rp 378:  $1 in 1970-73
Provisions            provisions
covered              necessary                                Additions
by Credit             for Project        Total Project         for Program          Total Program
Total                 Total               Total                 Total                Total
Year           1/ $ M   Rp B   p B             Rp B  Rp B   $M   Rp  B  Rp B       $ M      B  Rp B    $M       pB   p B
1969                       -       -      -      -      -         -         -      5.85  1.91  3.81    5.85  1.91  3.81
1970             1.82   0.58  1.27      0.10  0.02  o.o6   1.92  0.60  1.33        6.90  0.85  3.45    8.82  1.45  4.78
1971              7.34   1.85  4.63     1.20  0.21  o.66   8.54  2.06  5.29        5.43- 2.08  4.14   13.97  4.14  9.43
1972             3.13   0.57  1.75          -     -     -   3.13  0.57  1.75       8.61  1.86  5.12   l1.74  2.43  6.87
1973             0.51       -  0.19         -        -       0.51     -  0.19      8.52  1.89  5.11    9.03  1.89  5.30
Totals:    12.80   3.00  7.84      1.30  0.23  0.72  14.10  3.23  8.56    35.31  8.59 21.63   49.41 11.82 30.19
Total 1970-1972 (including the retention payments of $510,000)                                         35.04  8.02 21.27
1/ M: Million; B: Billion.
The proposed three-year project (1970-1972) forms part of PERUMTEL's on-going Five-Year Development Program
(1969-1973). The program's cost is estimated at US$81.5 million, including a foreign exchange component of US$h9.1t
million. The estimated cost of the proposed project amounts to US$22.6 million and includes a foreign exchange
expenditure of US$14.1 million, of which the Association would provide US$12.8 million. The cost of the works
tto be constructed during the project period, as part of the Development Program, would amount to US$56.3 million,
including a foreign exchange component of US$35 million.
0



ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 3
iZOOESIA
PERUSAHAAN U1UM TELEKOMUNIKASI (PERRU4TEL)
Incremental Financial Rate of Return
1. Capital Cost of Project
The capital cost of the project has been taken from the invest-
ment schedule shown in Annex 20, including the provisions for contingen-
cies, but excluding those for consultants.   Initial  provisions
of multiplexing equipment will take care of estimated require-
ments for five years after completion, i.e., until 1978. Further
provisions of multiplexing and switching equipment will be necessary in
1978 and 1983/84 at an estimated cost of $750,000 in 1978 and $900,000
in 1984 (see Table, para. 4).
2. Operating Expenses Attributable to Project
On PERUMTEL's present plant, operating costs amount to about
19% of assets at cost. The proposed project will eliminate items of
plant on which maintenance costs are now heavy, and we estimate that the
net effect, that is the incremental increase in operating costs due to
the project less the operating savings made by the project on the old
equipment, will be an increase in operating costs amounting to 7% of the
capital value of the project. Operating costs exclude depreciation and
income tax.
3. Revenues Attributable to Project
Taking into account the anticipated growth in telephone and
telex subscribers and making an assessment of the upsurge in calling
rates which the project will make possible, it is estimated that the
revenues will increase in line with the follovingtable.



AMNEX 21
Page 2 of 3
Sumatra              Private                                Rupiah
Year   link    Kalimantan   wire    Cable  TV  Telex   Total   Billion
- --- - UTthousands  -  -  -
1971        -         -           -     338     -   36       374    0.141
1972      286        89           -     802     -   72    1,249      0.472
1973      572       178         300   1,o52   300   90    2,492      0.942
1g714    1,50       228         600     625   600   90    3,593      1.358
1975    1,803       277         660     625   600   90   44,055      1.533
1976    2,215       342         726     625   600   90   14,598      1.738
1977    2,688       413         798     625   600   90    5,214      1.971
1978    3,228       1499        878     625   600   90    5,920      2.238
1979    3,854       592         966     625   600   90    6,727      2.543
1980    4,465       685      1,063      625   600   90    7,528      2.846
1981   14,910       757       1,169     625   600   90    8,151      3.081
1982    5,14o6      837       1,286     625   600   go    8,844      3.343
1983    5,953       917      1,415      625   600   90    9,600      3.629
1984    6,551     1,006       1,556     625   600   90   10,1428     3.942
1985    7,212     1,104      1,712      625   600   90   11,343      4.288
1986    7,937     1,210       1,883     625   600   90   12,345    14.666
1987    8,726     1,335       2,071     625   600   90   13,2h47     5.083
1988    9,6014    1,469       2,278     625   600   90   114,666     5.544
1989   10,570     1,620       2,506     625   6oo   9o   16,011      6.052
14.       The following table presents the cash flow attributable to the
project for 20 years including the three-year construction period. A
residual value has been given to major items of plant with assumed longer
economic lives.



ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 3
ilevenue     Additional
Capital     Residual   Attributable   Operating
No.  Year   Investment       Value     to Project     Expenses    Net Flow
-Rp Billion - - - - - - - - - - - -
1    1970     1.080             -           -              -       -1.080
2    1971     5.200             -       0.141         0..10        -5.169
3    1972     1.750             -       0.472         0.281        -1.559
4    1973     0.190             -       0.942         0.575         0.177
5    1974         -             -       1.358         0.575         0.783
6    1975         -             -       1.533         0.575         o.958
7    1976         -             -       1.738         0.575         1.163
8    1977         -             -       1.971         o.575         1.396
9    1978         -             -       2.238         o.575         1.663
10    1979     0.208             -       2.543         0.590         1.745
l1    1980         -             -       2.846         o.590         2.256
12    1981         -             -       3.081         0.590         2.491
13    1982         -             -       3.343         0.590         2.753
14    1983         -             -       3.629         o.590         3.039
15    1984     0.250             -       3.942         0.607         3.085
16    1985         -             -       4.288         0.607         3.681
17    1986         -             -       4.666         o.607         4.059
18    1987         -             -       5.083         0.607         4.476
19    1988         -             -       5.544         0.607         4.937
20    1989         -        2.000        6.052         0.607         7.445
The calculations based on the above figures show that the increased revenue
and receipts from the 1970-1973 project would yield an incremental finan-
cial rate of return of about 16.8% at current price levels. A combination
of circumstances whereby capital costs were 10% higher and revenues 10%
lower would give a rate of return of about 13.9%. The reverse combination
whereby capital costs were 10% lawer and revenues were 10% higher would
give a rate of return of about 19.8%. These ranges of 10% in the main
variables seem reasonable to cater for, and thus a likely range in the
incremental financial rate of return would be 13.9%-19.8%.
May 27, 1970



A~~~ ~~ iA.
06~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y
*                                                       01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u 9t
0       IL   o~
*<,x,__,  ZD       Ax
tS ~~~~~~~  ~      ~     ~~             ~~~~~~~~~~ '<') UJ  a 
_E~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Z >              r  tA     g 
0   lp  Z Z   150 .  
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u    w      r=  7      C
Qe        0
01'                 0,>  \           -      O
Ac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                        '_4.            0     
4~~~~~~~~~~~~. 5 X                     00 0  .o-?
\ ~~~ z              2            zi  
z  0~Q   t.        ia i~L  °     o    k  "2  2     
C                                                     to i~  Io,   °3      -



