CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 210 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 13, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 210 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Telecommunications Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 13, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1970, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said Project to be carried out by Perusahaan Umum
Telekomunikasi, a state-owned corporation of the Borrower) by extending the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Commonwealth of Australia has agreed to provide additional funds
to assist in financing the foreign exchange cost of the STD equipment included
in Part A of the Project and of technical assistance for the purpose of carrying
out Parts A, B and C of the Project;
(C)   The Borrower has requested the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland to assist in financing the foreign exchange cost of three technical
experts to cooperate with management consultants for the purpose of carrying
out Part D of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "PERUMTEL"     means   Perusahaan  Umuin    Telekomunikasi,  a
state-owned corporation (Perum) established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower.
(b)   "STD" means subscriber trunk dialing (long-distance dialing).
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into by the Borrower and PERUMTEL pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time with the approval of the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($12,800,000).
Section 2.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1 974 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 1   and   December 1    commencing   December 1, 1980    and  ending
June 1, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
June 1, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
by PERUMTEL with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and telecommunications practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)  The Borrower shall make the funds required to carry out the Project
(including the proceeds of the Credit) available to PERUMTEL under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PERUMTEL under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL to employ (i) for
the purpose of carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, technical consultants,
and (ii) for the purpose of carrying out Part D of the Project, management
consultants assisted by individual experts, acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL to implement promptly after
completion of the study included in Part D of the Project such of the
recommendations (other than the recommendations referred to in Section 4.05
(a) of this Agreement) as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause PERUMTEL to employ qualified and experienced contractors.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the
goods and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Association and the Borrower, and (ii) contracts for the procurement
of all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
(except as otherwise provided in such Schedule) be subject to the prior approval
of the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL to insure, or to make adequate
provision for insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
PERUMTEL to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and
construction schedules for the Project, and any material modifications or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause PERUMTEL to maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and


﻿7
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall consult with the Association before any
major change is made in PERUMTEL's five-year development program (1969-1973),
and, until the facilities included in the Project shall have been completed, review
at least annually with the Association the availability of funds required to carry
out such program.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL:
(a)   at all times to manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan
its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound
business, financial and telecommunications practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management, assisted by qualified staff in adequate
numbers;
(b)   not to increase, until 1974, the total number of its employees without
.prior consultation between the Borrower and the Association; and
(c)   to make suitable arrangements, satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, for the training of PERUMTEL's technical and financial staff.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL:
(a)   to take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all such
rights and interests in land and all such other rights, powers, privileges and franchises
as are necessary or useful in the conduct of PERUMTEL's business; and
(b)   at all times to operate and maintain its installations, equipment and
other property, and promptly as required make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound business and engineering practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheet, statement of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing


﻿8
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but after 1972
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take and shall cause PERUMTEL to take from time to
time all necessary or desirable steps (including, but without limitation, adjustments
in tariffs), as shall be required to provide revenues from PERUMTEL's operations
at least sufficient: (i) to cover all operating and administrative expenses (including
maintenance and depreciation), taxes, if any, interest and other charges on debt,
to meet repayments on debt but only to the extent that such repayments exceed
provisions for depreciation, and to cover a reasonable portion of capital
expenditures; and (ii) after 1972, to produce an annual return at a rate of ten
per cent (10%) on the average current net value of PERUMTEL's fixed assets in
operation calculated in accordance with the method outlined in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, or such higher rate as shall be needed to meet the requirements
specified in sub-paragraph (i).
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL to review, each fiscal year, the
adequacy of PERUMTEL's tariffs to produce after 1972 the annual return, required
under paragraph (a) and to furnish to the Association the results of such review.
(c)   If any such review shall show that PERUMTEL did not earn the annual
return, required under paragraph (a), in the fiscal year for which such review is
made, the Borrower shall cause and enable PERUMTEL to adjust its tariffs
accordingly, and the adjusted tariffs shall be brought into effect promptly as needed
and in any event within a period of seven months after the end of that fiscal
year.
Section 4.05. Without limitation or restriction on the provisions of the
preceding Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall enable and shall cause PERUMTEL:
(a)   to evaluate PERUMTEL's fixed assets and to adjust the structure and
level of PERUMTEL's tariffs and charges, taking into account the recommendations
emanating from the study included in Part D of the Project and the comments
of the Association thereon, all within six months after such comments have become
available; and


﻿9
(b)   until all actions referred to in sub-section (a) have been taken: (i)
to establish and maintain for manual long-distance and STD services an equal rate
for day-service which shall be equivalent to the prevailing "urgent" rate wherever
STD services are available; and (ii) to make adjustments in its tariffs (other than
the adjustment referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph (i)) only after having
obtained the prior agreement of the Association.
Section 4.06. (a) Until 1976, the Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL not to
make any distribution out of its earnings or capital without prior consultation
between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause PERUMTEL not to sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets, except in the normal course of its business.
Section 4.07. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL not to incur any debt, other than
for money borrowed for financing the Project, unless its net revenues for the fiscal
year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior
to such incurrence, whichever amount is greater, shall be not less than 1.3 times
the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal *r on all debt,
including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of PERUMTEL maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt.
(c)   The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of PERUMTEL's tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all operating and
administrative expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but before provision covering
depreciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(d)   The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(e)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange


﻿10
at which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall pay its accounts with PERUMTEL promptly
and in any event until 1973 not later than ninety days, and thereafter not later
than sixty days, after the date of billing, and shall make arrangements satisfactory
to the Association not later than one year after the date of this Agreement for
the settlement of all debts of the Borrower to PERUMTEL as of June 30, 1970.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
perfe nance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial conditions of PERUMTEL,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of PERUMTEL; and
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the operations and financial
condition of PERUMTEL.


﻿*                                   11
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
or the performance by PERUMTEL of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
*         imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.


﻿12
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  PERUMTEL shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PERUMTEL
or by others whereby any of the property of PERUMTEL shall or
may be distributed among its creditors.
(b)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PERUMTEL
or for the suspension of PERUMTEL's operations.
(c)  Government Decree No. 30 of 1965 establishing Perusahaan Negara
Telekonunikasi and Decree No. SK129 of the Minister of
Communications dated April 28, 1970 continuing said enterprise as
a Perusahaan Umun, or any provision thereof, shall have been
amended, suspended or abrogated without the prior agreement of the
Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The right of the Borrower or PERUMTEL to withdraw or otherwise       -
use the proceeds of any loan or grant extended for the purpose of financing
the STD switching, terminal and operator dialing equipment included in Part
A of the Project shall have been suspended.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and PERUMTEL, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate
v .tion.
(b)  PERUMTEL shall have retained management consultants in accordance
with Section 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿13
(c)   The tariff measure referred to in Section 4.05 (b) (i) of this Agreement
shall have been validly taken and become effective.
(d)   The Borrower or PERUMTEL shall have obtained or shall have made
arrangements satisfactory to the Association to obtain additional
financing for the expenditures in currency other than the currency
of the Borrower for goods and services required for the Project and
not to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and PERUMTEL, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the Borrower and PERUMTEL in accordance with its
terms.
(b)   That the tariff measure referred to in Section 4.05 (b) (i) of this
Agreement shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action and constitutes a valid tariff change
under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   That the arrangements under which the financing referred to in Section
8.01 (d) of this Agreement is extended shall have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action and
constitute valid and binding arrangements.
Section 8.03. The date December 15, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿14
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Mardjuni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each
category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                        Dollar Equivalent)
I.    Long-distance telecommunications
network equipment (micro-wave)
cables, installations and
accessories between Djakarta
and Medan with spurs to towns
en route                                              8,500,000
11.   Long-distance telecommunications
network equipment (tropospheric
scatter), cables, installations
and accessories between Surabaya
(East Java) and Bandjarmasin
(Kalimantan)                                          1,500,000
III.  Local distribution and interoffice
cables                                                  700,000
IV.   Telex, teleprinters and accessories                     500,000
V.    Consultant services                                     800,000
VI.   Unallocated                                             800,000
TOTAL              12,800,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿16
(a)   expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of the Borrower, or payments in the currency of the Borrower.
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed by the Borrower or any of its political
subdivisions on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿*                                17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The   Project  forms  part  of   the  Borrower's  on-going  five-year
telecommunications development program and consists of the following parts:
Part A.    The engineering and construction of a trans-Sumatra micro-wave system
linking with the existing Java micro-wave system with spurs to towns
en route, a tropospheric scatter system linking Surabaya (East Java)
with Bandjarmasin (Kalimantan), STD switching, terminal and operator
dialing facilities for Sumatra and the connection of such facilities with
the existing long-distance networks in Java, the usual buildings and
other facilities, and the acquisition of sites and technical training
equipment.
Part B.    The installation of additional local distribution and interoffice
telephone cables in Djakarta.
Part C     The engineering and construction of a new 100-line telex exchange
for Medan (Sumatra) and the installation of teleprinters.
Part D.    Technical assistance through the employment of consultants and
individual experts in the reorganization of PERUMTEL and to
complete a study including an evaluation of PERUMTEL's fixed assets,
a review of the structure and level of PERUMTEL's tariffs and charges,
and an examination of the extent to which PERUMTEL may finance
its future expansion out of its revenues.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1973.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
The following supplementary procedures shall apply to the procurement of
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit:
1.   Identical or similar items to be procured for the Project shall be
grouped together wherever practicable for the purposes of bidding and procurement,
and such grouping of items shall be subject to the approval of the Association.
2.    With respect to all procurement contracts involving expenditures
expected to exceed the equivalent of $50,000, the Borrower shall cause PERUMTEL
to comply with the following procedures:
(a)   Invitations to bid, specifications, the proposed terms and conditions
of contracts, and all other tender documents will be submitted to the
Association for review and approval prior to the issuance of invitations
to bid, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed.
(b)   After bids have been received and analyzed, the analysis of bids,
recommendations of the consulting engineer where applicable, and
PERUMTEL's proposals for awards, together with the reasons for such
proposals will be submitted to the Association for review and approval
prior to making any award of contract or issuing any letter of intent.
(c)   If the final contract is to differ substantially from the terms and
conditions contained in the respective documents approved by the
Association under paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the text of the
proposed changes will be submitted to the Association for its review
and approval prior to the execution of such contract or issuance of
such letter of intent.
(d)   One conformed copy of any letter of intent issued and of any contract
executed under this paragraph 2 shall be sent to the Association
promptly upon its issuance or execution.
3.    With respect to items or groups of items expected to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or less, copies of all tender documents, including invitations to bid,
bid analyses and evaluations, as well as one conformed copy of any contract or


﻿19
letter of intent relating to the procurement of such items or groups of items, shall
be sent to the Association promptly after the execution of any such contract or
issuance of any such letter of intent and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Method for Calculating Rate of Return
(i)        The annual return specified in Section 4.04 (a) of the Development
Credit Agreement shall be calculated, promptly after accounts have been audited,
by using as the denominator the average between the current net values of
PERUMTEL's fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the
fiscal year next preceding the fiscal year in which the calculation is made and
as numerator the operating income of PERUMTEL for the same fiscal year.
(ii)       "Operating income" shall be the difference between PERUMTEL's
revenues and all administrative and operating costs relating thereto, including
maintenance and provision for depreciation.
(iii)      The current net value of fixed assets shall be at any given date their
gross value less accumulated depreciation to such date.
(iv)       Until another method, satisfactory to the Association, for the
maintenance of value of assets shall have been made applicable to PER UMTEL,
the gross value of assets shall be the dollar equivalent of their cost at the time
of incurrence of expenditures therefor converted into currency of the Borrower
at the exchange rate of the last business day preceding the calendar quarter in
which the calculation is to be made.
(v)        Depreciation shall be accumulated on a straight-line basis at an average
rate of at least 4-1/2% per annum of the gross value of fixed assets or such other
minimum rate as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(vi)       The rate of exchange between the dollar and the currency of the
Borrower at any given time shall be the rate at which PERUMTEL could have
bought dollars at such time with currency of the Borrower for the purpose of
servicing foreign debt.


