Document of             i'LE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3521-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEI
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25.2 MILLI
TO THE
CENTRAL BANK OF COSTA RICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
April 12, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS -
Currency Unit = Colon (C)
Since December 25, 1980, Costa Rica has applied a multiple exchange rate
system, with a limited number of transactions conducted at the official
exchange rate (raised to C 20 per US$1 on December 10, 1981). Most other
commercial transactions are conducted at an interbank rate determined by
the Central Bank. As of end-March, 1983, this rate was C 40 to US$1.
Tourist transactions as well as other transactions not accommodated through
the banking exchange market are conducted at a fluctuating exchange rate in
the parallel exchange market. As of end-March, 1983, the parallel market
rate stood at C 44.20 to US$1.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BAC      - Banco Anglo-Costarricense
BCAC     - Banco Credito Agricola Cartago
BCCR     - Banco Central de Costa Rica
(Central Bank of Costa Rica)
BCR      - Banco de Costa Rica
BNCR     - Banco Nacional de Costa Rica
CABEI    - Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM     - Central American Common Market
CAT      - Certificado de Abono Tributario
(Export Tax Credit Certificate)
CENPRO   - Centro para la Promocion de las Exportaciones y de las
Inversiones
(Export and Investment Promotion Center)
CIEX     - Certificado de Incremento de Exportaciones
(Certificate of Increase in Exports)
CODESA   - Corporacion Costarricense de Desarrollo
(Costa Rican Development Corporation)
FOPEX    - Fondo para el Financiamiento de las Exportaciones
(Export Financing Fund)
IICE     - Instituto de Investigaciones en Ciencias Economicas
(Economic Research Institute of the University of
Costa Rica)
ITC      - International Trade Center
REIFALDI - Reglamento de Incentivos Fiscales para el Desarrollo
Industrial
(Regulations for Fiscal Incentives for
Industrial Development)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
EXPORT DEVELOPM.ENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:            Central Bank of Costa Rica.
Guarantor:           Republic of Costa Rica.
Beneficiaries:       Public and private banks belonging to the National
Banking System.
Amount:              US$25.2 million equivalent, including US$0.2 million
capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:               17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:   The Borrower, through its Export Financing Fund (POPEX)
would make the proceeds of the loan available to
participating financial intermediaries who would provide
advances in foreign exchange to exporters based on a
discounting of letters of credit or other negotiable
export documents. The exporter would pay a commission
based on the six-month LIBOR rate plus a spread to cover
intermediary costs; the foreign exchange risk for each
short term operation would be borne by the exporter.
Project
Description:       The proposed loan would support the Government's export
development program through: i) establishment of a
revolving Export Financing Fund (FOPEX) in the Central
Bank to help ensure adequate access of exporters to
foreign exchange for imported inputs; ii) provision
through FOPEX of short-term financing for both imported
and local inputs; iii) strengthening the Government's
export promotion policy framework; and iv) provision of
technical assistance to the Government and its Export
Promotion and Investmerit Center (CENPRO) to strengthen
export and investment promotion efforts and services to
exporters. US$24.7 million of the loan would be utilized
for financing through FOPEX, with US$0.3 million for
technical assistance, and the remainder for payment of
the front-end fee.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
By providing exporters with timely and adequate access
to foreign exchange, the proposeci loan is expected to
facilitate improved capacity utilization in export
industries, thus generating new employment and income.
It would also promote a more rapid expansion of non-
traditional exports than might otherwise be possible.
The proposed loan's principal rislk is slower than
expected disbursement due to lags in improved export
performance stemming from slower growth in world trade
coupled with difficulties in opening new export markets,
or from the Government's owv  economic policies, including
inappropriate exchange rate and external debt manage--
ment. In addition, disbursements could be delayed by
start-up difficulties in putting into operation a new
export financing fund and new financing arrangements. To
minimize this latter risk, Bank staff would closely
supervise the initial start-up of the export fund, The
Bank would also continue its dialogue with the Government
aimed at promoting sound export sector policies within
the context of discussions on preparation of the
Government's medium term economic recoverv program.
Pre-export Finan-
cing Needs and
Financing Plan:   The proposed loan, through the revolving fund mechanism,
would finance about 30 percent of the estimated annual
import requirements for non-traditional exports for the
years 1983, 1984, and 1985.   The remaining requirements
would be financed through suppliers and other commercial
credit, the Central Bank's own foreign exchange
resources, and assistance from ot'her external donors,
Estimated
Disbursements:                              US$ Million
Bank FY                  84       85
Annual                  16e2       9.0
Cumulative              16.2     25.2
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:   Combined President and Appraisal Report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN TO THE
CENTRAL BANK OF COSTA RICA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a loan of
US$25.2 million equivalent to the Central Bank of Costa Rica, with the
guarantee of the Republic of Costa Rica, to support the Government's export
promotion program. The loan, which includes a capitalized front-end fee of
three-fourths of one percent, would have a term of 17 years, including 4
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled, "Costa Rica - Current Economic Position and
Prospects" (Report No. 3193-CR) was circulated to the Executive Directors on
November 10, 1980. A special report entitled "Costa Rica: Trade Incentives
and Export Diversification" (No. 3195-CR) was also distributed at that time.
Since then several Bank missions have visited Costa Rica to review economic
performance, the most recent ones being in July and October 1982, and March
1983. The main findings of these missions are summarized in this section.
An updated Country Economic Memorandum is scheduled for presentation to the
Executive Directors towards the end of calendar 1983. Annex I summarizes the
main social and economic indicators.
Introduction
3.        After two decades of more than satisfactory growth, Costa Rica
today faces its most serious economic crisis in the post war period. GDP
growth, which averaged 6 percent per annum for almost two decades, and
reached a high of almost 9 percent in 1977, plummeted to a negative 4.6
percent in 1981, with an even greater decline estimated for 1982. Open
unemployment, now over 10 percent, is predicted to deteriorate further, while
real incomes continue to decline in the face of rapid inflation, which
reached a high of about 80 percent in 1982. On the external side, the
country confronts a massive external debt burden, compounded by a devaluation
of almost 400 percent in less than two years, with serious balance of payment
constraints and relatively limited access to normal sources of external
credit likely to continue over the medium term.
4.        Faced with this bleak scenario, Costa Rica's new Government, which
took office in May 1982, has undertaken measures to stabilize the economy and
restore relations with its external creditors, while beginning to put in
place policies and programs designed to restore and revive growth over the
medium term. Although preparation and initial implementation of a stabiliza-
tion and recovery program have been slowed by problems in coordination within
the Government and the time required to reach a consensus on policy issues



within  the cou0l0>y- is-il                        -:.tu -czjl progress has been-
made, iTaclndingv    .-C_. '-.     ' a  . nc  '>          . a       measures in  the context
of a stancry   r^--r-vu---  -     --e  it  .-,---e  ar n~ lae  l>832 _       G-iven the magni-
tude of tI c     4                                                                  _3i.Mic pOli.
wil'l be re           i~ -reyrous growth path.
Substantial             -        -7e     -te -    ..;. -      a      eo 'a essensial to  the
counrtry's
PasL Ecc{oS1   :_ 7 _-
de de        :    -           - i     - h  r__    -3.                    sustained  for two
deced>C.faes  54<l't,9,  ! i9 a. -C                     j ;-t' '2, v -;-21 7 stadards and a relatively
equitable  _'s;:l:xtzcc    ox'. -1--<xic c                          .c p7rvar-e sertor
activiti es    p-'             7-  .-                       i-        --  r'   _mlZlion pncpu-
ltainn)  mi d c `c I E - -   -.  l_---                ; ^,  . fce ial needs.
More than h'a-- c  t ;?, es .-c.-ae traditioncily
gone to  e-dusa. i,             .              7-r 5        saC~r_L S-ctors           a result,
mlaortall't>-, -iv a.-e  ''.7e-''' 'I  fef r~~< ~ ' i e  -'Sr d,7 ¢ _   o    per    c    n,,a and the
adullt let,1cfJr                                    -               e sanid c-ic her education
levecs, ceU: lc        ii  h^n-ct -1i tiI-        -          Yc Xa m , r -  -edUCed berth rates
and 'Led to a                                                  accs'-ice ic  ccc   ' tcc-n 3>½-- -,7 ci  ercent in  1960
to 205 pere-a,s: _in t-e e-x    120: .9 n   '. ca Rice  I-a nI  standi-ng arTy and the
share OrL g7clvrn.en1t eX'V'..   tU"eS  -'--- d   -m t-. a--ds Zo Z  Cer''e'-Ic>--s  one of
the loest ;     -
f             -.I-t> during the
196&s ann    7         Ad;T.70--                          a 'f,     p.ercent per annum while
sdus trial                                                        '7 .    ch sector now
accounts c  ft                                                     1       cc -he economy.  The
rapro  ½                                                            on'1    o` the Central
Americac . ,-,                                                '. s -°.n 3f regional  import
subs tL3UL       ^                    .tu'L-I.: -:.         O .  .  I- CT g -i.   s --rade grew
iea-    Y        L.-                - -                       ' .  - .    agrowth based on
imnrot r '    i         0   -                            7            Ia: mong Costa RIca's
CA Mcra.                                                                       trade and
O.   a                                              JiL an.3 -Ec~c tI e count ry s
xpo                 - , -- .    -Sc -^                                              s -_- -c  ,-r .S D.s    teide
the VA2-2  - -; ,,                          s                            ng the growth of
7j, s -.-.-,,                                                       i i,p h-S. -.   .-.-.us"-o ''3.    Devaluation
raised 'ves --                                    ,                    . ccc  to 47 percent  of
GDP-                                  i                          1 iO   expofrts in 1981
wgere           -                                                     4 7.porOns ½-n, the  same
year. - Ze. t- es for industry  while
one                               . .-'    , -  '- :-.-ess  2adkeis the economy
vuLi ne. rae ,-,-.-       d--  . -  -..-      "      .nf'    and :' Si 7 ,7 5 led  by a quadrupl-
ng      .--:: rS baana ard cacao prices,
toe  ae-    cc  s .r-..   -  -. F                               E, V '-t-s-c,  CUGP growth
acceL ea- e.-  -.     -    - i-  7-                             .7               a uctmani ed by a
rapiLd,  ~--r   ,   1                                      Lp-. 11  IO-.     c-. c -e: ccor-ma.nce, the resource
gapd cerc f      - :                 .    -:         -  --       -'7  t - n a-verage 5.7 percent



kn 1976-1977. However, from 1978 on, coffee prices fell substantially while
the country experienced increases in the price of petroleum (although the
financial burden of these increases was mitigated by the Mexican and
Venezuelan oil facilities). In 1979, the resource gap was back to nearly 11
percent of GDP and net reserves had dropped to less than one month of
imports. By 1980. international reserves became negative, and GDP grew only
0,8 percent.
8.        GDP has fallen and inflation and unemployment have risen sharply in
the last two years. GDP declined by an estimated 4.6 percent in 1981 and
about another 6 percent in 1982. Per capita GDP has fallen from about
US$1,630 in 1979 to roughly US$1,370 in 1982. Inflation, as measured by the
GDP deflator, speeded up from 19 percent in 1980 to 45 percent in 1981 and to
about 80 percent in 1982. Real average wages declined by 3 percent in 1980
and by more than 13 percent in 1981, to less than the 1976 level. Total
underutilization of labor (open unemployment plus underemployment) reached
15.9 percent in 1981, compared to 11.5 the year before, and is considerably
higher today.
The Current Crisis
9.        Although the slowdown in economic activity resulted in part from
the deterioration in Costa Rica's terms of trade, coupled with diminishing
demand for its exports (particularly in the CACM), an important cause of the
current crisis has been unsatisfactory economic management. Expansionary
fiscal and monetary programs contributed to excess demand pressures in the
economy. Public savings became negative by 1979 and the Government began to
absorb increasing proportions of available credit, eventually diverting it
from the private sector. The consolidated overall public sector deficit was
between 12 and 15 percent of GDP for each of the years 1979-1981.  One-third
to one-half of this was attributable to the autonomous public agencies.
Heavy external borrowing was also employed by the Government to meet both the
fiscal and foreign exchange deficits. Overvaluation of the colon weakened
the balance of payments. Structural factors, such as slower output growth in
agriculture, and the inefficiency of many public sector and private indus-
trial enterprises, exacerbated the situation,
10.       The economic situation was worsened by uncertainties regarding
exchange rate policy and the availability of foreign exchange. The foreign
exchange scarcity impeded industrial production, which has been heavily
dependent on imported inputs. It also encouraged speculation and contraband
exports, including agricultural and industrial machinery.  During the third
quarter of 1980 the Government attempted a controlled-float of the colon,
which had been fixed at 8.6:US$1 for many years. Reserves fell sharply as a
result of efforts to stabilize the exchange rate at over-valued levels, and
in August 1981 payments on most external debts to other than multilateral
institutions were suspended. Currently, there are three exchange rates: an
official rate applicable primarily to imports of medicines and to remittances
to students studying abroad, an inter-bank rate which covers the bulk of
transactions, and a parallel free market rate. The official rate is set by
the National Assembly, and since November 1981 has been C 20:US$1. The
interbank rate rose to C 36:US$1 in the last quarter of 1981, then to



- 4 -
C 40:US$l in the third quarter of 1982.  The parallel market rate, which
applies primarily to tourism, capital receipts and non-priority Imports,
reached C 62-US$1 in June 1982 but has since fallen to about C 442zUS$1_
11.       Faced with deteriorating trends with respect to output, balance of
payments, exchange rate and employment, the Government formulated a stabili-
zation program in early 1980, on the basis of which a two-year standby
arrangement was approved by the IMF in March. This program aimed at reducing
the public sector deficit from 11.5 percent of GDP in 1979 to 7 percent in
1980, and at limiting the expansion of domestic credit to the public sector
to 18 percent.  By September 1980, however, it was clear that the Govern-
ment's inability to control expenditures made the program inoperable0  in
fact, current expenditures increased 30 percent faster than current revenues
in 1980, while capital expenditures remained high at the equivalent of over
10 percent of GDP. The ensuing expansion of the government's overall deficit
was accommodated by the banking system which channeled over 44 percent of its
credit to the public sector in 1980.  This trend continued in 1981.  In
another attempt to stabilize the economy, and as part of a series of emer-
gency measures, sales and export taxes were increased in early 1981.  As a
result, the public sector's financial position improved moderately and in
June 1981, the IMF approved an Extended Fund Facility. However, the. laovarn-
ment continued to experience difficulties in meeting agreed targets and the
arrangement becamze inoperative after only two months.
12.       Despite some increases, interest rates have not kept up with infla-
tion.  From a basic savings interest rate of 13 percent in early 1979,
increases to 17 and 21.5 percent took place in 1980 and 1981, re6 .,
Deposits of 9 to 12 months and over 12 months earned interest of 22 and 22,5
percent in 1981. Stabilization bonds yielded 24.5 to 25.5 percent, depending,
on their maturity. The generally applicable lending rate in 1981-82 was 25
percent, although credit was made available to small farmers at 12 percent
and commercial agriculturists were able to borrow at 18 percent.
13.       Excessive reliance on external borrowing caused the cost of servic-
ing this debt to become unmanageable. The ratio of disbursed total exten^--l
public debt to GDP reached 90 percent in 1981. The service of public and
private external debt equalled 43 percent of merchandise exports in 1980, and
in August 1981 the shortage of foreign exchange forced Costa Rica to suspend
most of its principal and interest payments to other than miultilateral
institutions.
14.       Given the seriousness of the situation, economic issues dominated
the presidential campaign in late 1981 and early 1932. The elections, held
in February 1982, resulted in the return to power of the Liberacion party,
under the leadership of President Luis Alberto Monge. The new Government
took office in May 1982, and immediately announced an emergency program to
deal with the escalating economic crisis,



-5
Government Response to the Crisis
15,       Upon taking office, the Government moved quickly to reestablish
relations with the IMF, re-open negotiations with its commercial creditors,
and begin to take the fiscal and other measures required to stabilize the
economy.  As part of these efforts, the Government has moved to reduce the
fiscal deficit (and subsidies to the consumer) by raising tariffs for water
(95 percent), telephone (55 percent) and electricity (223 percent),
increasing the price of petroleum derivatives (91 percent) and abolishing
wheat and public transport subsidies. Additional revenue measures were
introduced into the Assembly (the bulk of which were approved by end
November), and new legislation was approved in July 1982 to strengthen the
Central Bank's ability to control and regulate foreign exchange and increase
penalties for withholding export receipts. As a first step towards restoring
its external credibility, the Government also confirmed its commitment to
honor its foreign debt (following its restructuring) and token partial
payments of interest on its commercial debt were resumed in July.
16.       The new foreign exchange regulations also established a list of
over 240 categories of goods that can be imported at the interbank rate. All
exports now require a Central Bank license and all export proceeds must be
turned in to the Central Bank, which converts them at a net rate of C 37 to
C 38 per dollar (depending on the commodity and country to which exported).
17.       After extensive negotiations, the IMF approved a one-year standby
on December 20, 1982 in the amount of SDR92.2 million to support the
Government's stabiiization and recovery program. Principal measures of this
program include (i) gradual unification of the interbank and free market
exchange rates during 1983; (ii) a 3.5 percent increase in the basic interest
rate for deposits to a level of 25 percent; (iii) resumption of external debt
service payments; (iv) improved tax revenues, further increases in charges
for public utilities and restrained Government expenditures to reduce the
public sector deficit from nearly 15 percent of GDP at the end of 1981 to not
more than 9.5 percent at the end of 1982 and 4.5 percent by the end of 1983;
and, (v) priority in credit allocation to the private sector with reduced
recourse to bank credit by the public sector.
18.       As noted earlier, GDP is believed to have fallen by about 6 percent
in 1982. Agricultural production may have increased, as coffee and banana
output were both good. The manufacturing and service sectors suffered from
lack of imports and financial resources as well as a weakening in demand.
The value of merchandise exports decreased as banana and coffee prices
weakened, and as industrial exports to the CACM fell sharply (by 25
percent). Unemployment and underemployment exceeded 20 percent by the end of
1982. Real incomes of consumers were also reduced by rapid price increases
that outstripped wages and salaries. Wholesale prices rose about 80 percent
in 1982 on a December-to-December basis, but the annual rate of inflation
slowed to about 30 percent during the last quarter. For all of 1983, prices
are currently expected to rise by no more than about 30 percent. GDP is
expected to remain about the same in 1983 as in 1982, and to grow modestly in
1984.



-6-
Development Prospects and Co Pstraints
19.       While the Government is determinied to significantly improve
economic management and restore its relations with its foreign creditors,
it is also aware that its stabilization program constitutes only the first
phase of a much more extensive and longer term recovery effort. There
remains the need to augment these  initial efforts with further steps to
reorient policies and programs iF the country is to avoid prolonged
stagflation. The changes are major and require a coherent program to address
key structural problems in the Costa Rican economny, including i) further
efforts to increase tax revenues and restri7ct public expenditures, including
substantial reductions in mandatory earmarking of budget revenues,
strengthening the National Budgetary .uthority (established in 1979 to review
and approve agency budget submissions),-improving the efficiency of high-cost
social programs, and developing a coherent and well planned public investment
program; ii) additional efforts to accelerate exports ard to increase
emphasis on agriculture and agriculture-based industries, wherein lies Costa
Rica's main comparative advantage; iii) effective demand management to reduce
public and private consumption expenditures, and promote an efficient
allocation of new investment resources and better utilization of capacity in
manufacturing; iv) further efforts to exploit domestic energy resources to
reduce dependence on imported oil; v) improvement in domestic resource
mobilization, in the pricing of factors of production, and in the efficiency
of the financial system, including greater private sector access to credit;
vi) further improvement of pricing policies, especially in agriculture,
public enterprises and consumer goods; and vii) efforts to improve external
debt management and strictly limit additional foreign borrowing, especially
on non-concessional terms, to minimize any further growth of the country's
debt service.
20.       Even under optimistic assumptions about stabilization and substan-
tial structural reforms, however, Costa Rica's longer term economic prospects
through the end of the decade are not buoyant,  The foreign exchange
constraint, in view of the very heavy debt service burden, will remain
binding throughout most of the 1980s, and imports will be forced to adjust to
exchange availabilities, Since between 50 and 60 percent of Costa Rica's
imports have been raw materials, and intermediate and capital goods for
industrial and agricultural activity, the negative short-run growth
consequences of reduced imports are unavoidable. In the next few years,
i ncome and consumption growth per capita will most likely be negative, but if
appropriate policies and programs are implemented, some economic recovery can
be expected to take place in the latter part of the decade.  The need to
restrain consumption, particularly Government consumption, will require great
care in the budgeting of fiscal resources. At the same time, unemployment
will likely remain a serious problem, thus requiring a major effort to
improve the incentive framework and encourage a maximum level of private
sector growth, s:ince the public sector can no longeBr be relied upon as an
employer of last resort, and indeed must be reduced in relative size.
21.        Costa Rica's economic growth and balance of payments prospects are
predicated on major structural changes, particularly a major effort to
promote exports of non-traditional products, while maximizing traditional



- 7 
exports to the extent possible.  The export ince-ntives to be introduced
should be sufficiently strong to generate a significant increase of the
dollar value of exports by the end of the decade. This will not be easy in
the highly competitive and slow recovering world economy of the mid-1I980s,
although given its small size, Costa Rica would need to obtain only a small
additional share in major markets outside the CACM.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
22.       Costa Rica's medium and long-term external public and publically
guiaranteed debt as of December 31, 1981 was US$2,357 million; US$3,248 if
undisbursed commitments are included.  Of this, US$59 million represented
principal in arrears. The Bank group held 8.3 percent of the outstanding
debt (none in arrears). Of other major-lenders, the IDB held 10.2 Percent,
CABET 6.6 percent, Venezuela 6.2 percentt, the US Government 3o8 percent, and
suppliers and private banks 36.0 percent.  The remaining Jebt is divided
among a large number of bond holders (about 19 percent), with other bilateral
debt making up the balance. Lending by the main official agencies during
1970-82 at FY81 prices, is detailed in Annex I.
23.       Most of the country's public sector medium and long-term debt
service payments due for 1982 (US$552 million or about 45 percent of
estimated exports of goods and non-factor services) are in arrears. However,
payments to multilateral agencies, including the Bank, have continued to be
made. In the second half of the year token interest payments were made on
public debt to commercial banks (at the rate of nearly US$7 million per
month). No reliable estimates are available on private sector debt service,
but non-guaranteed long-term private debt as of December 1981 is estimated at
US$374 million and private short-term debt at US$674 million, A modest
portion of this debt is being serviced.
24.       The new Governiment resumed discussions with its commercial
creditors in June 1982. An agreement in principle has been reached under
which foreign commercial banks would extend new credits equal to about
one-half of the interest in arrears plus interest falling due in 1983
totalling US$455 million. Agreement on the interest rate and on the
rescheduling of principal in arrears and principal due through 1983, has yet
to be reached, although the Government now expects to complete awl
arrangements during May 1983. With regard to bilateral debt, the Paris Club
agreed in early January to reschedule, or favorable terms, 85 percent of the
arrears as well as principal and interest due through 1983. Terms for the
repayment of arrears are 7 years, including 3 years of grace.  Terms for the
repayment of principal and interest during the July 1, 1982 to December 31,
1983 consolidation period are 9 years, including 4 y-ears of grace. Total
debt eligible for restructuring is estimnated at US$120 million,
25.       As CQosta Rica's economic problems are gradually brought under
control, prospects for strengthening the external sector may improve.
The IMF Standby and debt rescheduling should help to ease foreign exchange
constraints in the short term. Nevertheless, even with a large-scale
rescheduling on liberal terms, substantial capital inflows from donor



-8-
countries and iinternational financial institutioins will continue to be
needed during the 1980's if external debt service growth is to be kept at
sustainable levels.
26.       In summary, Costa Rica will continue to experience economic
difficulties and a substantially lower rate of growth during the 1980s.
Nevertheless, assuming implementation of a satisfactory stabilization
program, coupled with adequate capital inflows and major structual changes,
Costa Rica's economy should be expected to regain some of its earlier
dynamism. Although its debt service is expected to remain high in the next
few years, careful demand management, appropriate export promotion policies,
and timely implementation of other structural changes, should help to restore
its traditional creditworthiness.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
27.       Costa Rica has to date received 27 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totalling US$386.4 million net of cancellations. Of these, six were Lor
power, five each for telecommunications, industry and highways, three for
agriculture and one each for education, water supply, urban transport and
technical assistance for petroleum exploration. Performance audit reports
have been issued for two highways, and three telecommunications projects and
for one agriculture and one power project. These reports indicate that
project objectives were generally achieved in highways, telecommunications
and power, with somewhat less success in agriculture where appraisal targets
for crop production and exports were missed, partly due to shifts in markets
and incentives, and difficulties in introducing more satisfactory investment
analysis methods into the banking system.
28.       Of the nine projects currently under execution, project start-up
has generally been slowed by delays in loan effectiveness due mainly to
legislative ratification delays. Implementation of these projects is
generally proceeding satisfactorily, although disbursement performance
continues to be slower than expected, due largely to increasing local finan-
cing constraints. Nevertheless, disbursement performance is expected to
improve over the next 12 months, particularly now that the Fifth Highway
Project and San Jose Water Supply Projects are finally getting under way.
Annex II containis a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credit and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing
prcjects.
29.       The main thrust of the Bank's past lending has been to help develop
basic infrastructure, such as power, telecommunications, highways, and water
supply, with more limited involvement in agriculture, industry and education,
in part because other lenders have been able to provide Costa Rica with
substantial concessional lending which the Government has preferred to use
for socially oriented investments. Future lending, given the changed
economic circumstances, will concentrate on encouraging the structural and
policy changes needed to carry out an effective stabilization program, while



- 9 -
also assisting in the reactivation and development of the country's produc-
tive and export sectors. In this context, the proposed Export Development
Loan would provide needed short-term financing to help reactivate and expand
exports of non-traditional goods, and support improvements in export sector
policies, as well as improved financing mechanisms and export support
services. This is especially important, since improvement in export
performance, and a gradual reduction of export sector constraints, is
considered by the Government as an important part of a more comprehensive
program of economic adjustment and recovery currently under preparation, and
which could form the basis for a structural adjustment operation, possibly in
the first half of FY84. Other possible future operations would support
development of Costa Rica's agriculture sector, through selected credit and
development projects designed to strengthen the country's agriculture export
potential. Bank lending would also continue to support the development of
Costa Rica's hydro-power potential, as a means of further reducing its
dependence on imported fuels.
30.       IFC has been involved in four projects in Costa Rica.  Equity and
loan investments in Productos de Concreto have been sold and fully repaid.
The expansion proiect of Scott Paper Company de Costa Rica, financed by a
loan in 1978, is now completed. Loan and equity investments in 1979 helped
finance the integration and expansion of Maricultura, S.A., a shrimp farm on
the Pacific Coast. This project's financial and management difficulties have
since forced the shrimp farm to cease operations. However, efforts to
salvage the project, if possible, are underway. In August 1982, a loan of
US$4.0 million to Matas de Costa Rica, S.A. was approved by IFC's Board of
Directors to help finance the development of a new plantation for indoor
ornamental plants. IFC is also exploring other financing possibilities in
the country.
PART III - THE EXPORT SECTOR
Introduction
31.       With its narrow resource base and small domestic market, Costa Rica
has remained crucially dependent on external trade as its primary vehicle for
growth.  In the period since 1960, export growth at 8 percent p.a. in real
terms has consistently outstripped GDP growth at 6 percent p.a. and exports
of goods and services now account for about 34 percent of GDP. The bulk of
this trade has been and continues to be based on the agriculture sector, with
agriculture or agriculture-based exports making up about two-thirds of total
export earnings in the early 1980s. Trade has also played an important role
in the development of the industrial sector, especially Central American
trade, which, through the framework of the CACM, has promoted the development
of a largely regional import substitution based industrial sector. Exports
of manufactured goods, which constituted only a small percentage of total
exports in the early 1960s, increased their share to about 33 percent in
1981, of which about 65 percent constitutes exports to the CACM. The
challenge now confronting Costa Rica is to diversify its agricultural and
industrial exports, and expand into new markets, outside the CACM.



- 10 -
Past Performance and Future Prospects
32.       Agricu:Lture Exports.  Five primary products--coffee, bananas, beef,
sugar and cacao---constitute Costa Rica's traditional agricultural exports,
with these five commodities accounting for an average of about 60 percent of
total export earnings in 1979-81.  Other agriculture commodities, including
beans, unprocessed vegetables, dairy produce, fruits and flowers, as well as
fish and seafood, contribute an additional 6 to 7 percent of total exports.
Of these commodities, coffee and bananas clearly dominate, making up about 70
percent of total agriculture export earnings, followed by cattle and beef
which contribute an additional 10 to 11 percent. Markets for Costa Rica's
major primary commodities are almost entirely in the United States and
Europe, with the bulk of banana and beef exports going to the United States,
and the bulk of coffee exports to Europe, especially Germany. In terms of
world trade, only banana exports are significant, constituting some 15 per-
cent of total trade in this commodity. Total agriculture exports in 1982 are
estimated at US$6Q0 million, which represents a decline of about 7 percent in
nominal terms from 1981 totals.
33.       While agricultural commodities will cont-inue to constitute the bulk
of Costa Rican exports in the forseeable future, prospects for any
substantial growt:h in the next 4-5 years are likely to be limited, mainly due
to international market constraints and increasing alternative sources of
world supply, but also in some cases to difficulties in rapidly increasing
production. In the coffee subsector, where world forecasts indicate
continued oversupply, the principal concern is surplus production, given high
yields, and limit:ations on sales under international quota arrangements,
although some trade on a barter basis outside these arrangements is now
taking place. For bananas, some limited growth in exports is expected.
Prospects for beef and sugar exports are also limited. For cacao, increased
production and exports depend mainly on prog-ress in disease control.
Regarding other commodities, important increases have occured in recent years
in exports of various seafood items as well as in vegetable products and
fruits, which have found good acceptance in the US and European markets.
However, while the frontier of production for these products has not yet been
reached, further growth will require substantial imlprovement in organization
and management, perhaps with the involvement of foreign investors, as well as
further improvements in quality control, and marketing. Nevertheless, even
though future prospects in these latter commodities may be reasonable, their
total contribution to export earnings will in any case remain relatively
small.  As such, Costa Rica will have to continue to rely on its major
primary commodities for the bulk of its export earnings from agriculture,
recognizing that these commodities are subject to substantial variations in
world prices.
34.       Overall growth in agriculture has declined in the past decade, due
mainly to substarLtially slower growth in export conmodities. At the same
time, although production for the domestic market has maintained a strong
growth rate of close to 5 percent per year, increases in production have been
unable to keep up with domestic demand expansion, necessitating growing food



|-   I li |
imports. The less thaan satisfactory performanrce of thie sector, w_ith the
exception, mainly of the banana and coffee so'!),setnr-s  i s the result of a
relatively cooiplex interaction  .etw-nen state i     '     * ac  coro-o    and
problems in exchange rate management, market const5ra.nts and prospects, and
teclhnological and other bottlenecks.  As such, improve d performance wi.l
requiire a series of complementary pollicy arnd prue,,o-fa adjustmen-ts.  To assist
the Government I5n its analysis of these I.ssue7eR  a 3a rk agriculture sector
mission visited Costa Rica to review its proe,e.ms aa, 3 prospects in May 1982.
Its report, which is under discussion with the Govuernment, focuses on thle
need for a major coordinated reform of the existin,  incentive system to
ensure a sufficient level of private profitability reqi.,ired to stimulate new
investment and increase production, while also proidi.ng the technological
and other inputs needed to enhance productivity,  A fuLef review of these
issues is being carried out as part of our-di-.scuss-eocs with the Government to
assist in the preparation of its medium anfd loniger tera econ'rnomic recovery and
structural adjustment program.
35.        Manufactured Exports.  Manufactured exports, including both indus-
trial and processed agricultural goods, 'fhave grown at a spectacular rate
during the last 20 years, averaging 20 percent f.a. e    n real terms (between
1962 and 1981).  Their participation in total zxpofts Jumped from less than
5 percent during the early 1960s to 22 percent at the end of the decade and
averaged 33 percent in the late 1970s and early 1L980,   From sales totalling
US$2.4 million in 1962, manufactured exports advance  tSo over US$64.5 mTtillion
ten years later and reached US$342 mill ifon in l 98-e
36.       Central America remains the major marloet for manuLactured exports,
although its share has dropped from 85 percent of Lotal marufactured exports
in the early 1970s to 65 percent in the earl-y 109810s, Chemicals in general
and fertilizers in particular are the must  mpor.tant exporting activities to
CACM countries,  These are followed by texti.les, garments and leather, and
metallic products which are also among the most cheavi'ly protected products in
Costa Rica and in the region.  The total value oE manufactured exports to the
CACM grew from US$45 million in the early 1970s to TS$248 milli-on in 1980.
Since then, however, the total value of this trade has declined to US$218
million in 1981 and to an estimated US$162 million in 1982, reflecting the
increasing economic and oth.er constralnts irn the region.   Prospects for the
regional market are likely to remain limited over the medium, term,
37.       While their share has risen from. less than 10 s,ercent to c'lose to
35 percent, manufactured exports to tnird countries (in-luding Panama) still
remain small, averaging US$10-15 million in the early 1970s and US$80 million
in 1978-80. Recently, however, groawth of these exports has accelerated,
reaching US$123 million in l9819 althougnh .dropping slightly to an estimated
US$111 million in 1982.  Food products and Losacco dominate this market,
followed by chemical, metal, mechanical, gG -ent andr leather goods. Over the
coming 2 to 3 years, further growth, est`m,at>ed at a 1. percent per year_ is
possible, with total manufactured exports to tlr          ntr countries reaching as much
as US$150 million by 1985. However, this asesu'es sP -well coordinated and
consistent effort to open up new markets. the availablity of adequate Levels
of financing both in foreign and local curre;cy, and the maintenance of a
satisfactory package of incentives, includina. reallstic exchange rate.



- 12 -
38.       While the regional import substitution process, including a growing
domestic market, provided the main stimulus for rapid growth in manufacturing
output (averaging over 8 percent per annum d-uring the past two decades), the
highly protected environment (with tariff exemptions on a large number of raw
materials, intermediate and capital goods) also encouraged a high degree of
import intensity, as well as inefficient and high cost production. At the
same time other subsidy componen.ts, such as low interest rates and generous
zax and depreciation provisions for capital goods, encouraged a high level of
capital intens:ity, while relatively high payroll taxes further distorted
factor prices. The resulting structure of the marAufacturing sector is one
which is highly vulnerable to constraints affecting the level of imported
inputs. In addition, it is one in which over two-thirds of existing firms
operate primarily on only one shift. There is therefore substantial under-
utilized capacity, which represents a reservoir for expansion of exports,
provided financial and other sector constraints can be overcome.
394       Given its structure and orientation, and faced with growing
constraints in its established markets, overall performance in the industrial
sector has fallen sharply in the past 2 years, with output declining 2.2 per-
cent in 1981 and by an estimated 7 percent in 1982. Since neither the
internal market nor the CACM, with its weakened regional economies, cart be
expected to provide a growing market for Costa Rican manufactured products,
at least in the short to medium term, exports to countries outside the region
have become more and more important for industry to survive. Moreover, hard
currency earnings are needed to pay for the substantial imported inputs
required by the sector.  Nevertheless, over the medium to longer term., the
existing structure of industry must be substantia'lly altered if relatively
high growth is to be restored and sustained. This is essential not onl.y to
meet the requirements and needs of highly competitive new markets, but also
to increase domestic value added, maximize use of Costa Rica's own resource
base and enhance the sector's capacity utilization and productivity0
40o         Current Situation and Overall Prospects for Exports   ITn 1981,
Costa Rican exports totalled US$1,008 million, of -which US$647 million were
agricultural and US$361 million manufactured exports. For 1982, total
exports are estimated at about US$876 million, representing a decline from
1981 of about 13 percent, with industrial exports to CACM countries falling
by about 25 percent. This decline in total exports reflects both stagnation
in world prices, especially for agriculture exports, as well as continued
problems with the regional market, and difficulties in penetrating new
markets during a slowdown in the world economy0 It also reflects a
deteriorating economy and serious constraints in economic management, which
have i) substantially reduced access of exporters to timely and adequate
foreign exchange resources; ii) resulted in an often erratic exchange rate
policy; iii) delayed putting in place a satisfactory stabilizatiorn program;
and iv) generally encouraged the continuation of an anti-export ernvironment,
including the maintenance of high export taxes. All of this has undermined
exporter confidence and incentive to undertake a maximum export effort.



- 13 -
41.      Costa Rica can do little to prevent other countries from engaging in
trade restricting practices---except perhaps in the case of Central America
where negotiations to revive trade are currently underway. Neither can it
prompt more rapid economic recovery in its principal overseas market
countries. But policy makers can ensure and maintain an incentive framework
which makes exporting more feasible and profitable. At the present time, the
real effective exchange rate is more favorable to the Costa Rican exporter
than durirg any time in the past 15 years.  In addition, the Government's
stabilization program, including its improved exchange rate management,
constitute an important first step towards a more positive export oriented
environment. Nevertheless, substantial additional policy improvements are
needed to reduce and gradually eliminate disincentives to export, encourage
increased productivity and domestic value added, as well as assist in the
opening up of new markets.
42.       If current export profitability is at least maintained and the
macro-economic framework stabilized, it is not unreasonable to assume that
Costa Rica's total exports will recover and surpass 1980-81 levels in 1984,
with non-traditional exports (which include all exports except the main
traditional commodities of coffee, bananas, beef, and sugar), increasing
faster than traditional ones. Assuming adequate foreign exchange resources
are available, no further decline in global trade and a satisfactory
macro-economic environment, total non-traditional exports in 1983 could reach
about $365 million in current prices. Nevertheless, while export prospects
remain promising, it is clear that a coordinated and well planned export
drive is essential, if Costa Rica is to maximize its access to foreign
markets and achieve the relatively high level of export growth required for
the restoration of economic growth.
The Government's Export Development Program
43.       Traditionally, the Government's emphasis on export promotion and
development has been minimal, particularly since the bulk of exports, both
major agricultural and manufactured exports required only limited support as
long as the CACM functioned satisfactorily and as long as the overall country
economic situation permitted satisfactory access to foreign exchange and
other inputs required by the exporter. All this is now changing. The
Government is increasingly aware that not only must it restore and ensure a
stable macro-economic environment conducive to export development, but it
must also begin a coordinated effort to eliminate the existing anti-export
bias from current policies and programs, as well as undertake a concerted
effort to actively promote exports, especially non-traditional exports to
third markets outside the CACM. More specifically, this effort will require
i) the maintenance of a satisfactory exchange rate policy; ii) a revision of
export incentives and gradual elimination of export disincentives, including
certain export taxes; iii) a reshaping of tariff policies to begin to reduce
the current very high level of effective protection for many industrial
products; iv) the provision of adequate sources of domestic and external
financing for exports; and v) strengthening of existing institutions
concerned with export promotion and development.



- 14 -
44,       The above policy areas have been extensively discussed during the
course of preparation of the proposed loan and details of the Government's
current policy framework and approach are given in paras. 45 through 55
below. We expect to have further in-depth discussions of these matters as
part of the Bank's on-going effort to assist the Government in preparing its
medium and longer term economic recovery anci structural adjustment program.
45.       Exchange Rate Policy.  In the past, Costa Rican authorities have
not assigned high priority to exchange rate management in addressing balance
of payments problems. Indeed, the exchange rate has been used to keep
imported goods c:heap. As a consequence, although the country underwent
several devaluations from the early 1960s to late 1970s, in each of these
instances the protective intent of the devaluation outweighed the objective
of improving the incentive to export. This situation has now been reversed.
With the initial floating of the colon in late 1980 and subsequent adjust-
ments (see para 10), the exchange rate is relatively favorable to
exporters and shtould provide a reasonable incentive, provided financing and
other constraints are eliminated, tax and other disincentives reduced, and
the proposed unification of the exchange rate goes forward as planned.
However, future periodic adjustments of the rate may be needed to ensure that
Costa Rican exports remain competitive. As part of its stabilizatior,
program, the Government has expressed its intenticn to pursue such a flexible
exchange rate policy.
46.       Tariff Regime,  The tariff regime,, based mainly on various CACM
agreements, is the most important instrument providing protection to domestic
industry in Costa Rica, and therefore the principal element fostering an
inward looking orientation to the pattern of production. The main elements
of this regime include a series of charges or tariffs that are, or can be,
applied to imports from outside the region. At the same time, the system
exempts from some or all of these charges, a vast number of extra-regional
imports, usually on the grounds that they are intermediate or raw materials
or else capital goods inputs to domestic production. This results in a high
level of effective protection for Costa Rican industry. It also encourages a
high import intensity of production, and in general, the promotion of
regional or domestic import substitution at the expense of exporting to
non-regional markets.
47.       Given the importance of reducing this high level of effective
protection if Costa Rica is to encourage increased exports to third markets,
and to increase the domestic value added content of exports and of manufac-
tures for the domestic market, the Government has confirmed its intention to
define and subsequently carry out a program of action to correct the anti-
export bias of the existing trade regime. With this objective in mind, the
Government has initiated a review and analysis of policies in the area of
trade. The first step is to study proposed reforms to the Central American
Common Market external tariff and incentive structure to determine their
impact on Costa Rican industry and recommend whether further changes in the
overall tariff structure and other import tax and quantitative control
measures are warranted. The first phase of this review is expected to be
comoleted within the next few months-  We intend to continue to review these



- 15 -
matters with the Government during the course of discussions on its economic
recovery and structural adjustment program, with a view to assisting the
Government in finalizing and then implementing a phased program of reform.
48.       Export Taxes.  Costa Rica applies export taxes to all exports, the
highest being charged on the major traditional agriculture commodities,
including a 4 to 18 percent tax on the f.o.b. value of coffee, depending on
world prices; a 1 percent tax on bananas plus a flat tax of US$.95 per box
exported, making the effective tax on bananas 20 percent of f.o.b. value; and
a 1 percent tax on sugar and cacao. All other exports are currently subject
to a tax of 4 percent. In addition, in late 1981, the Assembly put in place
a new export tax based on the exchange rate differential between the official
C20 to US$1 rate and the interbank rate, which is currently set at C40 to
US$1.  The tax rates on this differential are currently 10 percent for coffee
and bananas, 5 percent on sugar, cocoa and non-traditional exports to the
CACM, and 1 to 5 percent on non-traditional exports to third markets, varying
by product and size of enterprise. The actual impact of the tax on the
exchange rate differential is to reduce the effective exchange rate received
by exporters to below the interbank rate.
49.       Export taxes have traditionally been relied upon by Government to
provide a substantial portion of its revenues. In 1983 they are expected to
account for about 34 percent of Central Government revenues, with the tax on
the exchange rate differential contributing about 18 percent of total export
taxes. The Government recognizes that taxes of this magnitude constitute a
major disincentive to exporters and run counter to the Government's export
development efforts. In the short term, however, pending an in-depth review
of its tax structure, which is being carried out in connection with prepara-
tion of the Government's medium-term structural adjustment and recovery
program, and subsequent agreement on alternative sources of revenue, the
Government feels that it has little choice but to continue to rely on export
taxes to reduce the fiscal deficit as part of its stabilization program. The
Government has stated, however, that i) it does not intend to put into effect
any new taxes on exports or increase the rates on existing export taxes, and
ii) it is preparing a tax reform program which inter alia will include
proposals for the elimination of taxes based on the exchange rate
differential and for the reduction of ad valorem taxes on non-traditional
exports. The Government's target date for completion of these proposals is
May 1, 1983, and upon completion the proposals are to be reviewed with the
Bank. The Government also intends to reduce the percentage of export
proceeds which are required to be converted at the official exchange rate
from five to about one percent, which reduces the impact of taxes on
exporters by about two percent of the f.o.b. value of exports. The
Government has also stated that it intends to begin implementing the
reductions in export taxes by no later than January 1, 1984.
50.       Export Incentives.  In order to help overcome, at least in part,
the anti-export bias of the trade regime, the Government introduced three
export incentive instruments during the early 1970s: i) the CAT (Certificado
de Abono Tributario), a tax credit of 15 percent of the f.o.b. value applied
to most non-traditional exports outside the CACM; ii) the CIEX (Certificado



- 16 -
de Incremento de Exportaciones), a tax credit for increases in exports; and
iii) drawback schemes. Of the three measures, the CAT is by far the most
important. Its use has grown dramatically from C 4.25 million in 1973-74 to
C 276 million in 1981-82, with processed and non-traditional agricultural
products the main beneficiaries of this scheme.  The CIEX has proved
relatively unimportant, while the drawback scheme, as currently designed,
offers few advantages over the presently available CACM fiscal incentives for
industrial development (REIFALDI) and is not widely used. In sum, the export
incentive system has not been able to counteract the high degree of import
protection provided. Moreover, the impact of these incentives is further
eroded by export taxes.
51.       Recognizing the need for incentive system reform, the Government is
currently considering changes in the existing Export Promotion Law, mainly to
revise the CAT scheme to improve its effectiveness as an incentive for
increasing non-traditional exports and domestic value added. The Government
intends to submit the proposed changes to the Assembly for consideration by
May 1, 1983.
institutional Framework for Export Promotion
52,        The Ministry of Finance, responsible for tax and tax related
incentive policies, the Ministry of Economy and Conmerce, responsiblFe for
trade policies, and the Central Bank, responsible for exchange rate and
financial policies, are the principal institutions having a policy making
role in the export and trade sector, In addition, policies and programs
related to the two key productive sectors of industry and agriculture are
developed by the M4inistry of Agriculture and Ministry of Industry, Energy and
Mines.  Specific export promotion policies and activities are the
responsibility of the Centro para la Promocion de las Exportaciones y de las
Inversiones (CENPRO).
53.       CENPRO was established in 1968 (as a semi-autonomous agency
attached to the Ministry of Economy and Commerce) with authority to develop
the non-traditional export sector and promote foreign investment. Ir the
area of exports, CENPRO's activities include: promotion; market and product
identification; technical assistance to firms; public information and educa-
tion; and policy formulation, including recommendations on incentives.   With
regard to foreign investment, CENPRO is expected to identify investment
opportunities, carry out promotional activities, and make policy recommenda-
tions, In addition, it administers the CAT and CIEX programs, as well as the
drawback scheme. CENPRO's management reports to a board comprised of the
Ministers of Economy, Agriculture, Planning and Foreign Affairs, a represen-
tative of the Central Bank and representatives of the private sector, The
Board is responsible for the appointment of CENPRO's executive director.
54,       CENPRO's accomplishments have been modest reflecting in part its
limited financial and human resources, Moreover CENPRO's work program has
been dispersed over too large a number of objectives, thus preventing it from
concentrating on those sectors, products, and markets, with the highest
potential. Recognizing these deficiencies and the importance of a more



- 17 -
effective export promotion agency, the Government has agreed to strengthen
CENPRO, both in terms of better programming and in terms of utilizing CENPRO
to improve coordination of Government programs and policies in the sector.
In this respect, the Government has established a sub-committee to its
Economic Council with responsibility for reviewing policy and other issues
connected with exports and foreign trade. The Government has also appointed
a high level advisor and coordinator for foreign trade with ministerial rank.
55.        While these improved coordinating arrangements are important,
their utility will be limited unless CENPRO is able to provide effective
support to the Sub-committee and Minister for Foreign Trade, both to prepare
issues for discussion and assist in implementing decisions taken. With this
in mind, and in order to strengthen and better focus its activities, CENPRO
has recently completed a revised work program restricted to priority
activities having the highest potential so as to best utilize CENPRO's
limited resources. To further support these efforts, agreement was reached
during negotiations on an annual review of CENPRO's work program, the first
such review to be carried out by the Government and the Bank by no later than
October 31, 1983 (Draft Guarantee Agreement Section 4.01). In addition, the
proposed loan would support a special technical assistance program, designed
to strengthen the Government's export and foreign investment promotion
efforts. (Details of this program are given in Part IV).
The Banking System and Export Financing Needs
56.        The National Banking System.  Costa Rica's financial system
consists of the Central Bank (BCCR); four publically owned commercial banks,
together with CODESA, a government owned development finance and holding
company; and 11 private banks, including 2 foreign owned banks, and over 30
private financieras. The system is dominated by the four nationalized
commercial banks, since only these public banks can receive demand deposits.
Moreover, only the four state banks and CODESA currently have access to
BCCR's rediscounting facilities. Competition among the public banks has
likewise been limited, since the Central Bank sets interest rates as well as
ceilings on credit lines by sector and user type. The public banks' isola-
tion from market forces and the insufficient attention paid to their operat-
ing efficiency and profitability, has seriously undermined the ability of the
financial system to supply the needs of the private sector. More seriously,
as the macro-economic situation worsened, especially given the massive deva-
luation and escalating inflation, the financial condition of the four banks
has deteriorated, as indicated by growing arrears and large foreign exchange
losses.
57.       Recognizing the importance of a viable, efficient banking system to
the overall economic recovery effort, the Government has confirmed its inten-
tion to carry out a detailed analysis of the public banking system, with
particular emphasis on i) the financial situation of the four banks; ii) the
legal and policy environment in which they operate; and iii) their organiza-
tional structure, policies, and procedures, with a view to modernizing their
operations and improving efficiency. Implementation of the study has already
started and we intend to review progress during the course of preparation of
the Government's economic recovery and structural adjustment program.



- 18 -
58.        The Government is also considering other measures to enhance the
efficiency and  Elexibility of the banking system.   These include amendments
to the Money and Central Bank Laws to permit i) the borrower to bear the
foreign exchange risk in foreign trade related transactions, and ii) private
bank access to the Central Bank's rediscount facilities. In addition, the
Government has agreed to the establishment of a revolving Export Financing
Fund (FOPEX) in the Central Bank open to both public and private banks.
Details of these actions are given in Part IV.
59.        The Central Bank (BCCR).  The Central Bank, established in 1950, is
responsible for monetary and credit policies which it implements partly
through interest rate policy, but mainly through setting ceilings on the
amount of credit that each commercial bank may extend for certain economic
activities. Rediscounting is used as a method of extending BCCR's credit
within the allocated ceilings, but not as an instrument of monetary policy.
Since an amendment to its organic law in 1970, BBCR has become more active in
the development field and has been administering several lines of credit for
the productive sectors, including four Bank financed projects, 3 in agricul-
ture and one in industry. In connection with the Bank financed Industrial
Credit Project (Loan No. 1599-CR) BCCR established an industrial development
fund, FODEIN, to provide medium and long-term financing for export oriented
and efficient import substitution projects carried out by private firms.
The proposed loan would enable BCCR to support export sector development
through the provision of needed working capital, although the bulk of the
export financing administration and analysis would be handled by the public
and private banks.
60.        Interest Rate Policy.  Traditionally, interest rate policy has been
viewed more as an incentive mechanism for promoting agriculture and industry,
than as a tool for resource mobilization.  The Government has maintained a
variety of preferential interest rates for various productive activities.
However, the deteriorating economic and financial environment has forced a
reduction in the amount of credit being made available under these preferen-
tial credit lines. At the same time, interest rates have been raised in
recent years, with the most recent increase in the basic deposit rate to 25
percent taking place in late 1982 as part of the Government's stabilization
program. As part of this same policy package, the Government also agreed to
raise preferential rates in agriculture to the level of the basic deposit
rate, leaving only small farmer interest rates at less than the basic deposit
rate. Lending to industry is currently set at three and one half points
above the basic deposit rate. In addition, since December 1982, a 1.5 per-
cent commission over and above the current on-lending rate has been applied
to all lending operations to support a special fund established by BCCR to
help cover foreign exchange losses of the four publi-c banks.  Recognizing
the importance of ensuring adequate resource mobilization, the Government's
stabilization program includes a commitment to consi-der further adjustments
in interest rates consistent with its efforts to reduce the inflation rate
over the coming year. In addition, in the context of the economic recovery
and structural adjustment program, the Bank's hope is to reach an understand-
ing with the Government to mnake interest rates positive over an agreed period
of time.



- 19 -
61.       Availability of Domestic Credit for Export Activities.  Costa
Rica's principal agricultural exports (especially coffee, bananas and beef),
have generally well established sources of external and domestic financing,
which has not been seriously affected by the deteriorating economic environ-
ment. Manufactured exports, on the other hand, including agro-industry, have
fared less well, especially to the extent they are dependent on the public
banks for credit. The bulk of credit to exporters of manufactured goods has
been in the form of short term working capital (pre-export financing) for the
purchase of inputs for export orders.  While this type of credit grew
rapidly, during the late 1960s and 1970s, as growth of manufactured exports
accelerated, the availability of pre-export financing has declined substan-
tially since then, as more and more resources were diverted from the private
to the public sector. Indeed, by 1981 such financing constituted only five
percent of manufactured export value. In addition, the bulk of the financing
available went to a limited number of large borrowers, forcing small and
medium sized firms to rely heavily on their own resources. For 1982, the
annual credit program of the Central Bank assigned some 30 percent of total
credit to the industrial sector to meet the needs of exporters. However,
while this constituted a substantial improvement in credit availability,
preliminary data for the year indicate that only a relatively small portion
of this amount was approved, reflecting various factors, including
difficulties in obtaining adequate and timely access to foreign exchange. In
addition, many manufacturing firms are facing serious financial difficulties,
mainly as a result of their external debt and the massive devaluation, thus
raising questions of creditworthiness, and limiting access to traditional
forms of credit.
62.       Although the national banking system is expected to be able to meet
most local currency credit requirements of exporters, during negotiations
the Central Bank confirmed that it intends to take further steps as appro-
priate to increase the export financing efforts of the banking system and
improve the efficiency of the export financing operations of the banks. In
addition, FOPEX would have access to domestic resources amounting to US$8
million equivalent, which would constitute the Central Bank's initial
contribution to the Fund (para. 72).
63.       Availability of Foreign Exchange for Export Activities.  Although
exporters have encountered some difficulties in local cost financing, the
most serious constraint faced by Costa Rican exporters, in the past 1-2
years, especially exporters of manufactured products, has been, and continues
to be a lack of timely and adequate access to foreign exchange. In the first
place, most foreign supplier credits, which financed the bulk of imported
inputs through 1980, have dried up in light of Costa Rica's balance of pay-
ment and external debt difficulties. Secondly, access to Central Bank
foreign exchange resources has been and will continue to be seriously
constrained by the limited availability of foreign exchange given estimated
requirements for debt service and essential imports. To overcome this
constraint and help ensure access of exporters to foreign exchange, the
Government is establishing FOPEX, which will operate on a revolving basis and
thus provide a continuing source of foreign exchange. The initial foreign
exchange resources of FOPEX would be provided by the proposed Loan.



- 20 -
6t4.      Demand for Foreign Exchange Resources in 1983 and 1984.  Demand
estimates for pre-export financing are linked to the value of non-traditional
exports projected for 1983 and 1984, which in turn depend on a variety of
factors, including the speed with which the economy can be reactivated and
new or expanded markets found abroad. Taking into account expected
constraints, the total value of non-traditional exports in 1983, based on
Government projections, is projected to increase over 1982 to about US$365
million. The cost of imported inputs for this level of exports is estimated
at about US$130 mi:Llion. In view of current constraints on commercial
lending in foreign exchange, only a small portion of this amount is expected
to be financed froma external commercial sources. Similarly, the Central Bank
cannot be expected to provide any significant financing out of its own
resources, especially given the expected heavy demand on available resources
to meet needs for diebt service and essential imports. In view of this, there
remains a substantial foreign exchange gap to be met from other sources. The
proposed Bank loan would help meet a portion of this need. Other support
would be provided through the US$5.0 million being made available for
pre-export financing under the Bank's existing Industrial Credit Operation
(Loan 1599-CR) as amended and approved by the Executive Directors last
August.  In addition, the Government has also recently obtained a loan for
industrial reactivation from the Inter American Development Bank (IDB) which
will also provide financing to exporters for the purchase of imported inputs.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
Introduction
65.        Since the expansion of Costa Rican exports, especially non-
traditional exportS outside the CACM, is a central element in Costa Rica's
emergency recovery program, the Government has asked the Bank for assistance
in relieving the current severe shortage of foreign exchange for imported
production inputs which is one of the main constraints facing exporters of
non-traditional products at this time. The Government's export development
program was first reviewed by a mission which visited Costa Rica at the end
of June 1982, with appraisal of the proposed Export Development Loan taking
place in October 1982. Negotiations were held. in Washington in February
and early March 1983, with the Costa Rican delegation headed by Mr. Luis
Bell, Director of External Financing in the Ministry of Finance.
Loan Amount and Objectives
66.        The proposed loan of US$25.2 million equivalent, including a
capitalized front-end fee of US$0.2 million, would be made to the Central
Bank of Costa Rica. US$24.7 million would be channeled into FOPEX which
would be established in the Central Bank, and which would be utilized to
provide working capital financing of imported inputs needed by exporters of
non-traditional goods. US$0.3 million would be provided for technical
assistance, mainly to strengthen the Government's export and foreign



- 21 -
investment promotion activities, in order to provide more focused and
specific marketing and other guidance to Costa Rican exporters and potential
foreign investors.
67.       The principal objective of the loan is to support the expansion and
development of Costa Rica's exports, by facilitating increased utilization of
installed capacity and assisting in the opening up of new markets outside the
CACM, thus helping foster a more sustained export drive.  Since insufficient
foreign exchange for imported inputs remains a serious constraint of the
sector, the proposed loan will directly assist in alleviating this problem.
Moreover, because FOPEX will operate on a revolving basis, exporters will be
assured of a reliable source of foreign exchange, thus providing them with
added confidence in their efforts to expand or restructure their operations,
and find new markets. The Government also expects that the proposed loan, by
providing Bank financial and technical support of the Costa Rican export
sector, would help stimulate new investment and the return of capital from
abroad, as well as help restore confidence of foreign private banks and
encourage a possible resumption of commercial lending.
Export Financing Fund
68.       Nature and Objectives.  The Government has agreed to the establish-
ment of a permanent revolving Export Financing Fund (FOPEX) to provide finan-
cing in local currency and foreign exchange for pre-export and export
financing (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). FOPEX, which has been
established in the Central Bank (BCCR), will be run as a two-tier operation,
with both the public and private commercial banks acting as intermediaries.
Since exporters of traditional products (i.e., coffee, meat, bananas and
sugar) have access for the most part to adequate sources of financing, access
to FOPEX would be limited to exporters of non-traditional goods, mainly
manufactured and agro-industrial items, but also including non-traditional
agriculture products. Taking into account the Government's goals of
developing an efficient export sector and increasing non-traditional exports,
FOPEX's evaluation criteria for determining eligible exporters would stress
the financial and economic soundness and balance of payments impact of export
transactions it would help finance.
69.       Since the existing monopoly of access by public banks to BCCR
resources tends to promote inefficient and often relatively slow utilization
of funds, the Government is also seeking ways to permit a broader and more
flexible flow of resources into the banking system. The Government's deci-
sion to include private banks in the proposed export financing scheme is,
therefore, an important step toward improving the overall efficiency of the
banking system. To accomplish this objective, the Government intends to
submit to the Assembly a draft law providing for the establishment of FOPEX
as an autonomous entity in the Central Bank, with its own Board of Directors
including both representatives of the private and public sectors, and also
providing for the direct access of private Banks to FOPEX resources. The
Government has stated that this legislation would be submitted to the
Assembly by no later than May 1, 1983. In the meantime, pending passage of
this legislation, and to avoid any undue delay in ensuring access of private



- 22 -
banks to the proceeds of the proposed loan, the Board of the Central Bank has
(i) established FOPEX as an operational unit within the Central Bank; and
(ii) agreed to arrangements to utilize CODESA, the state owned development
bank and holding company, as a temporary channel to permit private bank
access to FOPEX resources. The arrangements with CODESA, which has legal
access to both the Central Bank and private banks, have been reviewed by the
Bank and found to be satisfactory.  They are designed to ensure the efficient
transfer of resources through the private banks to exporters.
70.       Organ:Lzation and Staff.  The detailed regulations and procedures
required for the operation of FOPEX were discussed and agreed during negotia-
tions and approved by the Central Bank's Board at the time FOPEX was estab-
lished. The Central Bank has also established an administrative unit to
operate FOPEX and appointed a quali'fied director selected from the senior
professional staff of BCCR. The unit's initial staff will include at least
three professionals and two assistants, but will be expanded as operations
grow. The Central Bank has agreed to maintain an adequate level of qualified
staffing to ensuire the efficient operation of FOPEX (Draft Loan Agreement
Section 3.02(d)).
71.       Although FOPEX will initially be operated directly by the Central
Bank, it will, once the FOPEX Law is approved, have the legal character of an
autonomous entity, with its own Board of Directors. Pending passage of the
FOPEX Law, however, the Board will act in an advisory capacity, with the
management of FOPEX being carried out by its director and the Board of the
Central Bank. The Board will be composed of representatives from BCCR, both
public and private commercial banks, CENPRO, and private sector exporters, in
order to .ensure satisfactory operating policies consistent with the
Governmentts export promotion strategy.  Until the FOPEX Law is approved,
private sector representation will be carried out through CENPRO, and the
private banks wi'll be represented by CODESAR
72.       Resources.  The initial resources of FOPEX will consist of perma-
nent BCCR capitalization of US$8 million equivalent in local currency
together with US$24.7 million of the proposed loan, BCCR approval of its
contribution to FOPEX will be a condition of effectiveness of the pLoposed
loan, However, only US$1 million in local currency will be required to be
actually paid in to FOPEX Drior to loan effectiveness (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(a)).  The remaining US$7 million equivalent will be paid in
according to a schedule satisfactory to the Bank (Draft Loan Agreement
Section 3,02(b)) and is expected to be fully paid in by mid-1984. The
proposed local currency contribution assumes that about 75 percent of FOPEX
resources will be needed to meet foreign exchange demand, with only 25
percent of resources allocated to meet domestic financing needs. Any addi-
tional domestic financing requirements of exporters will be covered under the
Government's annual credit program, mainly to meet exporter needs for locally
produced inputs. In addition, the Borrower has indicated that pre-export and
export financing resources obtained by BCCR from other donors or
international lending institutions after FOPEX is operational will also be
channeled through FOPEX.  All interest and other income earned by FOPEX will
accrue to it and 'become part of its permanent resources (Draft Loan



- 23 -
Agreement Section 3.02(g)). In addition, the Borrower will be required to
maintain separate foreign exchange and local currency accounts in the name of
FOPEX to ensure that all foreign exchange transactions, once repaid, remain
available to FOPEX in foreign exchange for future operations (Draft Loan
Agreement Section 3.02(f)). Although FOPEX could in theory undertake export
financing, it will initially concentrate only on pre-export financing.
Financing of Exporting Firms
73.       Eligibility, Review and Supervision.  Under the proposed scheme,
all firms exporting products other than coffee, bananas, meat or sugar will
be eligible to submit applications for pre-export financing to the participa-
ting financial intermediaries. The applications will provide information on
their financial statements, past export records, export plans for the next
twelve months and financing requirements to carry out the export plans. The
financial intermediary will be required to determine the viability of the
firm and its export plans, with the final selection of exporting firms being
undertaken by FOPEX, taking into account inter alia: (i) the firm's past
export record; (ii) its potential for export earnings and market prospects;
and (iii) the firm's financial standing. All export firms producing non-
traditional goods whose annual exports represent at least 10 percent of total
sales, or 5 percent of total sales in the case of first time exporters, will
be eligible for FOPEX financing.
74.       Each firm selected by FOPEX will open a line of credit with its
financial intermediary for foreign exchange and local currency to finance
inputs needed for its export orders over a twelve month period. To help
ensure rapid utilization of FOPEX funds, FOPEX will not approve additional
pre-export financing for export firms having an excess of US$800,000
equivalent in balances outstanding (Draft Loan Agreement Section 3.04(b).
75.       Financial intermediaries will undertake systematic supervision of
the utilization of funds available under the credit lines opened for the
exporting firms. FOPEX will review the intermediaries' mandatory semi-annual
reports about utilization of resources and propose corrective action if
individual firms are not drawing upon their respective credit lines as
planned (e.g., reallocation of funds to exporting firms whose export orders
justify additional financing).
76.       Pre-export Financing Arrangements.  To make use of the financing
available under their credit lines, exporting firms will follow normal
commercial procedures for pre-export financing, with FOPEX's access to
foreign exchange resources through the Bank loan being utilized to make up
for the lack of commercial bank foreign exchange resources. Current Costa
Rican law, pending proposed changes to the Money Law (para. 58), does not
permit the foreign exchange risk to be passed on to the ultimate borrower for
normal lending operations which must be denominated and repaid in local
currency. In view of this, the proposed financing arrangements have been
designed in such a way that (i) the foreign exchange transactions will be
denominated entirely in foreign currency, and (ii) they will take the legal
form of purchase and sale of letters of credit or other negotiable export



- 24 -
documents, the net result being that the exchange risk will in effect be
borne by the exporter. The mechanics of the scheme, which are spelled out in
the FOPEX procedures, are summarized below.
77,       Eligible exporters, having obtained a letter of credit (LC) or
other negotiable document from a foreign buyer, will discount such a document
with their local financial intermediary receiving (i) up to 80 percent of the
value of the export order in the form of an advance for purchasing needed
inputs (both in foreign exchange and domestic currency), and (ii) an
agreement by the inatermediary to pay the remaining balance (in local
currency) once the export order is shipped and the LC or other negotiable
document can be sold in the acceptance market or the issuing bank asked to
make payment.  To obtain the foreign and local currency resources needed to
cover the advance payments, the financial intermediary will, in turn,
rediscount the LC or other negotiable doc-ument with FOPEX which will provide
both the foreign and local portion of the advance out: of its own resources.
78.       FOPEX will disburse the foreign exchange required for imported
inputs against forE!ign supplier invoices to be submitted by the export firm
to its financial inrtermediary,  The foreign exchange made available to the
financial intermediary will be used either for direct payment to the foreign
supplier or to cover the issuance of a letter of credit or other document in
favor of the export firm's foreign supplier.  Advances in local currency,
using FOPEX's local currency resources, will be made available directly to
the eXDort firm upon discounting of the LC or other negotiable document with
the finlancial intermediary.
79,       Once the export order is filled, and in order to recover its
advance, FOPEX will follow the following procedures. First, since FOPEX
will legally own the LC or other negotiable document rediscounted by the
financial intermediary it will authorize the financial intermediary to
requiest payment for the LC or other documents from the issuing bank or sell
the export documernts on its behalf in the acceptance market,  Second,
proceeds of the sale will be applled first to repay FOPEX's foreign currency
advance, and its commission, with the balance being s3ld to the Central Bank
for local currency at the interbank exchange rate in effect on that date,
FOPEX will also retain that portion of the proceeds necessary to cover any
local currency advaances made to the exporter plus its commission in local
currency. The remaining balance of the local currency proceeds will be
passed on to the intermediary which will deduct its commission, plus any
local currency advances it had made, before paying the balance to the
exporter.
80.        The proposed financing mechanism is modeled after a pre-export
financing facility introduced into an ongoing Inidustrial Credit operation
managed by FODEIN, an Industrial Development Fund established in the Central
Dank as part of a Bank-financed industrial credit projet, for which a loan of
US$15.0 million was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1978 (Loan
No. 1599-CR). As approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982, US$5.0
million of this loan is being made available for short-term working capital
financing of non-traLditional exports, in order to acce!lerate disbursement of



- 25 -
the loan in the face of reduced demand for long-term investment financinge
The full US$5 million facility was committed by October 1982; however, due
mainly to delays in processing of applications by the participating public
banks, disbursements have only recently gotten underway. However,
disbursements are expected to accelerate in the next one to two months.
81.       Lending Terms.  To cover the cost of each pre-export financing
transaction, the exporter will pay a commission on that portion of the
advance made available in foreign currency for the period from the date the
foreign exchange payment to the foreign supplier is made to the date the
foreign exchange proceeds are repatriated. Given the commercial nature of
the transactions, the commission to be charged will be based on the 6 month
LIBOR rate in effect at the time the advance was made, plus a spread
sufficient to cover the costs of FOPEX and the financial intermediary. The
maximum duration of any one financing transaction would not exceed 365 days.
A similar procedure will apply to local currency advances, except that the
commission to be paid will be based on the Central Bank deposit rate
(currently 25.0 percent), plus a satisfactory spread to cover costs. The
intermediary will retain that portion of commission sufficient to cover its
costs, with the remaining commission being paid to FOPEX, Agreement on the
commissions to be charged and the percentages to be retained by the
intermediaries was reached during negotiations and incorporated in the FOPEX
Procedures.  In addition, the Borrower has agreed to review the adequacy of
these terms and conditions with the Bank in January 1984, with any required
changes to be put into effect promptly thereafter (draft Loan Agreement
Section 3.07).
82.       Guarantees.  FOPEX will also establish a guarantee scheme to reduce
the risk of default, which seems to be an obstacle to increasing bank lending
to exporting firms. Under this guarantee scheme FOPEX would, upon request of
the financial intermediary, guarantee 50 percent of the amount of the inter-
mediary's advance. The actual amount of FOPEX's payment under the guarantee
would be determined in each case after all proceedings against the defaulting
exporting firm have been concluded. The proposed level of guarantee is
considered adequate by BCCR and potential FOPEX intermediaries but, if neces-
sary, it could be adjusted in the future. For its guarantee FOPEX will
charge the beneficiary (through the intermediary) a fee of I to 2 percent on
the advance amount. The scheme is expected to be self-supporting and FOPEX
will have sufficient permanent resources to cover any temporary excess
payments without reducing its lending activities. However, to eliminate any
risk for FOPEX, BCCR will be responsible for FOPEX's guarantee obligations.
FOPEX's guarantee plus the value of inputs purchased with the advance pledged
as collateral is expected to provide adequate security coverage. The details
of the proposed guarantee scheme have been incorporated into the FOPEX
Regulations.
Participating Intermediaries
83.       Eligibility.  All commercial banks that form part of the National
Banking System will in principle be eligible to participate in the pre-export
financing scheme provided they agree to follow the prescribed pre-export



- 26
financing operating regulations. To ensure a sufficient number of inter-
mediaries to activate and effectively operate the pre-export financing
mechanism, completion of participation agreements between FOPEX and a minimum
of six banks is a condition of loan effectiveness (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(b).
84.       Under terms of the participation agreement, each participating
commercial bank will be expected to assign adequatie professional staff for:
(i) reviewing exporter applications for lines of credit; (ii) timely and
accurate processing of export transactions based ona discounting of the
letters of credit or other negotiable document; and (iii) providing advice
and technical assistance to exporting firms as needed for the preparatior and
execution of export transactions.  The participating intermediaries will also
obtain appropriate legal arrangements with each export firm to ensure satis-
factory utilization of each line of credit.
85.     Present Capabilities.  Because of a relatively large volu.me of
lending to exporters, Banco Nacional de Costa Rica (BNCR) and Banco de Costa
Rica (BCR) already have suffIcient professional staff to review exporter
applications and process export transactions. Their performance under the
US$5.0 million pre-export financing facility under FODEIN (para. 80) has,
however, been less than satisfactory, mainly due to lengthy evaluation
procedures and unduly conservative collateral requirements.  This will be
corrected in the proposed FOPEX operation through improved implementation
arrangements and procedures being incorporated in the FOPEX regulations and
contracts with participating intermediaries. The other two public banks,
Banco Anglo-Costarricense (BAC) and Banco de Credito Agricola Cartago (BCAC),
have so far had relatively limited experience in pre-export financing. The
private banks' pre-export financing has been based mainly on the use of
external lines of credit which now represent only a limited source of financ-
ing in Costa Rica. The quality and speed of their services to exporters
appear to have been satisfactory. Since most of the banks already possess
the basic skills necessary to operate the proposed pre-export financing
system, it is expected that the system's operating regulations and guarantee
scheme, coupled wlith an effective export developmenit program, will provide a
satisfactory framework for the timely and efficient. financing of exporting
firms.
Procurement and Disbursement
86.       Export firms will follow normal commercial practice for procurement
of raw materials and other inputs from countries and territories referred to
in the current edition of the Bank's procurement gtuidelines. Since procure-
ment for imports to be made with FOPEX resources will depend on individual
decisions by many enterprises for a large number of items, international
competitive bidding is not practicable.  Procurement of individual contracts
costing the equivalent of US$125,000 or more will, however, be supported by
an explanation of the procurement process and decision, including evidence
that the purchasers had sought price quotations from competitive sources
(Draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.10).  Consulting services to be financed out
of the proceeds cif the loan will be selected in accordance with procedures



- 27 -
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981L
87.       The proceeds of the Loan will finance:  (i) up to 100 percent of
the c.i.f. cost of imported raw materials, spare parts and other imported
inputs; and (ii) up to 100 percent of the total foreign exchange cost of the
technical assistance component (Draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1).
88.       Disbursements out of the Bank loan for pre-export financing will be
made on a reimbursement basis using statements of expenditure. The
supporting documentation will be retained by FOPEX for periodic review by
Bank supervision missions. However, in order to ensure that FOPEX will have
ready access to foreign exchange, especially during the initial start-up
phase of the revolving fund, we have agreed to establish a Special Account
within FOPEX to which the Bank will make an initial deposit of US$4.0 million
at the Borrower's request as soon as the loan is declared effective (Draft
Loan Agreement Section 2.03). This advance disbursement is expected to cover
operations of FOPEX for its average 2 months of operation. Establishment of
the Special Account will ensure that FOPEX has sufficient foreign exchange
resources on-hand to permit an efficient discounting of letters of credit or
other negotiable documents and avoid long delays in processing of payments to
suppliers which could unnecessarily hamper export operations. FOPEX will
request replenishment of the Special Account whenever it had accumulated
sufficient disbursements to warrant submitting a withdrawal application.
Reimbursement by the Bank to the Special Account would be in US dollars at
the rate of exchange in effect on the date the Special Account was debited.
89.       Based on estimated import requirements for export, and considering
other resources likely to be available for pre-export financing, it is
expected that about two-thirds of the pre-export financing component will be
disbursed by end 1984, with the remaining funds disbursed in the first half
of' 1985.  With this in mind, the Closing Date has been set at June 30, 1985.
Since the loan is for short-term working capital financing, the Bank's
standard IDF disbursement profile does not apply. Disbursement of the
Technical Assistance component of the loan is estimated to be completed in
about 18 months after loan effectiveness.
Auditing and Reporting Requirements
90.       FOPEX will submit to the Bank quarterly reports on the utilization
of funds by the participating intermediaries and exporting firms under the
proposed loan (Draft Loan Agreement Section 3.08(a)).   FOPEX's accounts,
including the proposed Special Account (para. 88) will be audited annually by
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and following accounting principles satis-
factory to the Bank (Draft Loan Agreement Sections 4.01 and 4.02). In
addition, in order to review the overall impact of the loan and the benefits
derived from the initial years of FOPEX's operation, the Borrower will
prepare the standard completion report within six months following the final
disbursement of proceeds from the loan (Draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.08(c)).



- 28 -
Technical Assistance Component
91.     The proposed loan would also provide funds to cover a portion of the
foreign exchange cost of a technical assistance program to assist the
Government's export promotion and foreign investment efforts, Including
training of Government personnel in these activities. This program, which is
expected to be financed jointly with the UNDP, is estimated to cost about
US$500,3000 ihcluding contingencies, of which the Bank loan would finance
about US$300,000, with the remaining US$200,000 being contributed by the
UNDP, Since the International Trade Center (ITC) is already executing an
ongoing program of assistance to CENPRO which will end in April 1983, the
Government is requesting that ITC also act -as executing agency for the
proposed Bank/UNDP Project. Nevertheless, the Bank will remain closely
_nvolved in supervision of the program, including participation in formal
reviews of progress under the program. In addition, the selection, terms of
reference and terms of contract for consultants financed under the loan will
be agreed with the Bank (Draft Guarantee Agreement Section 3.03). Since
responsibility for carrying out the technicail assistance program rests with
the Government, the Central Bank will make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank for transferring that portion of the lcian proceeds required for the
technical assistance program (Draft Loan Agreement Section 3.01(b)).
02.       The principal components of the proposed technical assistance
program include the following:
(il Export Promotion Advisor,  A full-time export promotion
advisor, will assist the Government and CENPRO in designing
and putting into operation an export promotion program,
including assisting CENPRO in the continued revision and
implementation of its work program; developing an export
Dromotion program focusing on several high potential products;
organizing pilot commercial missions and promotional trips
abroad; and reviewing export financing, guarantee and insurance
arriangements. The advisor will also assist in the preparation
and carrying out of a training prograim for CENPRO staff. Twelve
man-months of consultant services are being budgeted for this
purpose, with an additional 3 man-months allocated for
specialized short term consultants to support the advisors work
program.  The total cost of this component, is estimated at
US$135,000, including the 15 man-months of consultant services
and a supporting budget to finance promotional materials and
services, The average man-month cost (including salary,
overhead fee, international travel, allowances, and subsistence)
is estimated to be US$8,100.
(ii) Investment Promotion Advisor, A second full-time advisor will
be provided to assist the Government and CENPRO in the develop-
ment: and execution of a program to promote foreign investment in
export-oriented industries. The advisor's duties will include a
review of existing legislation and regulations with a view to
proposing legal and other changes to improve the climate for



- 29 -
foreign investment; establishing a mechanism for identifying
investment opportunities and preparing project profiles; and
designing and helping implement a program to promote identified
investments, including training of CENPRO staff as appropriate.
Twelve man-months of consultant services are being budgeted for
this advisor, with additional funds being allocated for four to
six promotional trips abroad and preparation of supporting mate-
rials. The total cost of this component is estimated at
US$110,000. The average man-month cost including salary, over-
head fee, international travel, allowances, and subsistence, is
estimated to be about US$8,100.
(iii)  Market Studies.  A study to identify potential exportable pro-
ducts has recently been completed under the existing ITC Techni-
cal Assistance Program. Based on the results, ITC intends to
prepare detailed marketing studies to determine the feasibility
of exporting two of the identified products. Since more than
two potential products have been identified, the proposed tech-
nical assistance program includes financing for up to five addi-
tional market studies. About 12 man-months of consultant
services will be required for a total cost of about US$125,000
including market research abroad. The average man-month cost
based on salary, overhead fee, international travel and
subsistence, is estimated at US$10,400.
(iv) Support of Export Marketing Companies and Selected Export
Firms. Costa Rica's private sector is in the process of
establishing a number of trading companies, export consortia,
and other marketing organizations. Since many of these trading
entities are for the most part newly established, they are
facing various organizational and other start-up difficulties.
To assist a selected group of export firms or trading groups in
improving export performance, the proposed technical assistance
program includes up to 6 man-months of consultant assistance,
to be utilized by CENPRO to provide on a group or individual
basis expert assistance to review product selection, marketing,
export financing and shipping arrangements, and supply and
contracting arrangements. The export firms or trading
organizations will be selected by CENPRO with the assistance of
the export promotion advisor. Total cost of the program is
estimated at about US$48,000, with an average man-month cost of
US$8,000, including salary, overhead fee, international travel
and subsistence.
(v) Other Studies, Training and Support Services, In order to
complement the above technical assistance, an additional 6
man-months of consultant assistance will be provided to prepare:
an assessment of the feasibility of and proposed arrangements
for providing pre-shipment export finance guarantees and export
credit insurance; and an evaluation of CENPRO's existing and
proposed new offices abroad. The estimated cost of these stud-
ies is US$42,000, with an average cost per man-month of



- 30 -
US$7,000, including salary, overhead fee, international travel
and Subsistence.  In addition, US$15,000 is being budgeted for
training of local personnel abroad, and a further US$25,000 is
being budgeted for local UNDP support services and
contingencies.
93.        In addition to the Technical Assistance Program described above,
the Government has also agreed to carry out a study of export firms in Costa
Rica as a means of maintaining an up-to-date picture of export matters, and
to help guide the Government's export promotion and policy formation
efforts (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04).  The study will be carried
out on a semi-annual basis by CENPRO and the Instituto de Investigaciones en
Ciencias Economicas (IICE) of the University of Cost:a Rica, a first such
study having already been completed recently by IICE. An estimated 48
man-months of local consultant services will be required for the initial two
years of the survey, with an estimated cost of about US$45,000 equivalent
(about US$950 equivalent per man-month). The Government stated that it will
make the necessary funds available to CENPRO to finance the carrying out of
the survey on a continuing basis. The next survey is expected to -be carried
out in the second half of 1983.
Benefits and Risks
94.     By providing exporters access to a reliable and readily available
source of foreign exchange, the proposed loan, through the revolving export
fund, is expected to meet an estimated 30 percent of the foreign exchange
requirements in the 1983/85 period for non-traditional exports, and continue
to provide a substantial part of foreign exchange needs thereafter. About
120 exporting firms are expected to benefit from the pre-export financing
scheme, accounting for the bulk of exporters of non-traditional products.
The proposed loan would constitute an important contribution to the Govern-
ment's overall export development and economic recovesry program by helping to
increase the value of non-traditional exports, and facilitating improved
utilization of existing capacity in manufacturing and non-traditional agri-
culture, thus generating new employment and increasing incomes.  The proposed
loan will also facilitate the establishment by the Government of a full
fledged export financing fund, and support its efforts to provide better
guidance to exporters through CENPRO.
95.     Given the difficulties associated with the opening up of new markets,
particularly during a period of slower growth of the world economy, the
expected increase in exports may not materialize as rapidly as the Government
currently estimates. Nevertheless, the foreign exchange resources being made
available under the proposed loan, would still contribute to an increase in
exports even if at a lower rate of growth. Export performance will also
depend to a great extent on tne overall improvement in the management of the
Costa Rican economy and the enhanced confidence which an effective stabiliza-
tion program should generate. As such, any problems or undue delays in
controlling the public sector deficit, maintaining a sound foreign exchange
regime to ensure export competitiveness, and difficulties in ensuring
adequate access of the private sector to credit, could also have a negative



- 31 -
effect on export development. However, given the actions of the Government
to date, including its agreement with the IMF, we remain cautiously opti-
mistic that the Government will be able to provide a suitable environment for
promoting exports. Given the establishment under the loan of a new and
untested institutional framework for export financing, there is also a risk
of initial delays in the processing of pre-export financing transactions by
the intermediaries and FOPEX. To minimize any potential delays the Bank
will supervise the loan closely during the initial six months of FOPEX's
operations. Finally, since the Government will have to obtain Assembly
approval of the loan, its effectiveness date could be delayed if for any
reason Assembly action is also delayed, although the Government has indicated
it intends to make every effort to accelerate consideration of the loan given
the importance attached to export development.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
96.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Central Bank of Costa Rica and
the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Costa Rica
and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separa-
tely. The most important features and special conditions of the draft Loan
and Guarantee Agreements are summarized in Annex III, Section III. Special
conditions of effectiveness include: (i) approval by the Borrower of an
equity contribution to FOPEX of US$8 million equivalent, with an initial pay-
ment of US$1 million equivalent made to FOPEX; and (ii) completion of
contractual arrangements for pre-export financing with at least six financial
intermediaries.
97.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
98.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
By E. Stern
Attachments
April 12, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 32 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
COSTA RICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COSTA RICA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/
TOTAL              50.7                                  MOST RECENT              MIDDLE IMCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRIC'ULTURAL      20.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   410.0        690.0   1370 .0                    1902.0                     2323.9
EMERGY COSSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       304.1        541.4     811.9                    1259.9                     2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1236.0         1732.0    2213.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 36.5           39.7      43.4                      65.7                       47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          3.?
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            4.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. ICM.                        24.4         34.2      42.6                      35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. PM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       85.2        93.9      105.6                      92.5                      155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 IRS.                           47.5         46.1      38.3                      39.7                       31.1
15-64 SRS.                           49.5        50.7       58.1                      56.1                       61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.0          3.2       3.7                       4.2                        7.7
POPU:LATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                                3.7          3.4       2.5                       2.4                        1.6
URBAh                                4.5          4.2       3.3                       3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.8         34.9      28.8                      31.4                       23.6
CRUDE IEATE RATE (PER THOUSAND)        9.9          6.5        5.2                      8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRRDP CTION RATE               3.4          2.5        1.7                      2.1                        1.6
F.PAILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         . .        19.0      22.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       64.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF 0OD PRODSCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            85.0       100.0      108.0                     110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQLIREHMETS)                    106.3       107.7      112.8/c                   108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)            57.2         58.8      59.2/7                    66.0                       92.7
OF WHICE ANIYAL AND PULSE         30.9        31.9       33.4/c                    34.0                       35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        6.0          5.8       0.6                       5.6                        9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    61.6           66.9      70.4                      64.2                       67.6
IMpART MORTALITY RATE (PER
THSouANDI)                            71.0         70.0      24.2                      64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ''        74.0       77.0/d                    65.6
LRBAN                                 . .        98.0      95.0/d                    78.9
RURAL                                 ..         59.0      62.0/d                    43.9
ACCESS T0 EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPUILATION)
TOTAL                                 ,.         52.0      93.10/                    59.3
URBA}N                                ..         66.0      94.0/e                    75.3
RURAL                                           43.0       93.0/e                    30.0
POPUIAT.ON PER PHYSICIAI            2698.7       1623.3    1390.4/c                  1617.3                     1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        706.3        477.1     453.4/c                  1063.5                      634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              220.3       253.1      287.9/c                   477.4                      286.8
URBAN                                 ,,       169.3      196.8/c                   679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                 ..      4299.4          . .                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         28.1       33.0/c                   27.3                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE  0I7E OF HOUSEHOLD
TO-AL                                5.o/f        5.6
URBAN                                5.47          ..         .
RURAL                                6.C/P         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.5/P        1.3         ..
URBAN                                1.3/f         ..
RUJRAL                               1.7/I         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               55.0/f         ..      59.0/h
URBAN                               93.5/f         ..      87.07.                               
RURAL                               32.077         ..      37.07S



-3 3-                                                   ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                    Page  2  of  6
COSTA RICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COSTA RICA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMAE)  -
MO0ST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 96.0        110.0      107.0                    104.3                      102.9
MALE                  97.0       110.0      108.0                    106.4                      107.1
FEMALE                95.0       109.0      106.0                     103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 21.0         28.0       48.0                     41.3                       60.2
MALE                  20.0        27.0       45.0                     40.4                       66.4
FEMALE                21.0        29.0       52.0                      41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  19.1           9.8       22.5                     33.7                       31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             25.9        29.8       28.0                     29.9                       25.8
SECONDARY                          20.5/_       16.5       18.3                     16.7                       22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        88.4/i    90.0                      79.1                       75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.9         22.7       32.2/d                   42.8                       51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         62.3         75.1       83.3                    270.5                      157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.4        57.7       74.5                    107.7                      123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENEKAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   87.4       102.2       71.7                     63.7                      112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                      2.7                        4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        375.4       527.0      753.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   16.1         18.0       20.5                     24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.2        42.1       29.0                     31.3                       38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.5         20.4       23.0                     23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.4        30.4       34.0                     33.6                       44.5
MALE                                  50.6        49.5       53.7                     50.4                       56.3
FEMALE                                 9.9        11.0       14.1                     16.8                       32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7          1.6       1.2                       1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.6          54.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7           3.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0          12.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                    518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                    371.1                      406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
aong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /I  1975; /f 1963; /I 1973.
/h Percent of subscribers; /i 1962.
May, 1982



34  -                                               ~~~~~ANNEX  I
OF ~Sola   - -,7c-,-TGLPage    3   of
caolo-co(ioct  t-ooti         It(n  ctnoo,ceV.t  'n,tth1-     ,   s,t1-iO,tatti   stic   an-yto oscnt  ion. coth  ocIcco   and   si   el.
Aifocil ola'oncoitaisa  t, a ,teo  I-andatefec tet  etcioc.   (Cde   eteeet,ao2ceetc  tt iot,o  he ioitcien  tp odaen o. etatal:i to  I le
cv  cttos.  nooot,statis  ooc tid  t  nelnta  seratn o  otct tof(ttnt  toooto> (ciioz,ast-09 illi   oiitoi   t
am    it'~~~~~~~_   _'-d-    79a   ot,  eeetitti. f pii  (idnspreiea  t                                                aI      se
?n. 710  Co,t(TA_o(1    - TotF phi, toett  itnfni-tet -    - concnitcac,t  Zmt,  o-                   flfcc      i' at Icidd    jt-e1  -,oapotf,:         nata,tnean
ci. td by  -ateita -          in-i coea ene -I   e   inletl   t92-    botial; (eb                   tdedia.  atar   o  pan-r--lp  co -lad by a Pccaiooae  (ob-
)0,7  ted (919 One                                                                                     dt.tnsnt.ens   lof.e                           ttot   leni-pttatocet 
datote  se              II.,ld " faid  -s;a  of  oddfca   ai    it    For- tra
oiet.                                                                                    ,iiaoit .ao. nec ,t:7a .tett.oli-ed -   Itel  otiho  ifacsaod    toedtta 
ka lil.v'ria  f ca.~~~~    15"C' ISM.  hd 15fito  tatI If I dloid   iiwtt .int e,,                                he~~d.i. "-.
ClolOtltCl - tool. jIAllIlt-oll                                                                        L   L..   -        f   d.
(Ottl{C,g1elttone,~  Ci~A-contnc-tod,-C   iCo   ,101   oA iole                                     lifi
jrb.a P-1-ir,   .9 --il ~~~~-13 a" -ti-   1.  -ecc10  i.--s n2r-loc,    otnte:cotitl-eca,teLoottl
icoto.  ooon¼es; 1961, (ef7, ted  list dant.                    tee noiet,ee.A   ec .nantsniet. ;-tcpeseo.~~~~~~~~~~~~t.L1,   h-   aA L   I xiiis
j0o Llttcicttt 2tnc00   Coe ...ass ec cen--Itol2nittodcotldstaeeo±
7~a5  oio,, (icat ons t oc eotioi(a   cacnc twtnte a    -.nc   Tred   tone-       incft7 .tLlote
'-t   .s  oicoot>t'leilIcctaio  eA   ool-a.p,ocpe   coaAaasl(cnoolnrt   oeooct(-tl, ca.iCtcl-
oetco (ci  (Ot- Ia I;- can       leti-seIte(el  sttoey is('- et            I on-t ta. ccii, ceo -mea   -Itctlcagctsnla
etc' a''  t ,(tteoo   nei -tenoan     dit    t L ain fetl J   ci<    poltoos
,      Isft1,   E- t  pticdoto   os   bacabotao0  ora  y                             OC,T
rJtelh ittt  - n      tha  -,Oc   crttice  t"ctIo  ntnc ne                                                Iftt-- ie    -'ta..  echisoti- ectl-l aair.l c         e
cettoeocttoineictiotssiecatoo-oe                                                                 1nn.lorrlaltcaooheplsacio                         dacoet9s             --oIto
If   ao io-c  ccalo  tot-L,   et.ot -iee-  .ci          .ooto   eiotcest   o   t2aie(nolt oct.   ootite-r pnee yadtlo                                                   to
aitd.: _nc .ccoLtncLl. r       catton_coeltloststi                                          -jcctrL- oenaelttotencctnn                         -estso-       cace
cth,,    'o.  e   cc  ta oPtato-acotntr-  of R'e   celtiif-cosieatI   n   isloso-sii et ens  tlitltlc
T'ca. Y- ~ ~      ~        ~ ~ eiotnc-ccaa (ns   cicaotceieceaonrtoc
I-ic eoeiOoc-''t )ienli 9-te ao-o,n   In- iee nee  ice0-.ci;o.--                                ro'o   (ocaic D. 'to,on.  ef  eah,eo.o0osyciOtoeop
Po   n   i   otitc    (o    - t-5nt   asaoe  creceCoilCrsriy occadtpnn a                                                 t seotelo     by etacti       L          Linat
tacI CCIC - 1(11  ned (oil dent.      l &,-htlo- itanrat...C diot    ....ca I d-I Lftee                                                  itoa as  tacte    rl
einjeoolco>l  ato(aeriso  -  t.i   -  tiooal  coee io--  toeecl Cd                te    canatice   t itof  001  etolaea-  sat-d-cir   a-d o,              y 
'oar cop~~itOoc  Ccc Ibbd-eic  Cend-to. tea 19107  197-8C.
eo---icc-Coo-A-.    -ac.l-I   oet .171-I.                                            iotsee5a  Cciti   ioso   onioniWati,cti2ta
Ccitt i,ic   iinonat te sonCl -  ccoiC1100  iceht    c    --ord eI mtad--so              sn Z  tit    ira  L-  sleet )tit5   onla ...              loa        act  oed
co.noCtt-c   Cite  '915,  cci  101oso-,-                                                               otiy  o.,itcn
toe;                                                                                                                                 L o    e,ad-ldoo.ltdocideclpcl   o   iaco,t  ppi. tOc  rottd   on -.
tona neliottoae tte  - botte  noitot  of -lochitannaion  t.( Lcc   la                   C ocaiion.n.o-toeeo   te4ohat .noenatoicttt
can oii-oci ra;coootioct,isriad It sht nip-ittt   ies t ct-ti'ott                             asaaI   oet   oef~   ntiycea  -cY cci ca     ..o  cala,ttr-
ae,   lcoe-Iiol,ea  idotttaaos      etiin--cc -ctot                                               T  o-ic   ceri- ,1,ina,          coaioi- .hrdoc
F". ~    ~      troa-oo    ccecc  ieot   atyptee    iic.                                        nect  oC  teceonn    cttoe;iotttlooaoT   oati
..eoccia-f teat on 00cc net eceiso.                                                        Ltti   iin    eao   'ttoocp                     ,'   ats          ac  pacedte
ptt,lltotooe aincioc  pcttn-nCy  to ccttctir5~~~~~PP",    a tsa  ns- It ItOaO
212   1 ochil-llC a-tte  --Iy'  l i  'l-etci lcci  oontin
itieeccic   i  lpe  01-1'II)-iet   lpo-7inoa       Ccnttntiotonnoit    tic   anlo-etdeeZ,oisi
~oo,'too   l  il'te  tnoettoi.Pceoetn    ollnoatotot  tt  oc           hioitc    crtt  tsyen,lcltdo-eolsiot o_ots-c   ocsc
ocloenot ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ p le  st  tA1iars    cle  i?tooecoi'o   ei   tts
1-o      F-       PL.,.                                          a coi'oslcctel.occeaietlet  c ciplle,'nn-iB-dTt
Oc atIt -~                   P-tnztsendo ittol td    teal  It-1   (te-  Vin t.112 70,1(11t-L
ercoonyr Irfc  also; Iebl-4C, 1(13, n'             l   no                      ea -iaac inns tiootnsoeao           ,- &oe-tIlyat          --eao t,n,   elc
P-n ..e.n  ttf1d cC tt-cIe   rttaetolcstnc-Lnt   -  eC~Iote coot.                                    i-o  lo-at  co  Leaatcn  totQ- - t               ....nesccoaa   -ctn-     an
dor bn.   ntl    L.Pe te itee  _o-tocls   oa_nacio Pnto _ie . teat-t-ce,                    tetcitoh; ClOd, 19CC oe  lift  nt.
ooe i.1t,oo,,, oa.entoe,a-   ate   nio cbioCceI-t.co'ioi'ccet      ooclroi  icot,   ioot
iszte olio  ic  c   eolnOt.ioolio    ISociti, Ion i-n,nd alc-e  itmy. oaar,a  de tcniit I t-ca  Cehe,r focta
ocn -td Ia-n;(o-e   91aetl   lo-(iqw, 191  -to  19s  dc-c
tocooet- etili o  ocotLn-L  (cceod peef)   --int t  oic-i  non  "ntt.                        ?ttoeeiemc  ls-si-eo,eta                                faa.o     cctoncnc
Mooitnt  Cc  al1' beyco    ctbot,   I; 111  pro,de fat daicOti                                     pacno            nn,  isis end Is..sls eneroLeei ti.  so1 -.... raca..c..
ntlococ-c  oT 'C  ootnfa to-t  pr-nait to  ty ceo_ I0 g-et  ,f iticot tial                         lenttil, dee  1960C -Cera,        -: Icoo .ar    asdtoI.'ittltot
,ol enlol1 thd  satncl  Its",eact 1tl-d 2nio Z                      ts-cleitgtocenoaec   ftn    cceti,tdle    ti   ce 
onteet lieiti-t aoe netiocile  ut tit -anr.t,iieyscso by 501 to teeTIt,,d     Ezns'aln leenedonie  Uis   -   If. if Ltopafonoon   aid-  lbte iib   ac-  coin
todd, Fsed bot;(Ilco,51 90 I'd :971 ott-                                                           ic t      -,ioo   leet lrc
insC  ot  iiets   top-aseitscacic  ece, 191-Si  0915 ted 1317 daci                 191091 llC'CcECoTIIC
- 001077 stileT "Pnnee
,19C711  otod 0103 ono, nod,c  ecoca    'cc    cosaoeri
tallcibact ciccncootoil~teoo~tico.co"F-,o-cc'ncie                               oscitcnc)o-ttoI- en    (II)  inn  -tet                            Lb-ciii i-L-n_
oO"ttott      ttr    otept itaca)-   e 19rOEitot-.-O-                                                tl,t,lyt    tonce,caattlt-oi                               itoa-etc    o
e3pticcl,r      es,iZoccolacireectc,ioo-                        -oott                     tfltPIriti.ne-                               ia
I -p-l   coot'tr-t,tct;cr...                          oilci,ccentibicnonl,itnPnnlctatciilsoot,onnocn
-,a   i    otLr   ccO  tso   e-ail5    te-ott                        nlo    t             R,c  cilco Ott    P-io I (ocanIceelats -ner  ateets  e   o  -a
'ectootlocoo~to-olotrlc'ot~nltnot.enntaAeea~'t- lc9ei.eoc-~i                      tdc,nt-n~-eeeioto-o,-tot(ob-es                    cocal
(tell --  ocier cccoo.~~~~~~~~~~~ra- - 
noc-o  h-a PLep    oo- iel  tto oscoco tetI i it intitnti,   ch
4"a t,cetc   ca.P n dLce- sel  cie       : sltt   resei   f  niore-
actotrtcr0   ienhccnaseo   h  ott ci f-oci.n.tee tad   tt-
1tcol~Uoo a- tccetef,~5tnao- lopealattet iie.otid 1' tat-t it icotiollt                   -                                           non (to
ode   n-ffctiod gcda    ocst   ca cteact  oc-occ  oo_.c.'..joit.
noceon-tcottittiios                         b               "qa    5,



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
COSTA RICA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 2.268 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita: $1,430           (1981)
Aount                        Average Annual Increase (X)                     Share of GDP at Market Prices (7)
(million US dollars                 (at constant 1966 prices)                              (at current prices)
at current prices)
1981                   1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-81             1960    1970    1975    1980    1981
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product                  3,619                       6.5        6.4        5.4       -4.6          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture                             811                       5.7        3.4        1.8        1.2           26.0    22.5    20.3    18.7    22.4
Industry                                945                      9.4         9.6        6.2      -4.3            19.7    24.2    27.4    25.2    26.1
Services                              1,864                      5.7         6.1        6.2      -5.2            54.3    53.3    52.3    56.1    5t.5
Consumption                             2,892                       6.3        4.3        6.6      -12.2           87.3    86.2    86.7 '  83.8    79-9
Gross Investment                           827                      7.1        6.5       10.5      -39.3           17.5    20.5    21.6    26.6    22.8
Exports of goods and NFS                 1,237                     10.3        8.2        5.6       15.8           21.4    28.2    30.4    26.5    34.2
Imports of goods and SFS                1,337                      10.0        3.7       11.0     -25.7            26.2    35.0    38.7    36.8    36.9
Gross national savings                     361                      4.1        4.1        0.0       19.0           12.9    13.0    10.6    11.0    10.0
Amount
(million US dollars                Average Annual Increase (                     Composition of Merchanside Trade (Z)
at current prices)                 AverageAnnup(at current Prices)
1981                   1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-81             1960    1970    1975    1980    1981
MERCHANSISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                      1,036                     10.7        5.4        4.3        1.8          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                                 694                       5.2        4.9        1.6        8.0           94.0    76.9    71.2    63.2    67.0
Manufactures                            342                      23.1        7.9       12.2       -8.9            6.0    23.1    28.8    36.8    33.'0
Merchandise imports                     1,211                      10.2        1.7        8.9      -16.5          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Consumer goods                          256                     16.8       -6.9       13.6      -31.6            36.1    32.7    20.7    24.3    21.1
Petroleum                               205                       7.0        0.9      -2.3      -20.1             5.4      3.9    10.6    13.5    16.9
Machinery and Equipment                  179                     10.0        4.3       12.7      -26.6           23.3    24.8    25.5    30.3    14.8
Other                                   571                       7.8        6.4        6.3       -5.6           35.2    38.6    43.3    32.0    47.2
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE                                                              1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
GDP deflator                                                                        85.5   100.0   107.9   117.8   139.9   202.5
Exchange rate                                                                         8.6     8.6      8.6      8.6      9.4    15.8
Export price index                                                                  89.2   100.0    93.3    96.7   111.0   107.5
Import price index                                                                  95.0   100.0   105.9   121.4   137.8   I15.6
Terms of trade index       .                                                        84.4   100.0    88.1    79.6    80.6    70.9
As X GDP
(at current prices)
PIUBLIC FINANCE a/                                     1970         1975         1980         1981
Current revenue                                     25.3          30.4         25.0          24.0
Current expenditure                                 21.9          28.3         27.5          24.8
Surplus or deficit                                    3.4          2.1         -2.5         -0.B
Capital expenditure                                   4.9          7.8         12.0          12.2
OTHER INDICATORS                                       1960-70         1970-75          1975-80
GNP growth rate (X)                                     6.0             6.1              5.2
GNP per capita growth (X)                               2.4             3.1              2.3
ICOR                                                    3.0             3.7              5.1
Import elasticity                                       1.5             0.6              2.1
a/Consolidated non-financial public sector.
April 1983



- 36 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
COSTA RICA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions of US$ at current prices)
Popula-ion: 2.268 million (mid-'981)
G':' per Capita~ S1,430           (19E1)
Actual                              Estimate
1977      1978      1979      1980       1981-             1982
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & NF services                       -168      -323      -423      -462      - 100               125
Exports of goods & 'IF services                        969        994     1,1l.     1,218     1,237             1,064
Imports of goods & NB services                       1,137     1,316      1,535     1,680     1,337               939
Net Factor Income                                         -74      -110      -146      -216       -336              -488
Net transfers                                              16        17         12        14        27                34
Current account balance                                 -226       -363      -558      -664       -409              -329
Direct private investment                                  63        47        42         48        66                75
110T loans (net)                                          196       212       367        354       154               -26
Other capital                                              75       126        67      -219       -217             -120
Change in reserves (-   inc.) a/                        -108        -22        82       481        406              400
International Reserves  a/                               187        209       127      -354      -760           -1,160
Reserves as months of imports                               2         2         1        -2         -7              -15
Actual
1970      1977       1978             1979       1980      1981
CROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Cfficial grants                                                                  2.5       0.3       0.7              -4.3       -5.3      -O.i
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                                               35.3    253.3    392.9                546.7    474.3    607.3
Corcessional                                                                    15.6      15.1      36.0              56.3       58.8      38.9
Bilateral                                                                     7.5        2.8      16.0              23.1      14.4       13.3
IDA
Other multilateral                                                            8.1       12.3      20.0              33.2      44.4       25.6
Non-concessionual                                                               19.7    238.2    356.9               490.4    415.5    568.4
Official export credits                                                       0.1      27.0       46.4              34.2      86.3       93.3
IBRD                                                                          4.9      23.7       2'.5              20.5      29.4      22.3
Other multilateral                                                            4.4      40.1       42.0              27.3      25.8       25.3
Private                                                                      10.3     147.4    247.0               408.4     274.0    427.5
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed                                                167.1     833.7  1,050.3             1,417.5  1,796.9  2,357.5
Official                                                                    128.9    489.1      616.6              728.3    894.1  1,046.4
IBRD                                                                       36.1     124.0     140.8              155.5     178.3     192.0
IDA                                                                         4,5       5.1       5.1                5.0       5.0       4.9
Other                                                                      88.3    360.n    470.7                567.8     710.3    649.5
Private                                                                      38.2     344.6     433.7              689.2     902.8  1.311.1
Undisbursed Debt                                                              192.9    600.1       703.3             644.6    851.3    890.7
DEBT SERVICE
Puhlic debt service payments                                                   30.6      98.5    252-1               269.2    219.9    203.0
Interest                                                                      8.1      40.9      70.9               89.6     136.7    116.0
Payments as % exports                                                          10.9       10.2      25.4              24.3       18.0      16.4
Payments as 1 GDP                                                               3.1        3.2       7.2               6.7        4.8       1.6
Average interest rate on new loans (%)                                          5.6        7.3    ---                 2 ]1.2     10.9      11.2
Multilateral                                                                  n.a.      5.3        5.8               8.1       7.1        8.4
Official                                                                      5.7       5.8        6.2               6.8       7.3        6.9
Private                                                                       6.7       8.7       10.3              12.5      14.9       12.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)                                           n.a.      12.4      15.3              10.7       12.6      10.6
Multilateral                                                                 23.1      27.5       24.2              15.1      20.9       17.2
Official                                                                     28.2      18.7       24.7              13.7      18.2       13.2
Private                                                                       7.0       6.8        8.7               9.8       6.5        7.3
As % of Debt Outstanding
at Enad of Most Recent
'fear (1981)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                      62%
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                     97%
Interest structure of debt outstanding (%)
Interest due within first year                                                                     10.1%
a/ Decreases in reserves include increases in debt service arrears totalling US$283 million in 1980, US$359 million in 1981,
and US$535 million in 1982.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
OFFICIAL LENDING TO COSTA RICA BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1970-1982
(In Millions of Constant FY81 US Dollars) 1/
IBRD/IDA      IDB      CABEI 2/      AID      TOTAL
Transport                    152.3       168.7     195.7           -      516.7
Power                        125.3      340.8       95.3          -       561.4
Telecommunications           100.6          -        8.1           -      108.7
Education                     13.3        74.8      24.0           -      112.1
Health                          -         57.9        -          11.9      69.8
Housing                         -           -      128.8           -      128.8
Agriculture                   46.5       114.7      27.4        106.6     295.2
Manufacturing                 18.7       22.4        6.8          -        47.9
Urban Development             22.7        9.8        7.8        24.9       65.2
Other                         30.8       25.5       25.9        109.2     191.4
510.2      814.6     519.8        252.6   2,097.2
1/  IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
2/ Excludes operations with the private sector.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
'E STATUS CF BANK GROJP OPERATI(NS IN COSIA RICA
A. SrAEAENT OF RANK 1ANS AND IDA CREDITS (Net of cancellations)
As of March 31, 1983.
Loan or
Credit  Year        Borrower             Parpose           Banik    IAl   Undishn-sed
No.                                                               (US$ millions)
Eighteen loans and one credit fully disbursed.           188.3    5.5
1187    1976  Goverrnent               Highways            39.0      -         13.1
1410    1977  Government               Agriculture Credit  18.0      -          1.3
1491    1977  Coverrment               Urban Transport     16.5      -          4.3
1532    1978  ICE                      Teleconminications   10.6     -          1.5
1599    1978  Banco Central            Industrial Credit   15.0      -         12.0
1713    1979  ICE                      Poer                34.0      -         11.9
1845    1980  Gonvermnt                Hi&vrays            30.0      -         29.0
1935    1981  AyA                      Wdater Supply       26.0      -         21.4
2019    1981  Governnent               Petroleum Technical  3.0      -          3.0
Assistanoe            _
Total                                             380.9    5.5
of wich has been repaid                          78.3    0.7
Total no  xitstanding                             302.6    4.8
AnmDit sold                   11.1
of which has been repaid    11.1                   -       -
Total now beld by Banrk and IDA                   302.6    4.8
Total undisbursed                                  97.5     -         97.5
1/ Excluding exchange adjustmnnts.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As March 31, 1983
Year              Obligor             Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
(US$ millions)
1963-76    Productos de Concreto,       Cement & construc-       0.28    0.08    0.36
S.A.                         tion material
1978       Scott Paper Company de       Pulp & paper             2.50     -       2.50
Costa Rica, S.A.             products
1979       Maricultura, S.A.            Food & food              1.40    0.70    2.10
processing
1982       Matas de Costa Rica, S.A.   Ornamental plants         1.52     -       1.52
Total gross commitments                               5.70    0.78    6e48
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                           0.90    0.08    0.98
Total now held by IFC                                 4.80    0.70    5.50
Total undisbursed                                     0.38     -      0,38



- 4o -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan/Credit No.
Ln 1187         Fourth Highway Project:  US$39.0 Million of January 14, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The construction of the San Jose-Siquirres road is about 65
percent completed, with the work about three years behind
schedule. All work on this road was suspended in August 1981
following cancellation of the main contract for poor
performance. After taking office in May 1982, the new
Government accelerated efforts to resume construction. A
final settlement with the suspended contractor was reached in
August. New contracts covering the bulk of the remaining work
have now been awarded, and construction resumed in April.
Cons2truction of the Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo branch road is
expected to be postponed indefinitely in view of the existing
serious budgetary constraints. The Bank is currently
reviewing a revised work program and financing plan in
connection with the Government's request for an extension of
the Closing Date to permit disbursement of remaining loan
proceeds and accelerate completion of the main road section.
Ln 1410         Agricultural Credit and Development Project:  US$18.0 Million
of June 2, 1977; Effectiveness Date: January 23, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The main part of the project, agricultural loans, is
proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement of equipment for the
seeds component is now underway after considerable delay and
should be completed in 1983. Progress in completing the
feeder road component is satisfactory, with the remaining
works scheduled to be completed during 1983. Completion of
preDaration of a rural development project for the Atlantic
Zone has been delayed due to difficulties in determining
overall project parameters and scope. The matter is currently
being reviewed with the Government.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX IT
Page 4 of 5
Ln 1491         San Jose Urban Transport Project:  US$16.5 Million of
November 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 2, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After initial delays, substantial progress has been made in
completing the major construction components of this project,
which are now about 70 percent complete on average. However,
Dprogress has slowed considerably in the past two years
reflecting increasing budgetary constraints. Measures to
accelerate disbursements, including adjustments in project
scope and timing have been agreed with the Government and the
project is expected to be substantially completed by the end
of 1983.
Lya 1532        Fifth Telecommunications Project:  US$10.6 Million of
March 23, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is progressing satisfactorily, with all loan funds
committed, Project completion is scheduled for June 1983,
about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. The Closing Date has been
extended to December 31, 1983.
Ln 1599         Industrial Credit Project:  US$15.0 Million of July 12, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: September 15, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Following effectiveness of the loan in September 1980 after
two years delay, project implementation was further slowed by
delays in reaching agreement on a satisfactory on-lending
rate.  In addition, lower investment demand resulting from
uncertainties in the economic situation has further slowed
commitments. As a result only about US$5.0 million has been
committed to date for investment purposes, with another US$5.0
million expected to be committed by mid-1983. The Bank has
approved an amendment of the loan to permit up to US$5.0
million to be used to meet working capital needs of exporters
for purchase of imported raw materials. This amount is fully
committed and disbursements are getting underway.
Ln 1713         Sixth Power Project:  US$34.0 Million of June 25, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, although
procurement and construction activities have suffered delays
due to the overall slowdown of ICE's program reflecting the
worsening economic situation. The Bank has agreed to expand
the scope of the project to include (a) amending the voltage
of the San Isidro-Rio Claro transmission line from 138 kv to
230 kv; (b) adding a stepdown transformer at the Alajuelita



. 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
substation; (c) modifying the Garita substation; (d) expanding
the Arenal substation (financed under the Fifth Power
Project); and (e) improving the Alajuela distribution
network. The Bank has also agreed to finance the foreign
costs of the construction of the San Isidro-Rio Claro
transmission line which is to be contracted out, with the
contract to be let in accordance with the Bank's normal
bidding procedures. The inclusion of these additional
components has also extended the implementation period and the
Bank has agreed to a one year extension of the Closing Date to
June 30, 1984,
Ln 1845         Fifth Highway Project:  US$30 Million of May 27, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: October 16, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1984,
Due I:n large part to delays in becomin,g effective, this
project is only now getting underway, about two years behind
schedule.  The road rehabilitation planining section has been
established, and the initial rehabilitation work program has
been approved by the Bank.  Since taking office 'n May 1982,
the new Government has given higher priority to maintenance
and rehabilitation efforts. As a resu:Lt, consultants to
assist in maintenance and training have now been employed, and
construction of the first tranche of roads to be rehabilitated
is expected to start in late April 1983,
Ln 1935         San Jose Water Supply Project:  US$26 Million of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: August 11, 1982;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984,
The Loan was made effective in August 1982 following Assembly
approval of tariff adjustments required to ensure compliance
with the rate-of-return provision of the Loan Agreement.  Due
to delays in effectiveness, the project is about one year
behind schedule,  The main contract for the pipeline and the
contract for the water treatment plant should be awarded in
April and October 1983, respectively.  Implementation is
therefore expected to accelerate in the coming months.
Ln 2019         Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project:  US$3.0 Million
of August 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This loan was signed on August 7, 1981, but only recently made
effective, due mainly to delays in obtaining Assembly
approval. Progress is now satis:Eactory, with aeromagnetic and
seismic studies expected to get underway by mid-1983.  Hiring
of a senior exploration advisor is also being expedited.
Requirements for technical assistance under the energy
planling component will be addressed in an Energy Assessment
paper currently under preparation.



43 -
ANNEX III
COSTA RICA
EXPORT DE 'ETO ENT LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Date of first presentation to Bank:        July 1981
(b) Appraisal mission:                         October 1982
(c) Completion of negotiations:                March 1983
(d) Planned date of effectiveness:             August 1983
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Action:
Disbursement of US$4.0 milllon into FOPEX Special Account as of
loan effectiveness.
Section III. Special Conditions:
Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a) as conditions of effectiveness of the Loan the Borrower will:
i) approve an initial permanent contribution to FOPEX's resources
equivalent to US$8.0 million, with US$1.0 million equivalent
being paid into FOPEX by the time of loan effectiveness (para.
72); and
ii) reach agreement with a minimum of six banks to participate
as intermediaries in the FOPEX operation (para. 83)
(b) Enter into a contractual arrangement with the guarantor for the
transfer of the proceeds of the Loan allocated for Technical
Assistance (para. 91).
(c) Establish in FOPEX a Special Account to which
the Bank would make an initial deposit of US$4.0 militon at the
Borrower's request as soon as the loan is declared effective
(para. 88)e
(d) have the FOPEX accounts audited each fiscal year in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles by independent auiditors
acceptable to the Bank (para. 90).
(e) have the Special Account in FOPEX audited each fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and submit certified
statements of this account on a quarterly basis to the Bank (para.
90).






0>                                    86                                                            
iTt          0D                            O                           r                                   [ 
22>                                                                              0 sz ;1 0                     /D   0  
o k} D Dt( c ~~....                     2'     ,     ,                  r_
00~~~~~~~~~~X                  \ s> 22                                     .4 /- a96P- 
_, ;/ t~~~ - - - // C) 0                                      n          .    -r
2seJ   >   /gt  -  M 24 o! >s42~~~~.. 7
_ r>~  -=\s5      Ag       >.           .)                                                |   )      -D/      D     t   
_ >  7  ;pg>/4 \   /                 \  >                z   X .              2                   A
0  <-                                                                                                     A  !              



