      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      SN EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund(P116783)



                                                                                                              Report Number : ICRR0020004


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                           Project Name
 P116783                                              SN EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund

 Country                                              Practice Area(Lead)
 Senegal                                              Education



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                    Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-94753                                            31-Dec-2011                                                             81,500,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                  Closing Date (Actual)
  09-Jul-2009                                         30-Sep-2014

                                                            IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                    0.00                                                81,500,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                                     0.00                                                79,674,937.97

  Actual                                                                 0.00                                                79,674,937.97




 Sector(s)
 Primary education(90%):Public administration- Education(10%)

 Theme(s)
 Education for all(90%):Gender(10%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator             Group
 Judith Hahn Gaubatz                Judyth L. Twigg                    Joy Behrens                        IEGPS2




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
   According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 3) and the Grant Agreement (page 5), the objective of the project was as follows:



      • To contribute to the Government's goal of attaining universal primary education by 2015, through construction, extension and
      equipment of classrooms and ancillary buildings.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          SN EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund(P116783)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     1. Construction and equipment of classrooms (Appraisal: US$ 65.6 million; Actual: US$ 67.4 million): This component aimed to increase the
     number of available spaces in primary schools. Activities included: construction and equipping of 2,010 classrooms in existing schools that
     were over-capacity; construction of 1,900 classrooms to replace temporary school structures (i.e. rented or borrowed space, temporary or
     inadequate materials); and construction of 450 classrooms in new schools, of which 300 would be in French-Arabic schools.
     2. Construction of auxiliary facilities in existing schools (Appraisal: US$ 7.5 million; Actual: US$ 6.4 million): This component aimed to
     upgrade the condition of existing schools by providing water points, sanitary facilities, and administrative blocks (headmaster's offices and
     storerooms).
     3. Coordination and monitoring/evaluation (Appraisal: US$ 8.4 million; Actual: US$ 6.2 million): This component aimed to support the
     coordination of construction activities as well as monitoring and evaluation of project implementation. Activities included: coordination
     meetings with Ministry officials, local government authorities, and school communities; supervision visits; and capacity building for the school
     construction directorate in the Ministry of Education.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project cost

        • The actual project cost was US$ 80.0 million, compared to the appraised cost of US$ 81.5 million.
        • Significant cost savings were realized from competitive procurement processes; the additional funds were used to construct 48 lower
        secondary schools, 181 additional primary classrooms, two girls' secondary schools, and ten administrative blocks.


     Financing

        • The project was financed entirely by a Catalytic Fund Grant, which disbursed US$80.0 million. The remaining undisbursed amount of
        US$ 1.5 million was returned to the Grant Fund.


     Borrower contribution

        • There was no planned Borrower contribution.


     Dates

        • November 2010: Several implementing agencies were added to the project implementation plan to accelerate construction activities.
        The project closing date was extended from June 2011 to December 2012 to allow for completion of construction activities, which had
        experienced initial implementation delays.
        • December 2012: The project closing date was extended from December 2012 to September 2013 to allow for completion of additional
        construction activities, which had been added due to cost savings generated from competitive procurement processes.
        • September 2013: The project closing date was extended from September 2013 to September 2014 to allow for completion of activities.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               SN EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund(P116783)



   a. Relevance of Objectives

       The objective to attain universal primary education was and is highly relevant to the country situation, in which the growing demand for
       primary education was outpacing the availability of adequate school spaces, particularly for upper primary grades. Temporary classrooms
       were being used as an interim measure, accounting for almost one-fifth of all classrooms at the time of project appraisal. Drop-out and
       repetition rates were also high (10.9% and 7.9%, respectively), due in part to inadequate facilities (lack of water and sanitation facilities),
       incomplete schools (not offering a complete cycle of grades), and failure to address causes of repetition. The objective was highly relevant
       to the Bank's prior Country Assistance Strategy (FY 2007-2010, which also covered FY 2011-2012 due to delays in preparing the next
       strategy), which identified improved quality of and access to basic education (primary and lower secondary) as a key objective. The
       objective to attain universal primary education remains broadly consistent with the current Country Partnership Strategy (FY 2013-2017),
       which identifies enhanced equity and quality of education as a key outcome. This objective also responds directly to the country's education
       sector plans (2000-2012 and 2013-2025) which prioritize increasing access to primary education.



       Original Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       Achieving universal primary education required addressing barriers to enrollment, such as insufficient number of schools and classrooms,
       inadequate state of facilities to meet basic needs, lack of options that responded to community preferences (i.e. religious, cultural, and
       linguistic demands), and limited attention to girls' schooling needs. The project design responded to these barriers through support to
       construction and rehabilitation of primary schools and classrooms, and provision of water points and sanitation facilities. These project outputs,
       along with the quality- and management-focused interventions in the parallel Quality Education For All 2 project, were likely to achieve the
       intended outcomes of increased enrollment and completion. Selection of sites for new school construction was determined by several criteria,
       including communities' enrollment rates, distance from existing schools, number of school-aged children, availability of land, and lack of
       alternative funding. However, the construction of water points was more complicated than expected; also, the original planned project period of
       2.5 years was "too short in light of the significant amount of infrastructure planned to be undertaken during the project life" (ICR, page 17).



       Original Rating
       Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Original Objective
     To attain universal primary education by 2015

    Original Narrative
    Outputs
    Construction of classrooms

        • Construction/upgrading of 4,977 classrooms (target: 3,910). According to the PAD (page 17), the total need was 5,239 classrooms.
        Of these, 2,591 classrooms were built in existing schools (target: 2,010), and 1,936 classrooms replaced temporary structures (target:
        1,900).
        • Construction of 198 new schools (target: 150), including 150 primary and 48 lower secondary schools. Of these, 100 were French-
        Arabic schools in regions where there was significant demand.


    The ICR (page 38) reports that the quality of the civil works was mostly satisfactory.
    Construction of ancillary facilities
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        SN EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund(P116783)




   • Provision of water points in 538 elementary schools (target: 814). According to the ICR (page viii), the shortfall was due to the
   unexpectedly high cost and difficulty of reaching the water table.
   • Provision of latrine blocks in 839 schools (target: 814). The ICR (page 38) reports on findings from the ICR mission, which observed
   in "a significant amount of the schools visited, that there were problems in terms of the proper functioning of the sanitary blocks. The
   Government, along with the [school management committees], plans to provide the necessary support to address any remaining
   issues."
   • Provision of administrative blocks in 522 schools (target: 500).


Other

   • Policy dialogue with government based on 2010 Bank-supported survey results (2010) on trends in repetition, drop-out and
   completion rates. This policy dialogue significantly contributed to the government's decision to eliminate the grade 6 competitive exam.
   • Conducting of 10 meetings by the Construction Committee and Steering Committee (target: 8).
   • Provision of software for deployment of teachers (co-financed by the Canadian International Development Agency), which was used
   to improve resource allocation at the school level.
   • Strengthening of geographic information system for national school mapping.



Outcomes
Enrollment

   • The gross enrollment rate increased from 90.1% in 2008 to 93.0% in 2014. This fell short of the target of 95.9%. According to the
   ICR (page 18), the shortfall was due to the decrease in number of repeater students (therefore indicating increased efficiency of the
   education system). The actual number of students enrolled in primary school increased from 1.62 million in 2008 to 1.89 million in 2014.
   • The gross intake rate into Grade 1 decreased from 113.6% in 2008 to 108.9% in 2014. This surpassed the target of 110.3%. The
   goal was to decrease this rate, as a reflection of a reduction in the number of over-aged children entering Grade 1. The actual number
   of students enrolling in the first year of primary school increased from 337,000 in 2008 to 406,000 in 2014.



Other
Outcomes listed below are also reported in the ICR, although given the timeline of completion of school infrastructure, attribution to this
project's interventions is unclear.

   • The repetition rate decreased from 7.9% in 2008 to 3.0% in 2014. This surpassed the target of 6.8%.
   • The primary completion rate increased from 58.45% in 2008 to 73.4% in 2014. This achieved the target of 70.4%.
   • The dropout rate decreased from 10.9% in 2008 to 7.7% in 2014. This fell short of the target of 6.3%.
   • The transition rate from primary to lower secondary education increased from 62 percent in 2008-2010 to 90 percent in 2011. (As this
   was not an original project indicator, no target was identified).



Achievement of the objective is rated Substantial due to evidence of increased enrollment. Main activities of construction and rehabilitation
were largely completed and surpassed targets (with the exception of water points). However, while enrollment rates improved, the
key indicator of gross primary enrollment rate fell short of the target.


Original Rating
Substantial



5. Efficiency
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         SN EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund(P116783)



The PAD (Annex 8) included a discussion of the economic rationale for investing in primary education and the disparities in enrollment by
gender, rural vs. urban areas, and region. However, there was no specific economic analysis of the project.
The ICR (Annex 3) provides a unit cost analysis for the project. For the construction of new classrooms, the unit cost was initially estimated at
FCFA 5.5 million per classroom, a cost estimate that was widely used by government and donors (ICR, page 41). However, as a result
of competitive procurement processes during the project, the unit cost decreased to FCFA 3.6 million - 3.9 million. As a result of these cost
savings, additional civil works were implemented, including construction of 48 lower secondary schools, 181 primary classrooms, and 10
administrative blocks, and rehabilitation of two girls' secondary schools, all of which supported the achievement of outcomes. The use of a
classroom prototype, which was standardized during the project period, also likely contributed to savings in construction costs.
However, for the construction of water points, the actual unit cost was significantly higher than estimated. During the project period, it became
clear that a number of water points could not be constructed due to the extensive excavation required. Additionally, the distance between some
of the planned water points and the main national and rural water lines was much greater than expected. Therefore, the actual unit cost per
water point was US$ 2,479, compared to the appraised estimate of US$ 1,398. The project funds supported the installation of 538 water points,
falling far short of the planned 814.
Also, there were significant delays in completing the first phase of construction activities, as the main implementing agency (AGETIP) lacked
sufficient capacity to supervise such large-scale construction. These delays contributed to extension of the project period by 2.5 years (double
the originally planned project period), although the extension was also due in part to the additional civil works enabled by cost savings.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?            Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                           0
 Appraisal                                                               0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

                                                                                                           0
 ICR Estimate                                                            0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of the project objective is High, and relevance of the project design is Substantial. Achievement of the objective to achieve
universal primary education is Substantial due to evidence of increased enrollment, although the key indicator of gross primary enrollment rate
fell short of the target. Efficiency is rated Modest due to higher than expected cost of constructing water points (and therefore significant
shortfall in number of outputs completed) and initial implementation delays that contributed to a project period that was double compared to
planned. Taken together, these ratings suggest moderate shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an
Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.


a.    Outcome Rating
      Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Use of project-constructed classrooms to provide primary education is likely to be sustained, as the government has provided teachers for
those classrooms and is starting to allocate budget to implement a maintenance policy for all schools. However, the effectiveness of local
School Management Committees in managing and maintaining school facilities is yet to be established. The M&E system is still functional and
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         SN EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund(P116783)



providing useful information for managing the sector. A follow-up Bank operation, the Quality Improvement and Equity of Basic Education
Project, is continuing to provide financial and policy support to the basic education sector.

a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project was designed with a high level of participation from the government and other donor partners. It drew upon existing institutional
     arrangements (i.e. for disbursement and monitoring), which had already been well established under the government's education sector plan
     and the Bank's Quality Education for All 1 & 2 projects. The overall risk assessment was appropriate, although it did not identify the risk of
     over-stretched capacity of AGETIP (the lead civil works agency), which materialized as a significant factor in implementation delays. A
     feasibility study on the construction of water points was not undertaken during project preparation, which negatively impacted completion of this
     activity. The M&E framework was overall satisfactory, although the inclusion of longer-term quality indicators (such as repetition and
     completion rates) was less relevant given the timeline of completed construction activities. However, as noted in the ICR (page 3), it was
     standard practice at the time of appraisal to use key performance indicators taken directly from the government's (long-term) education sector
     framework.


     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     According to the ICR (pp. 26-27), the Bank team worked effectively with the government to ensure the achievement of outcomes. The Bank
     team responded to the government's request to accelerate construction by adding several implementing agencies to construct schools, as well
     as by narrowing the geographic scope of AGETIP's activities to address its over-stretched capacity. According to the ICR (page 10), these
     actions "paid high dividends as construction activities gained significant momentum... and benefited from improved and increased monitoring
     and supervision." Additionally, the procurement processes for awarding construction contracts resulted in bids that were lower than
     expected as well as lower overhead costs; these led to significant cost savings and enabled increased construction activities in further support
     of the project objective. Analytic work conducted with Bank support (2010 survey) enabled a better understanding of the factors driving high
     repetition and dropout rates (grade 6 competitive exam and limited number of available spaces at the lower secondary level), which led to a key
     policy decision by the government to eliminate the grade 6 exam (ICR, p. 11). Implementation Supervision Report (ISR) ratings were
     consistent with project progress. There were no major problems reported in financial management or safeguards compliance.


     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
     The project was strongly aligned with the government's sector strategy, and therefore the government demonstrated strong commitment to
     the project throughout the project period. This included high prioritization of primary education, effective coordination with donor partners,
     and active participation in project supervision meetings. The government also strongly supported an accelerated pace of construction and
     agreed to add several implementing entities to construct additional schools.


     Government Performance Rating
     Satisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       SN EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund(P116783)



b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The Directorate for Education Planning and Reform (within the Ministry of Education) was the primary responsible agency. According to the
   project team, it was one of the few government agencies in the region with sufficient capacity to directly implement an education sector
   project. Construction activities were implemented as planned, even surpassed, albeit not within the original timeframe of the project.
    AGETIP (the main public works and employment agency) implemented the first phase construction activities, given its prior experience in
   managing large civil works programs. However, the ICR (pages 9-10) notes some shortcomings in AGETIP's monitoring and supervision
   performance, due to insufficient manpower to manage the geographic scope of activities and the range of structures (i.e. classrooms,
   sanitary blocks, etc.) and a lack of qualified staff to ensure adherence to technical specifications. These shortcomings were largely resolved
   by adding several additional construction management agencies after the first project restructuring, thereby decreasing the scope of
   AGETIP's work commensurate with its available manpower. Notably, the procurement processes for awarding construction contracts
   resulted in bids that were lower than expected as well as lower overhead costs; these led to significant cost savings and enabled increased
   construction activities to further ensure achievement of outcomes. There were no major problems reported in financial management or
   safeguards compliance.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The M&E framework was overall satisfactory, drawing upon the broader sectoral M&E framework and existing mechanisms. As noted
   above, the key project indicators included repetition, drop-out, and completion rates, which were not strongly attributable to the project
   activities given the timeline of construction. However, the "intermediate" outcomes identified (classrooms, schools, and water points
   constructed; and gross enrollment/intake rates) were more appropriate for the timeframe of the project and thus attributable to project
   interventions. Project monitoring was to be carried out by the Directorate of Planning and Education Reform, which was also responsible
   for monitoring progress on the overall sector program. The project design also included a two-phase approach to construction activities;
   while this was intended to provide an opportunity to take stock of the first phase and apply lessons to the second phase.



b. M&E Implementation
   Overall, project monitoring and reporting were carried out regularly and enabled close supervision of implementation progress. The ICR (page
   13) reports that quality of data "was generally adequate, and progress reports were satisfactory overall." The planned assessment of the first
   construction phase did not take place due to "insufficient time originally allotted to undertake this assessment prior to the beginning of second
   phase of the construction program" (ICR, page 8). Instead, a technical, safeguard and procurement analysis was carried out prior to the launch
   of the second phase, and regular monitoring also provided information on areas for improvement. Implementation of the M&E design was
   overall satisfactory and made a notable contribution to the monitoring and decision-making capacity of the government.



c. M&E Utilization
  The ICR (page 14) reports that monitoring information was used consistently by the Bank and the implementing agencies to inform project
  decisions (for example, changes in needs of the communities and selection of additional construction activities). Based on the quality analysis
  conducted at the end of phase one of construction, a training workshop was organized for all contractors to help address common challenges.


   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         SN EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund(P116783)



   The project was assessed as a Category "B" project due to construction of civil works. An Environmental and Social Management
   Framework was prepared under the parallel Quality Education for All 2 project. The ICR (page 29) reports that the construction agencies
   worked closely with the responsible Directorate to adhere to safeguards requirements.
   The safeguard policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) was also triggered, and therefore a Resettlement Policy Framework, again
   under the parallel Bank project, was developed. One minor resettlement issue which arose in the city of Thies was subsequently resolved.


b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Procurement: Procurement performance was overall satisfactory and in compliance with guidelines (ICR, page 15). During project preparation,
   procurement capacity was assessed as adequate and training was provided during the project. As reported above, highly competitive
   procurement processes resulted in significant cost savings, which were used to finance additional construction activities.
   Financial management: Financial management was rated overall Moderately Satisfactory with only minor shortcomings reported. The ICR
   (page 14) reports that some small ineligible expenditures by AGETIP were identified but subsequently reimbursed in full. Also, there were
   some instances of fund shortages in AGETIP's account, leading to some cash flow issues, as well as some incomplete or inconsistent
   documentation. External audits were on time and unqualified.



c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.


d. Other
   ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                   Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                                   Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                            Modest                                 ---
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                ---
Quality of ICR                                                              High                                   ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

Lessons drawn from ICR (pages 29-30) and adapted by IEG:

   • A multi-phase approach to construction helps to take stock and modify activities as needed. In the case of this project, although a formal
   evaluation of phase one construction activities was not conducted as planned, a technical analysis was still carried out and led to introduction
   of significant changes, most notably the addition of two construction management agencies, to increase the pace of construction.
   • The use of a standardized architectural design for classrooms can contribute to efficiency and ensure adherence to quality standards. In the
   case of this project, although there were some initial challenges in technical capacity to build according to specifications, the quality of civil
   works was considered overall satisfactory.
   • Alignment with the government's sectoral program helps to increase efforts at coordination. In the case of this project, the government lent
   strong support to coordination among donors, as several different projects were being implemented in support of the common goal to achieve
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         SN EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund(P116783)



     universal primary education.
     • Analytic work carried out during implementation can have meaningful impact on the direction and pace of reform. In this case, the 2010
     survey undertaken with Bank support facilitated deeper understanding of the factors driving high repetition and dropout rates at the grade 1
     and grade 5 level, leading to important policy changes.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR has a strong focus on results. The quality of the evidence and analysis was careful and thorough, including balancing this specific project's
contributions and outcomes against other (complementary) projects being implemented in the sector. Presentation of information adhered very
clearly to ICR guidelines. Lessons were specific and informative for other catalytic fund projects.


a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      High
