Document of
The World Bank    Ff1 E CPPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repon No. 2839a-BR
BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SETWrERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 28, 1980
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriza&ion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Cruzeiro
US$1.00         =    Cr$31..01  (November 1979)
MEASURES
1 mm     =    millimeter               =     0.04 inches
1 cm     =    centimeter               =     0.39 inches
1 m      =    meter                    =     3.28 feet
1 km     =    kilometer                =     0.62 miles
1 13     =    liter                    =     0.26 US gallons
1 m3     =    cubic meter              =     264 US gallons
1 m /sec =    cubic meter per second  =      22.82 MGD = million
US gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABES     =    Brazilian Association of Sanitary Engineers
BNH      =    National Housing Bank
CAGECE   =    Ceara State Water Company
CASAN    =    Santa Catarina State Water Company
CETESB   =    Sanitation Technology and Pollution Control Consultants
CIP      =    Interministerial Price Committee
COMPESA  =    Pernambuco State Water Company
COPAN    =    Minas Gerais Environmental Policy Commission
COPASA   =    Minas Gerais State Water Company
CORSAN   =    Rio Grande do Sul State Water Company
COSAN    =    Operations Division for the Sanitation Finance System (BNH)
CTN      =    Financial Contract Number
EMBASA   =    Bahia State Water Company
EVG      =    Global Feasibility Study
FAE      =    State Water and Sewerage Fund
FGTS     =    Employee Indemnity Fund (BNH)
FINEST   =    Credit Lines for Sanitation Sector (BNH)
FSESP    =    Special Public Health Service Foundation
IERR     =    Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFRR     =    Internal Financial Rate of Return
ORTN     =    Readjustable National Treasury Bond
OT       =    Technical Supervision Agency (BNH)
PLAMBEL  =    Metropolitan Belo Horizonte Planning Authorities
PLANASA  =    National Sanitation Plan
SABESP   =    Sao Paulo State Water Company
SANEPAR  =    Parana State Water Company
SATECIA  =    Program of Technical Assistance for Institutional
Development of State Water Companies
SEAP     =    Special Secretariat for Supply and Prices
SEMA     =    Secretariat of the Environment
SFS      =    Sanitation Financing System (BNH)
SWC      =    State Water Company
UPC      =    Standard Capital Unit (BNH)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  GENERAL ..............................................                    1
II.  THE SECTOR ...........................................                     1
Country Background ...................................                   1
Service Levels .......................................    1
Sector Development ...................................    2
Institutional Development ............................    4
Financial Viability and Tariffs ......................    5
Environmental Legislation ............................    7
Bank Participation ...................................    7
Experience Under Previous Loans ......................    9
lII.  THE BORROWER .........................................   10
Organization ......................................... . 10
Sanitation Sector Operations .........................   10
Credit Lines .........................................   11
Evaluation of PLANASA Implementation .................   13
IV.  THE BENEFICIARY ......................................   13
Background ...........................................   13
Organization and Management ..........................   13
Technical Operations .................................   14
Financial and Commercial Organization ................  14
Commercial Operations ................................   15
Accounting Systems ...................................   15
Financial Planning ...................................   15
Audit ................................................   15
Insurance .................  16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the state of Minas Gerais during October 27 through November 9, 1979. The
mission was comprised of Messrs. C. Todd, Financial Analyst, L. Chang,
Engineer, A. Penfold, Engineer, Consultant and R. Cajiao, Engineer, Consultant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
V.  PROJECT AREA AND SERVICE LEVELS ......................    16
Location and Demography ..............................    16
Health and Service Levels ............................    17
VI.  THE PROJECT ..........................................    18
Project Origin .............                                                                18
Project Objectives ..................................A   19
Project Description .................................A    19
Expansion of the Metropolitan Belo Horizonte Water
Supply System .....................................A   20
Engineering and Status of Project Preparation ........   21
Project Costs .......................................A   22
Implementation ......................................A   23
Subproject Selection .................................   24
Environmental Aspects ................................   24
Procurement ..........................................   25
Disbursements .......................................A   26
VII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...................................   27
The Borrower .........................................   27
Past and Present Finances ..........................   28
Financial Projections ...............................   29
The Beneficiary ......................................   31
Tariffs ...........................................A   31
Revenue Covenant ..................................A   34
Financial Status and Projections ...................   35
Financing Plan .....................................   38
Monitoring Indicators/Reporting Requirements .......   39
VIII.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS .........................   40
Introduction .........................................   40
Internal Rate of Return and Average Long-Run
Incremental Cost ...............................A   40
Design and Selection Criteria .......................    42
Population Served ...................................    42
Impact on Urban Poverty Group-Metropolitan Belo
Horizonte Area ...................................A    42
Affordability of Project Services to the Urban Poor.    43
Project Risks .......................................    44
IX. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........   44



-3-
,TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Organization Charts-BNH and COPASA
2. Metropolitan Belo Horizonte Projected Water Demand and Supply
3. Construction Schedule and Timetable for Preparation of Studies
4. Project Cost Estimates
5. Subproject Selection Criteria
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7. BNH's Financial Statements
8.  Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections- -
9. COPASA's Financial Statements
10. Monitoring Indicators
11. Disbursement Procedures
12. Internal Rate of Return Calculations
13. COPASA's 1980 Investment Program
14. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
LIST OF TABLES
2.1 Bank Loans to Brazil for Water Supply and Sewerage
3.1 COSAN Organization Chart
5.1 Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels in Minas Gerais
6.1 Summary of Project Costs
7.1 BNH Summary Cash Flow Statement
7.2 BNH Summary Balance Sheets
7.3 BNH Projected Sources and Application of Funds
7.4 Basic Lending Terms for the Sanitation Sector
7.5 Tariff Structure of COPASA to be Effective July 1, 1980
7.6 Comparison of Revenue Covenant Requirements for the Year 1983
7.7 COPASA's Projected Rate of Return
7.8 Selected Financial Data-COPASA
7.9 Financing Plan for the 1980-84 Project Period
8.1 Internal Rate of Return
8.2 Water Supply and Sewerage Population and Incremental Served in
the Metropolitan Belo Horizonte Area
LIST OF MAPS
No. 14747R - Metropolitan Belo Horizonte Water Supply






BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. GENERAL
1.01      The Government of Brazil has requested Bank financing for the
expansion and improvement of water supply and sewerage systems in the State of
Minas Gerais. The water supply and sewerage systems for which Bank financing
would be provided under the proposed loan have a total cost of US$446 million,
of which the Bank loan of US$139 million would cover the foreign exchange
cost. The loan would be made to the National Housing Bank (BNH) for relend-
ing to the executing entity which would be COPASA, the state water company
of Minas Gerais. COPASA is a public agency owned by the state government and
is responsible for the implementation of the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA).
The works to be financed are scheduled for construction and completion in the
period 1980-84.
II. THE SECTOR
Country Background
2.01      Brazil has an area of 8.5 million km  and is divided into 22 states,
four territories, and one federal district. The population of Brazil was
estimated at 121.2 million at the end of 1978, and is growing at 2.9%
p.a. l/. Of this total, 76.1 million (62.8%) are classified as urban popula-
tion 2/, which is growing at an estimated rate of 4.5% p.a. By 1985, two-thirds
of Brazil's population is expected to be living in urban ienters.  While the
overall population density is only 14 inhabitants per km , the distribution
of population throughout the country is uneven. A high proportion of the
population is concentrated along the coast, particularly in the four south-
eastern states of Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, and Espirito Santo.
These states include the large urban centers of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo and
contain 42.0% of Brazil's population. This concentration is partially due to
migration from the north and northeast regions.
Service Levels
2.02      At present, about three-fourths of the urban population has access
to public water supply and about one-third is served by public sewerage.
There are, however, regional imbalances. Less than 50% of the population in
1/ Source of Population Statistics: Anuario Estatistico do Brasil.
2/ Brazilian official definition of "urban population" is based on adminis-
trative status rather than population (a county seat "sede do municipio"
is classified as urban).



- 2 -
the lesser developed states in the interior and northeast has water supply
service; many communities are not supplied at all. In rural areas, there are
only limited sanitation facilities, with less than 5% of the households having
water connections. Only 2% of the rural households have septic tanks, 30%
have latrines, and 68% have no satisfactory excreta disposal facilities. The
urban poor group is, however, the most severely affected by the lack of
sanitation services. Many of the urban poor are recent migrants who squat on
the periphery of metropolitan areas where the population is still to be
served, or in centrally located but often precarious squatter settlements.
Statistics on mortality and morbidity rates from waterborne diseases are not
complete, but the figures available indicate that infant mortality is
unacceptably high and there is a high incidence of deaths due to water-
borne diseases. Infant mortality in the country reaches 70 per 1,000 live
births and life expectancy is 62 years 1/. The infant mortality rate is
lower and life expectancy is lower than in countries with similar income
levels. The figures for Latin America are about 76.1 per 1,000 births for
infant mortality and 63.6 years of life expectancy.
Sector Development
2.03      Prior to 1971, expansion of urban infrastructure, particularly water
supply and sewerage facilities, had not kept pace with Brazil's overall devel-
opment due primarily to institutional problems and lack of financing. Respon-
sibility for these services had been vested in the municipalities, the level
of government that was weakest in organizational, technical and financial
capacity. Thus, in 1970, less than 60% of the urban population had access to
public water supply and less than 30% was connected to sewerage systems.
Furthermore, in the majority of Brazil's cities, the capacity of water supply
systems was insufficient to meet demand requirements.
2.04      Initial measures to improve sector development were undertaken in
1967 when the Federal Government created the Sanitation Financing System (SFS)
and assigned to it responsibility for financing the sanitation sector in the
country. At the same time, BNH was designated as the agency to operate SFS.
A concerted effort began in 1971 when BNH launched PLANASA, which encompasses
the design, financing, construction and operation of water supply and sewerage
services and the training of managerial personnel. PLANASA objectives for 1980,
as revised in 1975, are to install facilities which can provide water services
to reach 80% of the urban population 2/ in 80% of the urban communities and
1/   Source:  World Development Report, August 1979, World Bank.
2/   This percentage is not necessarily synonymous with water supply service
levels which will depend on the actual rate of connections to the
distribution systems.



- 3 -
sewerage services to all main urban centers (over 50,000 inhabitants). 1/
The program is expected to cost around US$7.5 billion in 1978 prices,
compared with the original estimate of $2.5 billion in 1971 prices. The
increase is the result of enlarged programs, initial under estimation of
project costs, and inflation which has particularly affected the construction
industry.
2.05      The PLANASA program on a state-wide basis was conceived to alleviate
regional imbalances in services through cross-subsidization and to remedy
deficiencies in qualified manpower, financial capacity, operations, and
maintenance and administration of systems, especially outside the capital
cities. The PLANASA program is implemented through state water companies
(SWCs) formed in each state through consolidation of existing regional or
local water companies. This consolidation has permitted economies of scale,
central review of all system designs, increased financial capacity, and
proper operation and maintenance of municipal systems. Each SWC is responsible
for construction, operation, and maintenance of the water supply and sewerage
systems throughout the state. Initially each SWC prepared a global feasibility
study (EVG) for its state, setting forth the sector's service level objectives,
priorities, and financing program. On the basis of this study and a commitment
by the state to provide one-half of the financing for the sector investment
program from a revolving State Water and Sewerage Fund (FAE), BNH entered
into "PLANASA Agreements" with all states. These agreements incorporate the
service level objectives of the EVGs and commit BNH to providing one-half of
the financing for the investment program.
2.06      Implementation of the PLANASA program has been slower than anticipated
because it took more time than expected to organize the SWCs and consolidate
operations, and the capacity of some SWCs to prepare and implement water
supply and sewerage projects was limited. In retrospect, the PLANASA
objectives were too ambitious considering the fragmented state of the sector
in 1971. Actual performance in water supply, however, has been satisfactory.
In 1971 PLANASA covered only 229 municipalities. By 1979, the number had
increased to about 2,100 or 66% of the 3,172 2/ urban centers expected to be
served under PLANASA by 1980. For the most part the remaining municipalities
are small communities, although several major urban centers have not yet been
included under PLANASA. Of the 160 cities and towns to be provided with
sewerage services under PLANASA, only 93 were partially served in 1978.
2.07      BNH forecasts that systems capable of providing water supply service
to 80% of the urban population will be installed by the end of 1980, and
expects that the objective of reaching 80% of the communities will be
1/   BNH, under Loan 1656-BR, is carrying out studies to use alternative
low-cost technologies in low-income areas in major metropolitan areas where
conventional piped sewerage programs are not technically appropriate or
are unaffordable by the users. In the proposed Southern States Water
Supply and Sewerage Project, BNH will make proposals based on these
studies to extend water supply services and waste disposal systems into
low-income areas and areas where conventional systems are not technically
feasible or economically affordable by the users.
2/   Equivalent to 80% of the total number of municipalities in Brazil.



attained. In view of the rate of expansion during the past four years, these
expectations appear optimistic, and an additional three years may be required
to meet water supply objectives. Because of the magnitude of the program
needed to meet the 1980 sewerage service level objectives, these objectives
will probably not be met until the second half of the decade.
2.08      The PLANASA program does not encompass the problems of basic rural
sanitation. There is no comprehensive program for the rural subsector, although
specific programs have been established at the federal, state, and municipal
levels. The Special Public Health Service Foundation (FSESP) in the Ministry
of Health is responsible for the expansion of water supply and sewerage
services in rural areas. FSESP has provided grants to poor municipalities for
implementation of water supply and waste disposal projects. Recently, BNH has
emphasized financial assistance to small communities in the rural subsector by
offering funds to state governments at interest rates of 2% p.a. below the rate
charged for urban projects (para. 3.07). Regional development agencies have also
been providing sanitation assistance to the rural population through their inte-
grated rural development programs.
Institutional Development
2.09      In 1974 BNH entered into an agreement with PAHO (SATECIA) 1/ to
carry out a technical assistance program aimed at strengthening the execution
capabilities and administrative efficiency of the SWCs. The program was
carried out by 36 specialists, including 12 foreign experts, and has improved
organization and financial reporting in the SWCs. The first three-year pro-
gram was completed in 1977. It included analysis of each SWC and recommenda-
tions for improvement and produced standardized information systems. A
two-year follow-up program to assist the SWCs in implementing improvements
has also been completed and a final six-month contract extension, using
4 specialists, will end on June 30, 1980. For the future, it is expected
that BNH will provide financing to the SWCs for technical assistance and
permit them to select their consultants.
2.10      As a complement to the technical assistance program, BNH has estab-
lished and is financing a national sanitation training program through the
Brazilian Association of Sanitary Engineers (ABES). The initial objective of
the program was to train 60,000 SWC employees by the end of 1980. In January
1977 a new target of 84,000 employees was set; to date about one-half of the
expected participants have been trained. BNH, ABES and the SWCs periodically
analyze the results and adjust the program to meet actual sector needs.
2.11      For the sector overall, project design and construction capabilities
and availability of financing from BNH/FAE appear to be in balance. BNH
supervises the loans through its regional offices and Technical Supervisory
Agencies (OTs). Project execution is monitored through periodic visits to
each project site by representatives of BNH and its OTs. Supervision covers
1/   SATECIA:  Programa de Assistencia Tecnica para o Desenvolvimento
Institucional das Empresas Estaduais de Saneamento.



- 5 -
technical, administrative and financial aspects of the projects and the SWCs;
the process works satisfactorily.  BNE s appraisal and supervision capabilities
will be strengthened to cover the expanded operations through technical
assistance to be provided by the Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage
Project.
Financial Viability and Tariffs
2.12      One of the basic principles of the PLANASA program is that the SWCs
should be financially viable with revenues sufficient to cover cash operating
and maintenance costs and debt service payments. For the sector generally and
most SWCs individually, this requirement has not been met. The principal
reason for this is the failure of tariffs to keep pace with inflation and with
increases in operating costs and debt service requirements. As a result, some
SWCs have been meeting debt service payments, and even operating expenses
through loans from BNH/FAE and state government equity contributions.
2.13      On May 11, 1978, a National Tariff Law (No. 6528) for the water
supply and sewerage sector was approved by the Brazilian Congress. The
objectives of the Law are to: (a) relate tariffs to costs of service; (b)
ensure that water supply and sewerage services remain affordable to the low-
income population by establishing a minimum-consumption tariff related to
income level 1/; and (c) ensure the financial viability of the SWCs by permit-
ting tariff levels which would produce a rate of return of up to 12% on
operating investments 2/. In addition, the Law requires that tariff studies be
undertaken in accordance with guidelines to be set by the Ministry of the
Interior.
2t14      Implementing regulations of the Tariff Law are contained in Decree
No. 82587 of November 6, 1978. The regulations set forth the procedure
for and frequency of tariff adjustments and spell out the criteria to be
used in the design of tariff structures. The regulations establish 1983 as
the year in which SWC revenues should cover operating and maintenance costs,
depreciation, and after covering these costs, provide a rate of return on
operating investments which would produce sufficient cash flow to cover debt
service. This objective is to be reached by a gradual program of tariff
adjustments, although interim objectives are not specified. Additional main
features of the Decree are:
1/   The monthly charge for the minimum block of water consumption (normally
10-15 m3 ) is not to exceed 35% of one readjustable National Treasury Bond
(ORTN); the combined charge for water and sewerage must not exceed 50%
of one ORTN.
2/   Defined as net fixed assets in operation, excluding those financed by
grants, and certain current assets (with limitations).



-6-
(a) SWC's will submit to BNH by March 31 of each five-year investment
programs and financial plans entitled Global Feasibility Studies
(EVG) which include tariff proposals aimed at gradually attaining
the financial objectives for 1983 (para. 2.13). BNH will review
these studies and submit tariff proposals to the Special Secretariat
For Supply and Prices (SEAP) 1/ in the Ministry of Planning for
approval; and
(b) consumers are to be classified into four categories 2/ and
tariffs are to be progressive and allow for cross-subsidization.
2.15      Pursuant to the legislation BNH prepared guidelines for the submission
of the SWC investment and financial programs, reviewed the initial submissions
and after revisions approved them in late 1979. As an interim measure, BNH
recommended and CIP/SEAP approved a 36% tariff increase effective January 1,
1979; SABESP (Sao Paulo) 3/ was granted an additional 22% in August 1979 but re-
quests by other SWC's were not acted upon. In late December 1979, SEAP approved
increases of 35% for all SWC's, except Sao Paulo, where an increase of 10% was
granted. The approved increases in 1979 were inadequate, and none of the SWC's
participating in Bank loans complied with its revenue covenant. During January
1980, BNH, together with SWC staff, prepared individual two-part tariff increase
proposals for all 21 SWC's, and submitted these to CIP/SEAP. From February through
April 10, 1980, SEAP approved 20 of the 21 proposals (which includes all eight SWC's
under existing Bank loans), granting increases ranging from 15% to 45%, and will
subsequently process a second increase six months after the first approval.
Even with the second round of increases (July to October 1980) it is unlikely
that COPASA (under loans 1009BR and 1309BR), SABESP (Loan 1525BR) and the
three SWC's under Loan 1656BR (para. 2.18) would meet in 1980 the existing Bank
loan revenue covenants. In line with the Government's objectives to reduce
inflation in 1980, the Bank agreed to waive the covenants under Loans 1525BR
(SABESP) and 1656BR (CAGECE, COMPESA and EMBASA) 3/ for 1980, subject to approval
of the second round of tariff increases not later than August 1, 1980 for SABESP
and October 1, 1980 for CAGECE, COMPESA and EMBASA respectively. In mid-January
1980, the Federal Government announced that the Treasury Bond Index (ORTN) which is
used to revalue fixed assets and most long-term local currency debts would cease
to be based on actual inflation. Instead it would be increased by a predeter-
mined percentage (45% for 1980). If the 1980 inflation exceeds this amount, the
fixed asset base of the SWCs would become undervalued. This would not have any
materLal effect on the finances of the SWC's, but would result in a transfer of
resources from BNH/FAE to water consumers. The Government was informed during
1/   Prior to September 1979, authority for tariff approval was vested in the
Interministerial PrLce Committee (CIP), which reported to the Ministry
of Finance.
2/   The four categories are:  residential, commercial, industrial, and public
institution.
3/   SABESP  =  Water Supply and Sewerage Company for the State of Sao Paulo
CAGECE        "      " i    f               "    "   "    "   "  Ceara
COMPESA =     "      "    "       "         " t      "    "   "  Pernambuco
EMBASA  =                     "        "       "   "   "       "  Bahia



negotiations of the Bank's intention to monitor the Government's asset
revaluation policies closely, and, if necessary, request changes to avoid
such adverse effects.
Environmental Legislation
2.16      In October 1973, the Federal Government created the Special Secretariat
for Environment (SEMA) in the Ministry of Interior to monitor changes in the en-
vironment, establish air and water quality standards, and coordinate all federal
pollution control programs. Several laws and decrees were issued thereafter to
enforce pollution control. In January 1976 the Government issed a regulation
classifying inland water resources according to their uses, and limiting their
contamination by setting up maximum permissible concentrations of physical,
chemical, and biological pollutants. Control of interstate water pollution
rests with SEMA and control of intrastate pollution by the state governments.
2.17      Implementation of the pollution control laws will demand large
investments, as well as substantial operational and maintenance expenditures
for sewage disposal. For those cities needing sewage treatment, the total
cost of the services could be so high that tariffs might not be increased to
a level sufficient to recover these costs. Capital contributions from the
state and/or the federal government, therefore, might be required in addition
to BNH and FAE debt financing. Sewage tariffs will have to be structured so
as to achieve, where appropriate, a cross-subsidization among the consumers,
in particular from the industrial ones, to make systems financially viable.
Studies to establish appropriate tariff structures and levels for sewage
collection and treatment are expected to be completed by December 31, 1980 under
the Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project (Loan 1525-BR).
Terms of reference for these studies have been reviewed by the Bank and
consultants have been hired.
Bank Participation
2.18      The Bank has been assisting Brazil slnce 1971 in the implementation
of PLANASA through the financing of seven water supply and sewerage projects,
as shown in the following table:



Table 2.1: BANK LOANS TO BRAZIL FOR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Year    Loan No.      Amount             Borrower                   Purpose
(US$ million)
1971    757-BR         22.0 b/    City Water Company   Sao Paulo water distribution
and storage (SAEC/SABESP)
1971    758-BR         12.0 a/ b/ City Water Company   Sao Paulo sewage collection
and disposal (SANESP/SABESP)
1974    1009-BR        36.0        BNH                   Water supply and sewerage
in the state of Minas Gerais
(COPASA)
1976    1309-BR        40.0        BNH                   Water supply and sewerage
in the state of Minas Gerais
(COPASA)
1978    1525-BR       110.0        BNH                   Sewage collection and dis-
posal in the city of Sao
Paulo (SABESP)
1979    1656-BR       100.0        BNH                   Water supply and sewerage
in the states of Bahia,
Ceara, and Pernambuco
(CAGECE, COMPESA and EMBASA)
1980    1823-BR       130.00       BNH                   Water supply and sewerage in
the states of Parana, Santa
Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul
(SANEPAR, CASAN and CORSAN)
TOTAL        450.00
a/   Original loan amount was US$15.0 million.
b/   Project completion report, project performance audit memorandum, and
project performance audit report are completed, and the latter has been
approved the Brazilian Government (para. 2.20)
An additional multi-state loan of about US$120.0 million for FY81 is being
prepared.
2.19      Total actual and planned Bank assistance to the water supply and
sewerage sector is estimated to account for about 6% of sector investment in
the period 1971-82. The only other external lenders to the sector since
1970 have been USAID 1/, which in 1971 extended a US$25.0 million loan to BNH
for urban sanitation, and IDB 2/, which in 1971 provided a US$30.0 million
loan to BNH for water and sewerage projects throughout Brazil.
1/   United States Agency for International Development.
2/   Inter-American Development Bank.



-9-
Experience Under Previous Loans
2.20      Two Bank loans to Sao Paulo for water supply and sewerage (757 and
758-BR) were completed after three-year delays. The delays were caused by
initial failure of the State of Sao Paulo to supply the necessary funds to
complete financing, substantial technical revision of the project, and reorgan-
ization of the executing agencies. Service levels exceeded expectations and
the Borrower substantially improved its overall operations. The conclusions
reached in the project performance audit report dated April 4, 1980 are:
(a) the projects achieved their main objectives;
(b) delays caused by lack of adequate and timely state government
financing indicates the need for appropriate commitments from the
state Governmeht; and
(c) the existence of three entities 1/ in the sector without a coordinating
body is not conducive to efficient and effective operation of the sector.
The main problems encountered during the implementation of these projects were
solved by the creation of PLANASA (para. 2.04) to provide the required government
financing and to organize the planning and implementation of sector investments,
and the creation of State water and sewerage companies to carry on the execution
and operation of works. The first and second Minas Gerais Loans (1009 and 1309-BR)
are fully committed: Loan 1009-BR is almost fully disbursed and Loan 1309-BR is
about 43% disbursed. The Bank has participated in 260 subprojects under Loans 1009-BR
and 1309-BR. 2/ Completion reports have been received by the Bank for all but two
of the subprojects in Loan 1009-BR and these two are almost complete. Implementation
is underway on all projects approved under Loan 1309-BR and about 40, principally
small communities, are complete. The third Sao Paulo Loan (1525-BR) became
effective in August 1978 and the Northeast States Loan (1656-BR) became effective
in July 1979. In Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo project progress is satisfactory
and the institutions are performing efficiently. The Northeast Brazil project
started slowly, and indications are that it may suffer a one-year delay.
The water utility in Sao Paulo complied with the loan revenue covenant in 1978,
but in Minas Gerais it was not met. None of the SWC's supported by Bank lending
through 1979 are expected to meet the Bank loan revenue covenants or rate-of-
return covenants in 1979 and 1980 because of lack of adequate tariffs (para. 2.15).
2.21      The Bank has been holding regular discussions with BNH regarding improve-
ment of its operations in the sanitation sector. The major improvements have been:
(a) the delegation of responsibility for project approval and loan
supervision to BNH's regional offices, resulting in faster execution;
(b) the establishment of a uniform accounting system for the SWCs, which
will enable BNH and the SWCs to have uniform and reliable financial
information; and
(c) the establishment of the National Tariff Law. The Bank is working
closely with BNH to improve project preparation, appraisal, and
supervision, and to develop general information systems for BNH's
water supply and sewerage lending operations (para. 2.11).
1/   One for water production, one for water distribution and sewage collection,
and one for sewage disposition.
2/   There were 13 additional subprojects in COPASA's 1974-1979 investment programs
in which the Bank did not participate because the subprojects did not meet
subproject selection criteria. These 13 subprojects represented only 5.2%
of COPASA's total investments in that period.



- 10 -
III. THE BORROWER
Organization
3.01      The Borrower for the proposed loan will be BNH which has also been
the Borrower for the last four Bank loans in the water supply and sewerage
sector. BNH was established by federal law in August 1964, and since 1967 has
reported to the Ministry of the Interior. It has legal personality, is tax
exempt, and legally is administratively and financially independent of the
Ministry. Its major activities have been financing of low-cost housing
programs, urban development, and sanitation.
3.02      BNH is administered by a Board of Directors (Conselho de Adminis-
tracao) and an Executive Committee (Diretoria). The Board consists of the
seven directors of the Executive Committee and nine counselors. The Executive
Committee is composed of the President of the Board and seven Directors, all
appointed by the President of the country with the approval of the Federal
Senate. Each Director heads one of the seven Operating Departments of BNH 1/.
Top management that assumed office in March 1979 is actively pursuing a
program of simplifying operations and improving efficiency. BNH's operations
are the direct responsibility of the President and department directors,
but responsibility for decisions on routine matters has been delegated to
Regional Credit Committees.
Sanitation Sector Operations
3.03      Since September 1967 BNH's Division, Operations Division for the
Sanitation Finance System (COSAN), 2/ has been responsible for water and
sewerage activities. COSAN consists of three subdivisions as indicated
in Chart 3.1. The Analysis and Programming Advisor is responsible for the
review and approval of each SWC's water supply and sewerage investment program.
Projects included in the investment programs are normally prepared by local
consultants retained by the SWCs, or sometimes by SWC staff. The technical
aspects and costs of the projects are then reviewed by OTs, and if acceptable,
the projects are forwarded to BNH headquarters by the regional office for
final evaluation and approval. The Control Advisor supervises the OTs, which
in addition to reviewing project design, assist in supervision of construction.
COSAN also provides SWCs with technical consulting services when needed. The
Finance Advisor authorizes disbursements from BNH and FAE and monitors the
financial performance of the SWCs.
3.04      Project technical review, limited approval of water supply projects,
and supervision are carried out by 11 BNH regional offices. The regional
offices, established in December 1976 are each responsible for SWC programs in
one or more states. These offices are analogous to COSAN in BNH headquarters
and operate under well-defined guidelines. The functions of the offices
include the control of loan agreements between BNH and the SWCs, controlling of
disbursements, updating project's physical and disbursement schedules, monitor-
ing the performance of the FAEs and the OTs, and supervising SWCs' operations,
1/   See Annex 1.
2/   This Division was denominated Superintendency for the Sanitation Finance
System (S/SFS) unitl December 31, 1979.



- 11 -
technical assistance, and training programs. This decentralization is working
satisfactorily. In addition, BNH contracts external auditors for each Bank
loan. These auditors issue quarterly reports, which BNH sends to the Bank, in
which the auditors certify that BNH reimbursement requests are correct and apply
to Bank approved subprojects, certify that the beneficiary applied the funds
properly, and reconcile the accounts of BNH, the financial agent, and the
beneficiary.
Credit Lines
3.05      BNH has established a basic line of credit for the water supply and
sewerage sector. Through this line, BNH lends to the SWCs (through financial
agents which are in most cases the state banks) 50% of project costs for
medium and large-size cities 1/. For purposes of determining the loan amount
for all BNH credit lines, project costs include project related expenses which
are capitalized, interest during construction, and other financing charges. A
second line of credit (FINEST I) 21 has been created to help the states meet
their obligations of financing 50% of project costs whenever the state, for
budgetary or other reasons, is unable to provide their contribution to the
FAE fund. Under this line, loans are made directly to the states (through
financial agents) and channeled to SWCs as conventional FAE loans (para. 3.06).
Two additional credit lines with the objective of promoting investments in
small communities (FINEST II and III) are also available for direct lending
to state governments (through the financial agents). Under FINEST II, BNH
finances 100% of subproject costs up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the state's budgeted allocation for small communities. Under FINEST III,
BNH finances 50% of costs of subproject for small communities with the state
financing the other half of costs from its own resources. For both FINEST II
and III, the SWCs receive approximately 70% of the funds fropm the state as
equity and 30% as a FAE loan. Loans granted to the states under FINEST I,
II and III are repaid to BNH out of the proceeds of general tax revenues.
Principal and interest payments on all BNH loans to the SWCs are guaranteed
by the state governments.
3.06      State government funds for financing 50% of subproject costs are
deposited in the FAEs for lending to the SWCs. FAE is a revolving fund and
it is continually replenished by appropriations from the state government,
normally equivalent to up to 5% of the state tax revenues and by SWC debt
service payments. If 5% of the state tax revenues is not sufficient to finance
50% of the subproject costs, the state can borrow the balance from BNH under
the FINEST I line of credit.
3.07      Interest rates on BNH loans to SWCs and state loans under FINEST I
for urban water supply and sewerage projects vary from 2% to 7% p.a., depending
upon the per capita tax revenue levels in the state. Under FINEST II and III,
the interest rate to the state is 2.0% p.a. below the normal rate of interest.
Interest rates on FAE loans range from 2% to 6% p.a. with the lowest rate applied
1/   Medium-size and large cities are those over 5,000 people; small-size
villages are those with less than 5,000 inhabitants. This classification
is based on 1970 census figures which use Brazilian legal definitions.
2/   Subprograma de Emprestimo Suplementar = Subprogram for supplementary
loan.



CHART 3.1
BRAZIL-THRID MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COSAN Organization chart-Juanuary 1, 1980
Director
AsSistsM.lt Directorj                                                 Assistant Director                                                 Assistant Director
Plaiiiilr)(I ari(i                                                     Studies andci                                                   Administration
Oje srati On al ContI rol                                              Technical Control                                                     and Finance
Tatil  CpraIona!                               EXPCL t                all         Technical          Programs &
Planning     Analys IS       Control anci    InStItutiona         Analysis                        Community                               Control           FAE Control   Adminisrative
Diviiof  AL,fitOf  'L'C'SDevelopment        DivsinDiv,s on                    Programi          Dvso           of SFS Resources          Division        Assistance
Division         Dvisionri
World Bank   21602



- 13 -
to sewerage projects. Maturities on both BNH and FAE loans are normally 18 years
for water supply projects after a one to three-year grace period on principal
repayment and 30 years for sewerage projects 1/ after a one to four-and-one-half
year grace period. Interest and principal on loans are denominated in Standard
Capital Units (UPCs) 2/.
Evaluation of PLANASA Implementation
3.08      Prior to 1975, the PLANASA program did not develop as expected, due
to weak organization and management in many of the SWCs, underestimated project
costs, poor engineering studies, overoptimistic scheduling, and a shortage of
materials and equipment. COSAN activities were centralized at BNH headquarters
in Rio de Janeiro, where the incomplete information forwarded by the SWCs
further delayed project review and approval by overworked staff. In early
1976, BNH issued new regulations decentralizing COSAN and delegating more
responsibility and authority to the regional offices in order to speed up
implementation. Under the new tariff regulations, BNH requires the SWCs to
prepare integrated investment programs and financing plans. As a result, the
quality of the planning and investment programming has greatly improved.
BNH's project selection, approval, disbursement, and loan supervision proce-
dures are also improving. Technical assistance for further improvement
will be provided under the proposed Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (para. 5.08).
IV. THE BENEFICIARY
Background
4.01      The beneficiary and executing agency for the project will be COPASA 3/,
the SWC for the state. The state of Minas Gerais has complied with COSAN
requirements and has signed a PLANASA agreement. The agreement sets forth
service level objectives and state financial participation which empower
BNH to supervise all of the investment programs financed by BNH. COPASA has
completed its EVG and has ongoing construction programs financed by BNH,
FAE, and the state.
Organization and Management
4.02      COPASA is owned by the state government and its headquarters are
located in Belo Horizonte, the state capital. Its Board of Directors is
appointed by the State Governor for a period of four years; the actual
President and Board of Directors were appointed in March 1979. Apart from the
President, who is the Chief Executive Officer, each Director is the working
head of one of the functional departments.
11   Extension of sewerage terms and reduced FAE interest rate was approved
in June 1979.
2/   Unidade Padrao de Capital - An accounting unit which is revalued quarterly
using the National Treasury Securities Index (ORTN).
3/   COPASA - Companhia do Saneamento de Minas Gerais, S.A.



- 14 -
4.03      The organizational structure of COPASA has evolved with the assis-
tance of SATECIA as well as Booz, Allen, Hamilton, Consultants, and has
departments for project planning and construction, technical operations,
administration, research, and, finance and commercial (Organization Chart,
Annex 1). In addition, COPASA has a Planning Division whose scope has
recently been enlarged, and provides for additional staff to cover Post-
Project Evaluation and expand its activities related to regional development
organizations. This organizational structure is considered appropriate for
the activities undertaken. Management is considered to be satisfactory for
the projects being implemented under Loans 1009-BR and 1309-BR and for this
project. Current administrative costs appear excessive, and management is
conducting a study of this problem (para. 7.17).
Technical Operations
4.04      COPASA and the state government establish the priorities for
the extension of water supply and sewerage services in the state based on
assessed needs in the various communities. Engineering studies and design
as well as supervision of works are executed mainly through local consultants,
who are satisfactory. COPASA's engineering unit, the OT, and BNH's regional
office review designs and monitor construction. Construction activities are
carried out by local contractors, who generally are experienced and capable.
Projects have been implemented on a somewhat delayed basis, but project pro-
gramming and control procedures have been strengthened to handle the increased
volume of construction in the period 1980-84. Technical operations are satis-
factory, especially in view of the difficulties caused by wide geographic dis-
persion of a number of small municipalities (in 1974 COPASA did not operate
any but by 1979 more than 100 were operated). COPASA has decreased the ratio
of employees/1,000 connections 1/ from 14 at the end of 1974 to 9 at the end of
1979 which represents a substantial improvement in efficiency in personnel
utilization, and is better than the average in LAC water utilities. COPASA's
ratio of 9 employees/1,000 connections is the same as those of Santa Catarina
and Parana. COPASA's ratio is higher than the 7 employees/1,000 connections
in Rio Grande do Sul. The training program of the SWC is appropriate to its
requirements.
Financial and Commercial Organization
4.05      The functional Divisions of Accounting, Finance, Budgeting and
Commercial report to the Financial Director of COPASA. The Accounting
Division is responsible for general accounting, cost accounting, tax and
financial reporting. The Finance Division is responsible for financial plan-
ning, treasury and control of borrowing. Budgeting is responsible for coor-
dinating the preparation of the company's detailed annual budget and report-
ing of actual performance. The Commercial Division is responsible for all
connections, meter reading, billing and collection. This organizational
structure is appropriate and the director, managers, and staff are satis-
factorily implementing their functions.
1/   Considering total staff, water supply connections only.



- 15 -
Commercial Operations
4.06      Commercial operations are satisfactorily managed.  They are compli-
cated by the fact that the company serves a large number of small municipalities
scattered over a wide geographic area. About 91% of the communities have fewer
than 4,000 water house connections and 67% have fewer than 1,000 connections.
Metered residential consumers account for Sver 95% of total connections and
monthly volumes of water sold average 19 m per connection. COPASA provides
100% production metering for all systems operated (151 at December 31, 1979);
COPASA's consumption metering policy is to attain 100% in cities with greater
than 10,000 inhabitants, and in other systems metering of all connections
larger than 5/8". As of June 30, 1979, COPASA had 444,091 connections, 82% of
which were metered. In the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area 93.2% of the
201,030 connections were metered. Meter repair and main storage of new meters
is centralized in Belo Horizonte; stocks of new and repaired meters are also
kept at the regional offices. This meter-repair facility operates satisfactorily.
4.07      Meters are read monthly on a continuous basis (by zones in the major
cities), and consumers are billed around the 10th of each month. The monthly
statements for all communities are prepared by a centralized computer in Belo
Horizonte. Payments of accounts are made through local banks or at SWC
offices, and all collections are remitted to headquarters. Collections are
efficient as evidenced by the fact that outstanding accounts average two-and-
one-half months billing.
Accounting Systems
4.08      Accounting functions are centralized at COPASA headquarters.
COPASA utilizes BNH's uniform chart of accounts prepared in January 1976 by
COSAN with the assistance of SATECIA, and the bulk of their accounting is
computerized. The introduction of the uniform system of accounts and the use
of the computer provides timely financial reports for management review.
These procedures will permit BNH to consolidate COPASA's financial statistics
with those of other SWCs (for sectoral data) and evaluate and compare SWC's
financial performance on a consistent basis. At present the uniform system
of accounts does not, however, provide for a statement of source and applica-
tion of funds. Under the Northeast States Project (Loan 1656-BR), BNH is
revising the uniform accounting manuals to include cash flow statements,
and will implement the revision during 1980.
Financial Planning
4.09      COPASA prepared its investment program and operating and finan-
cial projections (EVG) for 1979-83 inclusive in compliance with BNH's 1978
regulations. BNH requested that the plan submitted in early 1979 be modified.
The revised program is consistent with COPASA's executing capabilities,
BNH/FAE fund availability, and the National Tariff Law and Regulations. This
program will be revised annually and submitted to BNH and the Bank for review
on or about April 30 each year (para. 7.21).
Audit
4.10      Since early 1976, COPASA has had an Internal Audit Division.  This
Division reports to the President's Office, and is functioning satisfactorily.



- 16 -
COPASA also retains an independent external auditor 1/. The external auditor's
reports contain valuable recommendations, and have provided the Bank with
an in-depth review of COPASA. In addition, BNH retains an external auditor
to review the accounts of COPASA and the financial agent to ensure that PLANASA
funds are properly disbursed and accounted for. This auditor also reviews BNH
reimbursement requests to the Bank to ensure authenticity. Assurances were
obtained from COPASA that its accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year will continue to be audited by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Assurances were obtained that by April 30 of each subsequent year, certified
copies of the audited financial statements and audit report will be submitted
to the Bank. COPASA agreed during negotiations to have the report of the
independent auditor continue to include a statement on compliance with Bank
loan covenants.
4.11      In addition to its audit, BNH provides continuing control over
disbursements on projects. At the time a loan contract is signed with
BNH/FAE, the SWC presents a monthly disbursement schedule against which
the OT and the BNH regional office compare actual disbursements. When actual
disbursements are 20% below projections, BNH and FAE disbursements are sus-
pended until the SWC provides a satisfactory explanation. BNH's technical
staff, OT staff and COPASA's consultants visit project sites on the average
of once a month to verify the extent to which construction is completed. In
addition, the OT certifies that all invoices submitted by COPASA cover materials
or civil works for the approved subprojects (Annex 11). The BNH regional
office, which supervises COPASA, is functioning satisfactorily.
Insurance
4.12      COPASA carries fire insurance coverage for buildings, contents and
warehouse stocks, materials and equipment transfers and transport of all materials
as well as third-party liability on its vehicles. Coverage is satisfactory ex-
cept for valuation of warehouse stocks, which the Bank has recently requested
BNH and COPASA to take corrective action. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that COPASA will provide insurance coverage including high-risk
project construction coverage acceptable to the Bank.
V.   PROJECT AREA AND SERVICE LEVELS
Location and Demography
5.01      The proposed project is located in Minas Gerais, the second most
populous state in Brazil. In mid-1979 its total population was estimated
at 13.6 million, or about 11.5% of Brazil's population. More than half the
state's population is classified as urban, living in 722 municipalities of
500 or more inhabitants. The state's annual population growth rate is about
3.5% while population grows at 4.5% p.a. in the urban centers.
1/   Boucinhas, Campos and Claro S/C Ltda. for 1979; from 1974-78 the auditor
was Price Waterhouse and Co.



- 17 -
Health and Service Levels
5.02      Health statistics show that the infant mortality rate was 59 per
thousand live births in 1975 for the state, and 116 for the municipality
of Belo Horizonte 1/, as compared with 45 for the southern states, 70 for
the country, and 60 for Latin America. This high rate is associated with
poor sanitation and unsatisfactory water supply services. Life expectancy in
1970 was 55 years, compared with 61 years for the southern states and 53 years
for Brazil.
5.03      Service levels for the state of Minas Gerais by mid-1979 are
summarized in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1:  WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SERVICE LEVELS IN MINAS GERAIS a/
Total Population   Served with Water   Served with Sewerage
Millions     _      Millions      %         Millions    %
State of Minas Gerais  13.59       100.0     6.61       48.7         3.99      29.4
Urban population       8.87       65.3     6.53       73.6         3.99      45.0
Rural population       4.72       34.7     0.08        1.7             -        -
Metropolitan Belo
Horizonte              2.39       17.6     1.44       60.3         0.98      41.0
a/   Total served including those served by COPASA and others.  COPASA served
about 3.2 million people with water in 1979.
The country-wide averages for urban house connections are 75% for water supply
and 35% for sewerage. PLANASA's targets of supplying water to 80% of the
population in at least 80% of all communities and sewerage services in all
state capitals and main urban centers by 1980 will not be reached in the state.
5.04      After seven years of implementation, the PLANASA program has
increased water services in 1979 to about 74% of the urban population of Minas
Gerais, representing 6.5 million inhabitants. Every year, about 40 additional
cities are provided with water services through house connections under the
small community program.
5.05      Belo Horizonte is the capital of the State of Minas Gerais.  The
metropolitan area comprises eight municipalities 1/. It is Brazil's third
most populous city with an estimated 2.3 million inhabitants (17% of the
State's population) in 1979. The city is growing rapidly through immigration
from rural areas. The city is also experiencing rapid economic growth. Belo
Horizonte is thus developing the complex urban problems common to other rapidly
growing Brazilian urban centers, such as Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
5.06      Belo Horizonte's population in recent years has grown at a rate of
about 7.5% per year. The Metropolitan Belo Horizonte Planning Authority
(PLAMBEL) forecasts that population will grow at an average rate of 7% annually
until 1985, at 5% from 1985-90, and 3% thereafter until the year 2000.
1/   Belo Horizonte, Contagem, Betim, Nova Lima, Ibirite, Sabara, Santa
Luzia, and Riberao das Neves.



- 18 -
5.07      In 1975 COPASA, through external consultants, developed a water
supply master plan for metropolitan Belo Horizonte, which was reviewed and
found satisfactory as a study of alternatives for water source selection and
for purposes of long-range water water supply planning. The master plan estab-
lished targets of population to receive water services up to the year 2000.
Projections for water production combines domestic, commercial and industrial
needs and assumed a domestic per capita consumption which would progressively
increase from the present average of 205 liters per capita per day to 250 by
1990, assuming that water availability in sufficient quantities to attend
demand is ensured (para. 6.04) and by improving the water pressure balance
in the distribution system; at present water pressure is uneven and low in
some upper levels of the distribution system. These projections are satis-
factory, are confirmed by historical consumption trends (Annex 2), and will
be reviewed periodically since they are essential for planning the successive
stages of water supply for the metropolitan area.
5.08      The provision of water services to medium-size cities and small
communities through house connections automatically increases water consumption.
Because of this normal increase, there is an imperative need to provide
sewerage services to this same population. Provision of sewerage services
is usually more expensive than provision of water services, mainly when
sewage treatment is required to cope with the increasing demand for pollu-
tion control in the receiving waters. The Bank and BNH have discussed this
problem, and under the proposed Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Loan,
BNH has agreed to continue studies to extend services which are technically
feasible and economically affordable to low-income areas.  In addition, BNH
has agreed to provide the results of these studies and its proposals to the
Bank for its comments.  BNH has agreed to make the results of these studies
available to all SWCs.  Additionally the Bank is providing BNH with technical
assistance for studies through the UNDP Global Program for Low-Cost Water
and Sanitation Techniques.
VI. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
6.01      In August 1979, Brazilian authorities and the Bank held discussions
on the continuation of Bank support to PLANASA through a third operation in the
State of Minas Gerais. BNH and the Government of the State of Minas Gerais
have identified an urgent need for expansion of its water and sewerage services
in the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area and in other cities throughout the
State. The priority given to assist the State of Minas Gerais is based on
the following reasons:
(a)  the continuous, high population and industrial growth of metro-
politan Belo Horizonte requires massive investment in new water
supply sources and distribution as well as sewage collection and
adequate disposal for that geographic area;
(b)  the master plans for development of additional sources of water
supply and expansion of the metropolitan sewerage program were
prepared under Bank assistance and supervision, and require new
financial assistance in order to be implemented; and



- 19 -
(c) the proposed third Minas Gerais Project would be a continuation
of the first two Bank operations in Minas Gerais, providing fur-
ther Bank assistance to COPASA to strengthen its financial viability
and management efficiency and to ensure that urban and rural popula-
tions benefiting from the program would receive services at the
lowest possible cost through an appropriate tariff structure.
Project Objectives
6.02      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to develop water sources to improve and extend the supply of water
to the metiopolitan Belo Horizonts area, increasing water production
from 6.9 m /sec in 1979 to 11.6 m /sec in 1984, to meet 80% of the
domestic water demand requirements for 1984 serving an additional
population of about 1 million inhabitants, of which about 380,000
are urban poor (para. 8.07) and to provide water to the growing metro-
politan industrial park;
(b) to improve the health conditions of the population in the metro-
politan Belo Horizonte area by increasing the present level of
sewerage service from 46% to at least 60% of the population in 1984,
serving an additional population of about 1.1 million inhabitants,
of which about 304,000 are urban poor; by expanding the sewage
collection system to serve additional industries; and by the
construction of a sewage treatment plant in one section of the Belo
Horizonte area;
(c) to continue a water supply and sewerage service program in the medium-
and small-size cities, providing water supply to an additional
population of about 0.9 million people by 1984 throughout the state;
and
(d) to improve the environmental and health conditions of the popula-
tion of Belo Horizonte by protecting the catchment areas of their
drinking water sources, including industrial pollution control.
Project Description
6.03      The project consists of a group of water supply and sewerage sub-
projects, included in COPASA's EVG, to be carried out in the State of Minas
Gerais in the period 1980-84. The main components of the project would be as
follows:
(a) continue the expansion of metropolitan Belo Horizonte's water supply
system in accordance with the master plan; the plan includes the
following elements:
(i) development of a water source in Serra Aiul to increase
water production capacity by about 2.6 m /sec, including
construction of the water intake from the Serra Azul
reservoir 1/, a raw-water transmission line, a pumping
station and a water treatment plant;
1/   Construction of the dam and reservoir are being financed under Loan 1309-BR.



- 20 -
(ii)  construction of about 85 km of main transmission lines
(600 - 2,100 mm in diamiter), pumping stations, and
approximately 116,000 m total capacity of water storage
reservoirs to regulate the water supply in metropolitan
Belo Horizonte;
(iii)  construction of a dam and reservoir on the Rio das Velyas
River to ensure a continuous water supply of up to 6 m /sec
for metropolitan Belo Horizonte;
(iv)  expansion of a water distribution system, including industrial
and house connections in the periphery of Belo Horizonte,
Betim, and Contagem; and
(v) execution of production and consumption metering programs.
(b)  continue the expansion of the sewerage system and improvements in
metropolitan Belo Horizonte in accordance with the master plan,
including:
(i) construction of main sewage interceptors in the areas of
Arrudas and Ressaca, and others;
(ii)  expansion of the sewerage system by construction of new
sewage collectors and house connections in about 1,500 ha;
and
(iii)  construction of an oxidation pond sewage treatment plant
in the municipality of Santa Luzia (in the Belo Horizonte
area) to serve about 70,000 inhabitants.
(c)  construction or expansion of water and sewerage services to about
30 medium-size cities;
(d)  expansion of the small community water supply program to serve
an additional population of approximately 400,000 people in about
150 communities by 1984; and
(e)  provision of technical assistance and consulting services for execu-
tion of specific studies relating to the protection of water sources
(paras. 6.17 and 6.21), and administrative costs (para. 7.17) detailed
engineering design, and construction supervision.,
Expansion of the Metropolitan Belo Horizonte Water Supply System
6.04      In order to ensure the availability of an adequate supply of water
for metropolitan Belo Horizonte through the year 2000, all possible water
sources were studied during the development of the water supply master plan
(para. 5.07). After economic analysis of various alternatives, a sequence of
next-in-line sources within about 30 km of the city meeting the least-cost



- 21 -
solution criteria (Annex 2 and Map IBRD 14747R)) was identified. Development of
these water resources has necessitated the constriction of reservoirs for river
flow regulation. Construction of an 80 million m raw water capacity reservoir
on the Serra Azul River is being financed under the Minas Gerais Water Supply
and Sewerage Project (Loan 1309-BR). At present, the Rio das Velhas source is
unable to supply the demand required during the3dry period, and the proposed
project includes construction of a 30 million m reservoir on the Rio das
Velhas River. The master plan calls for the construction of two additional
reservoirs by 1992.
6.05      Exp nsion of ths Rio das Velhas water treatment plant from the
present 4.5 m /sec to 6 m /sec is underway. The water intake, pumping station,
and treatment plant should be in operation by mid-1980. However, hydrologica4
data shows that water abstraction from this source cannot be more than 2.5 m lsec
during short periods of the dry season. For this reason and because Federal and
State River Regulations make it compulsory for all water users to maintain a
steady water flow in the river equal to the minimum water flow registered, COPASA
urgently needs to build a reservoir to secure its water requirements from Rio das
Velhas. Through the construction of this dam a safe yield of 8.5 m /sec will be
secured at all times, and by 1991 another reservoir in the Rio das Velhas catch-
ment area should be completed to secure a safe yield of 11.5 m /sec.
6.06      The construction of the proposed dam on the Rio das Velhas River will
create a reservoir in which its water end-tail will flood the generators of an
existing hydroelectric plant which is located upstream of the proposed dam. The
plant, operated by the Minas Gerais Electric Energy Company (CEMIG) has capacity
of 3 MW. CEMIG had agreed to transfer the plant to the proposed new dam site
where the plant would have a potential capacity of up to 8 MW. Both agencies
are presently negotiating to determine the feasibility of moving the plant and
the responsibility of each agency in the cost of doing so. Since COPASA and
CEMIG are state companies, it is expected that satisfactory agreements can be
reached, and, during negotiations the State government agreed to carry out
an economic study to be completed no later than June 30, 1981, to determine
the appropriate distribution of the cost of moving the Rio das Velhas hydro-
electric generating plant and transmission facilities between COPASA and CEMIG.
Meanwhile, the cost of moving CEMIG's plant is included in COPASA's investment
cost and financing plans. There are no human settlements below the dam, hence
human life would not be endangered nor would there be significant economic
losses in the case of dam failure. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from BNH and COPASA that a panel of experts, acceptable to the Bank, will review
the engineering studies and design concepts of the dam and submit a report to
BNH and the Bank for their review and acceptance before construction starts.
Assurances were also obtained that the experts will advise COPASA on construction
supervision of the dam and make sure that suitable maintenance and inspection
programs for operation are established.
Engineering and Status of Project Preparation
6.07      Final engineering is completed or well advanced for all major sub-
projects in metropolitan Belo Horizonte, with the exception of Rio das Velhas
Dam. Final studies for dam design have started, and given the geological



- 22 -
knowledge and experience from the existing upstream dam, the final designs for
the Dam should be completed in time for construction to start by mid-1981.
Preliminary studies and costs estimates for this subproject have been based
on similar existing works and others now under construction.
6.08      Feasibility studies for medium-size cities have been completed, and
detailed engineering and specifications are being prepared by external consul-
tants. Basic information and preliminary studies as well as cost estimates
for communities to be included in the small community water supply programs
have been prepared by COPASA's Technical Department, and final engineering
designs will be prepared by external consultants. Approximately 40% of the
project works are already designed and bids equivalent to about 30% of the
total project investments will be advertised and awarded during 1980. The
execution and supervision of the works should not present difficulties, as
there are many qualified construction and consulting firms in the country. About
4,500 man-months of engineering consultants will be needed to assist COPASA in
the preparation of final engineering designs, specifications, bidding documents
and supervision of construction during the 4.5 years of project implementation.
Project Costs
6.09      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$446.0 with a foreign
exchange content of US$139.0 million cost. Cost estimates are net of taxes, and
are based on November 1979 prices with a disbursement profile of four and one-half
years beginning in mid-1980. Table 6.1 summarizes the project costs; detailed cost
estimates are given in Annex 4.
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(In US$ millions)
Project Elements                                  Local   Foreign   Total   %
Water supply for metropolitan Belo Horizonte        90.4     57.2    147.6  33.1
Sewerage for metropolitan Belo Horizonte           41.8      14.7      56.5  12.7
Water supply-medium-size cities                     22.1     12.3      34.4   7.7
Sewerage-medium-size cities                        23.0      10.1      33.0   7.4
Water supply-small communities                      21.5      7.9      29.4   6.6
Studies and improvements                             8.7      1.0       9.7   2.2
Engineering and technical services                  27.9      3.1      31.0   7.0
Base Cost                                    235.4    106.2    341.6  76.7
Physical contingencies                              23.5     10.6      34.1   7.6
Price escalation                                    48.1     22.2      70.3  15.7
Total Project Cost                           307.0    139.0    446.0 100.0
6.10      Project costs were prepared using bills of materials for those
subprojects with final engineering designs and COPASA's latest bid prices
for civil works and materials and information from suppliers and consultants



- 23 -
for equipment costs. Cost estimates for those subprojects not having engineer-
ing designs were obtained on the basis of recent average unit per capita costs
using similar subprojects being executed by COPASA. COPASA's engineering
department maintains current information on construction and equipment costs
for all subproject elements. Physical contingencies for the Rio das Velhas
Dam, which is in design stage, has been estimated at 15% given the knowledge
of the geology of the dam site and the recent price quotations for the con-
struction of the Serra Azul Dam. Physical contingencies for other project
elements such as large water transmission lines for Belo Horizonte are esti-
mated at 5% because they are fully designed, and will be installated along
existing roads. Physical contingency allowances for the project average
10% of the estimated base cost, after weighing the various project components
and their degree of preparation. Engineering and consulting services have
been estimated on the basis of US$6,000 per man-month cost. The man-month
cost represents the man-month rate as billed by the consulting firm for
individuals which includes: salaries, social costs, firms' overhead and
profits. Other costs needed for the consulting services such as: vehicles,
local offices, equipments, and local transportation are estimated at US$3
million. The UPC (para. 3.07) was used in calculating the project costs and
converted to US Dollars at one UPC = $13.81 as of November 1979. Price excala-
tion of 7% p.a. has been applied to the base cost and physical contingencies,
expressed in UPC, which is adequate.
6.11      COPASA's investment program will be financed by loans from BNH, FAE,
and state capital contributions for the small-community program (para. 7.19).
The Bank loan of US$139 million would finance 100% of the estimated foreign
exchange cost of the project, representing 31.2% of the project's cost.
Assurances should be obtained during negotiations that the state government
will supply adequate local currency funds to carry out the Bank-financed
program in a timely fashion.
Implementation
6.12      The project will be executed by COPASA during the period 1980-84
(para. 6.03). The construction schedule for the various elements of the Belo
Horizonte water supply and sewerage subprojects, as well as the medium-size
cities is given in Annex 3. Annual construction schedules for the cities
included in the small community water supply program would be prepared during
project execution and agreed upon by COPASA, BNH and the Bank in July of the
year preceeding construction. Subproject designs will be prepared by consul-
tants and subsequently reviewed by COPASA and CETESB 1/. CETESB, a well-known
training and consulting company in sanitary engineering and environmental
problems owned by the state of Sao Paulo, has been BNH's OT for COPASA since
1974. CETESB's performance has been satisfactory; its engineers for project
review and supervision of project approval and execution are well qualified.
BNH's regional office has taken important responsibilities in project execution
and coordinates the entire project.
1/   CETESB - Companhia Estadual de Tecnologia de Saneamento Basico e de
Defesa do Meio Ambiente.



- 24 -
6.13      The Bank will review all subprojects with an estimated investment
cost of US$2.0 million or more. The Belo Horizonte water and sewerage
subprojects, and 20 medium-size cities subprojects, (which the Bank has
already reviewed) and about 10 subprojects which will require review during
project execution, represent about 80% of the programmed investment. Sub-
projects which have an estimated investment cost of less than US$2.0 million
may be approved by BNH, subject to ex-post review by the Bank on a selective
basis. The small community water supply program will be a continuation of the
pilot program started under Loan 1309-BR, utilizing the experience obtained
during that program and in accordance with the technical guidelines for a small
community (population of less than 5,000 inhabitants) prepared by BNH and
satisfactory to the Bank. At the time Bank financing is approved for a
particular subproject, funds sufficient to cover the Bank's share of subproject
costs will be committed to the subproject to ensure Bank participation up to
the time of its completion.
6.14      COPASA should not have major problems in carrying out the proposed
investment program and construction schedule.1/ About 69% of the large mono-
lithic civil works are concentrated in Belo Horizonte, where the largest
construction firms are located. COPASA has well-qualified personnel, most of
whom have been working with the company longer than five years, and have
gathered valuable experience through implementation of previous Bank Loans.
Subproject Selection
6.15      Loan 1309-BR financed the studies for Belo Horizonte's water and
sewerage master plans. Bank supervision missions reviewed the terms of
reference for the studies and later the final studies to select the least-cost
solutions. Final designs have been prepared following normally accepted
engineering principles. For other subprojects, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the selection criteria agreed upon by the Bank and
BNH for the project will be used (Annex 5).
Environmental Aspects
6.16      COPASA will expropriate a strip of land around the Serra Azul
Reservoir to prevent urban or recreational development which might cause water
pollution. The watershed area draining into the proposed reservoir, however,
has been subject to indiscriminate logging and heavy overgrazing
which have caused serious soil erosion. Measures should be taken to restore
and improve the catchment area, in order to reduce the runoff, decreasing soil
erosion effects and downstream flooding during periods of extensive precipi-
tation. Final effects would be improved water quality, an increase in catch-
ment capacities, and better peak runoff regulation. The resulting reduction
in silt accumulation increases the reservoir capacity and reduces water production
costs. As construction of the Serra Azul Dam has begun, a study of the catch-
ment area should be conducted to recommend the measures to be taken to protect
the water quality and improve the operation of the reservoir. This study
should make a comprehensive survey of land use and activities in the catchment
area. It should also propose technically sound measures to preserve and en-
hance the productive capacity of the catchment area and diminish soil erosion.
1/   Annex 13 discusses COPASA's capability and actions taken to manage the
substantial increase in investment from 1979 to 1980.



- 25 -
These measures should be politically and economically feasible and will include
appropriate proposals for a viable form of administrative watershed management
which could be applied to other watersheds.
6.17      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that COPASA, with the
assistance of the state will prepare terms of reference for the Serra Azul
catchment area protection study and present them for the consideration of BNH
and the Bank not later than January 31, 1981. The study should not take longer
than one year and be carried out by consultants satisfactory to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that thereafter the recommendations
of the study as agreed between COPASA, BNH and the Bank will be implemented with
the full support of the State Government.
6.18      The project will increase the sewerage service levels and thereby
improve living conditions in those areas now most affected by lack of
sewerage facilities. The project will help to strengthen federal and state
water pollution control aiming at the protection of water sources and pollution
abatement. There are no negative environmental effects associated with the
project.
6.19      The expansion of existing, and development of new, water supply
sources are the main elements of the metropolitan Belo Horizonte subproject.
These water resources, the Rio das Velhas and Rio Paraopeba, are located in
the "Ferrous Quadrangle", where most of Brazil's iron ore is mined. In the
mining process, liquid wastes are often directly discharged into the two
rivers, increasing the amount of sediment in the water. The higher level of
chemically polluting sediments affects the water quality for drinking purposes,
resulting in substantially high water treatment costs.
6.20      The mining industry is considered a strategic industry of national
interest and any action which requires the mining industry to provide proper
waste treatment requires concurrence from the federal government. COPASA has
no authority to deal with the problem. The State Secretariat of Science and
Technology, through its Environmental Policy Commission (COPAN), is responsible
for pollution control; however, there are no state regulations to enforce
SEMA's environmental pollution regulations.
6.21      Given the importance of protecting the water supply source for the
population of the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area and other cities in the State
of Minas Gerais, assurances were obtained that, not later than October 31, 1980,
the State, with the direct assistance of the Federal Government, should prepare
terms of reference satisfactory to BNH and the Bank, for a study to be financed
by BNH of the impact of mining waste pollution in the Rio das Velhas and
Paraopeba Rivers on the treatment costs and final water quality. The results of
that study are expected to be ready by December 31, 1981. BNH and the Bank
should review the study, and the recommendations contained in such study, as
agreed to with the Federal Government, the Bank and BNH, should be implemented
thereafter with the full support of the State and Federal Governments.
Procurement
6.22      Project goods purchases and civil works will be processed under
contracts awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding. However, civil works contracts under US$3.0 million



- 26 -
and contracts for equipment or materials under US$0.4 million can be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procurement procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Submissions
from international contractors and suppliers for bidding advertised locally
will not be precluded.  COPASA has already made available to the Bank a general
procurement notice which has been published in the Development Forum 1/.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that COPASA will update the
notice annually as long as any goods or works remain to be processed. The
Bank will make a prior review of bidding documents and proposed awards for
all contracts estimated to cost US$1.0 million or more for equipment and US$4.0
million or more for civil works. For all other contracts, COPASA will make
available to the Bank for review copies of each contract together with the
respective bidding documents, bid-analysis report, and recommendations for
award. In the evaluation of bids, local manufacturers will be allowed a
margin of preference, either 15% of the c.i.f. price or the applicable import
duty, whichever is lower. Consulting services will be awarded on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. It is expected that all contracts for
engineering design and supervision will be awarded to local firms. Given the
advanced development of the civil works construction industry in Brazil, all
civil work contracts are expected to be won by local contractors. Most of
the equipment and materials contracts are also likely to be won by Brazilian
firms or local subsidiaries of foreign suppliers.
Disbursements
6.23      The Loan would be disbursed over a five-year period.  Continued
disbursement of the loan after December 31, 1981 would be conditional upon
COPASA's tariffs having been increased in real terms during 1981. No disburse-
ment will be considered for construction of the Rio das Velhas Dam until the
report of the panel of experts reviewing engineering studies and design concepts
(para. 6.06) has been received and accepted by the Bank. The project would be
completed by December 31, 1984. The closing date would be June 30, 1985.
Annex 6 gives the estimated schedule of disbursements. The proceeds of the
Loan would be made available to BNH as follows:
(a)  58% of BNH's disbursement to COPASA on eligible subprojects; 2/
(b) 29% of BNH's disbursement to COPASA under the FINEST II line-
of-credit approved subprojects; 3/ and
(c) 58% of BNH's disbursement to COPASA under the FINEST III
line-of-credit for small communities program.
1/   Issue dated December 14, 1979.
2/   BNH lends and disburses to COPASA 50% of the direct project cost, an
amount equivalent to about 6.5% of the direct project cost to cover
COPASA's project related expenses and an amount equivalent to about 4%
of the direct project cost to cover COPASA's project interest during
construction.  The disbursement percentages have been derived to exclude
Bank financing of capitalized interest. Disbursements includes the studies
to protect the catchment area of Serra Azul reservoir and the mining waste
pollution up to US$300,000.
3/   BNH loans under FINEST II finance 100% of the direct project cost
an amount equivalent to about 13% of the direct project cost to
cover COPASA's project related expenses, and an amount equivalent
to about 8% of the direct project costs to cover COPASA's interest
during construction. The Bank loan does not finance interest during
construction.



- 27 -
6.24      Bank disbursements would be made against a certificate of expendi-
ture (Annex 11) made by the Borrower for each subproject. The detailed
documentation of the certificates would not be submitted for Bank review, but
would be retained by the beneficiary and made available for inspection during
the course of supervision missions. Disbursements for consulting services
would be made against standard documentation. Similar procedures are being
successfully used in previous Bank loans for the sector in Brazil.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
The Borrower
7.01      BNH is the largest government-owned banking institution in Brazil
dedicated to social development. Its total assets at the end of 1978 were
US$14.2 billion. BNH's main activities, which are nationwide, are concerned
with the financing of low-cost housing, urban development, and the sanitation
sector. Between 1971-80, BNH will invest about 54% of its resources
in low-cost housing programs, 17% in urban development for infrastructure and
mass transportation systems, 17% in sanitation projects, and the remaining 12%
in studies, training, technical assistance, and miscellaneous activities.
BNH's primary source of funds is an 8% employer's payroll contribution
(Employee Indemnity Fund-FGTS) for all nongovernment employees covered by labor
legislation. Individual FGTS accounts are maintained for the participants (in
UPCs) and withdrawals of the deposits can be made when a worker is unemployed
or retired. All deposits are subject to monetary correction and those made
after 1974 earn interest at the rate of 3% p.a. Other fund sources for BNH
include interest and principal repayments from its existing loans and invest-
ments, sale of government securities, and other deposits.



- 28 -
Past and Present Finances
7.02      The following summary financial statements indicate the development
of BNH's financial acti-vities since 1971. Full details are given in Annex 9.
Table 7.1:  BNH SUMMARY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(US$ millions)
1971     1973      1975     1977    1978
Loan and Service Income              163.0     341.1    559.6    801.3    955.7
Less Operating Expense               102.0     196.5    339.0    592.6    734.5
Operating Income                      61.0     144.6    220.6    208.7    221.2
FGTS Deposits (net)                 424.4      727.1  1,135.1  1,458.0  1,748.5
Loan Amortization/Other              249.0     361.8    904.7    912.2  1,384.9
Total Sources                     734.4   1,233.5  2,260.4  2,578.8  3,354.6
New Loans Granted                    618.4   1,021.9  1,939.4  2,483.2  3,010.8
Other Applications                   116.0     211.6    321.0      95.6    343.8
Total Applications                734.4   1,233.5  2,260.4  2,578.8  3,354.6
Table 7.2: BNH SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS
(US$ millions)
December 31                 1971       1973      1975       1977     1978
Loan Receivables                1,545.3   3,131.7   5,461.4   9,631.0  11,918.6
Negotiable Bonds                  203.8      761.1   1,120.0   1,003.2   1,289.3
Other Assets                      378.1      345.4      893.2     931.6   1,027.1
Total Assets               2,127.2   4,238.2   7,474.6  11,565.8  14,235.0
FGTS Fund Deposits              1,741.5   3,373.3   5,337.7   8,021.7   9,855.3
Capital and Reserves              283.8      696.4   1,349.8   1,644.5   1,871.2
Other Liabilities                  101.9     168.5      787.1   1,899.6   2,508.5
Total Liabilities          2,127.2   4,238.2   7,474.6  11,565.8  14,235.0



- 29 -
7.03      BNH's gross loan and service income has shown steady and rapid
growth since 1971 (29% p.a.), and until 1976 operating income increased at
the same rate and averaged about 40% of revenues during the period. Loan
and service income growth slowed to about 20% p.a. in 1977 and 1978.
Operating income declined from US$256.0 million in 1976 to US$208.7 million
in 1977 and US$221.2 million in 1978. These operating incomes represented
26% and 23% of loan and service income respectively. This reduced margin
reflected primarily the fact that operating expenses increased at more than
twice the rate of revenue growth in 1977 and about 25% faster in 1978. There
was, however, improvement in 1978 which resulted from the efforts of BNH's
management to hold down growth of its expenses. The program of economy is
being continued by BNH's new management.
7.04      Since 1971, net receipts of the FGTS program have grown at a rate of
22% p.a.  In 1978 they increased by 20% to US$1,749 million and represented
about 52% of total BNH fund sources, slightly less than the level which
prevailed in 1971 (58%). Amortization of loan principal, which has increased
since 1974, was up 33% in 1978 to US$881 million, and short-term deposits and
other sources in 1978 were slightly lower than during the previous year at
US$504 million. Total funds available for investment in 1978 were US$0.6
billion higher than in 1977 and new loans increased by US$0.5 billion to
US$3.0 billion.
7.05      Since 1971, BNH's loan portfolio has expanded almost 700%.  Its
total assets have grown by 570%, a record of outstanding growth. To protect
the FGTS from losses due to inflation, BNH denominates all financial trans-
actions in UPCs (para. 3.07). Additionally, BNH requires that all its loans
be guaranteed by state or municipal governments or financial institutions, or
secured by mortgages where appropriate. At the end of 1978 BNH's capital and
reserves were equal to 13% of liabilities, which is satisfactory.
7.06      As covenanted under previous loans, and as agreed during negotiations,
BNH will have its accounts for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and will submit the audited financial statements and
auditor's report to the Bank within four months of the close of each fiscal year.
Financial Projections
7.07      Each year BNH prepares a three-year investment program (expressed
in UPCs) which is submitted to the Minister of Interior for approval. BNH's
investment budget for 1979-81 totals US$13.0 billion with projected fund
sources and applications, as indicated in Table 7.3.
7.08      During the three-year program, BNH's growth in disbursements has been
projected at 13% p.a. The sectorial distribution of investments has shifted
slightly in favor of housing over the past several years, while sanitation
lending has remained at about 16% of total lending. Revenues are projected
to grow at a rate of 25% p.a. during the 1979-81 period. BNH's administrative
costs, however, are projected to increase at a rate of 40% p.a. In 1981,
administrative costs will be equivalent to 13% of total income, versus 9% in
1978. This increase is attributed to the need for expanded technical assistance
and additional personnel for the decentralization of BNH's activities. BNH's
management is aware of its rapidly increasing administrative costs and has
programs underway to promote better utilization of its personnel.



- 30 -
Table 7.3: BNH PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS (1979-81)
Amount          %
(In US$ millions)
Sources
FGTS (Net)                                     6,267          48
Net Receipts on Lending Operations             3,972          31
Operating Income                               1,323          10
Sale of Securities/Other (Net)                 1,205           9
Foreign Loans (including Bank Loans)             240           2
Total Sources                           13,007         100
Applications
Housing                                        8,871          68
Sanitation                                     2,117          16
Urban Development                              1,274          10
Technical Assistance                             594           5
Other                                            151           1
Total Applications                      13,007         100
7.09      BNH's lending terms for the sanitation sector reflect social consid-
erations and are not strictly commercial. Interest rates on basic lending and
FINEST I vary from 2.0% p.a. to 7.0% p.a. with the lower rates applicable to
the poorer states. Interest rate concessions have been granted for sewerage
projects and for supplemental lending programs (FINEST II and III). In June
1979, the grace and amortization periods on sewerage loans were extended
from 3 years to 4-1/2 years and from 18 years to 30 years respectively.
Effective March 28, 1980, BNH reduced the interest rates on all new FAE loans
for water supply from the previous 3%-6% level to a 2%-3% level, and for all
new FAE sewerage loans to a flat 2% until July 31, 1981. Depending on the
relative movements of exchange rates and the index used by BNH for monetary
correction (ORTN), the effective interest rate on the Bank loan may be higher
than the on-lending rate of interest. The new method for adjusting the ORTN,
(para. 2.15) might require a review of the interest rates at which BNH provides
funds to the SWCs and to the state governments. If inflation exceeds the



- 31 -
prefixed ORTN, BNH could be on-lending funds at negative real interest rates. l/
This, coupled with the fact that maturity of BNH's loans to COPASA exceeds the
maturity of the Bank Loan, is likely to cause BNH's debt service payments to the
Bank to exceed payments to BNH. BNH's financial position is expected to be
strong enough to absorb this shortfall without difficulty. A comparison of Bank
terms and BNH onlending terms to the SWCs follows:
Table 7.4: BASIC LENDING TERMS FOR THE SANITATION SECTOR
Normal                Minas Gerais
PLANASA Terms                 Terms           Bank Terms
BNH          FAE         BNH         FAE
Currency of
Currency                          UPCs                    UPCs            Disbursement
Annual Interest (%)        2.0-7.0 a/ 2.0-3.0 c/    4.0   2.5-2.0 c/  To be determined
Grace Period (years)         1-4.5       1-4.5      1-4.5    1-4.5             3
Final Maturity (years) b/  18-30        18-30      18-30      18-30           15
a/   Under supplemental financing plans (FINEST II and FINEST III), BNH finances
the state government at interest rates 2% lower than shown; the SWC receives
71% of the investment as state grants and the remainder at normal FAE interest
rates.
b/   Water supply, 18 years maturity; sewerage, 30 years maturity.
c/   Prior to March 28, 1980 these rates were:  Normal PLANASA 3.0-6.0, and
Minas Gerais 4.0.
7.10      In addition to the interest rate, BNH charges a fee of 1% on each
disbursement for administration, 1.2% for OT operations, and 0.5% for BNH's
technical services. BNH's financial agent, which is normally the State Bank,
is entitled to add up to 1% p.a. to the interest rate to cover administrative
expenses and is entitled to receive 0.1% of each periodic payment made by the
SWCs to amortize the loan. The resulting interest cost on BNH loans to COPASA
is about 5% p.a.
The Beneficiary
Tariffs
7.11      COPASA's tariff structure will be, during 1980, divided into four
categories (residential, public institution, commercial and industrial) for
application in July 1980. Each category will have one tariff for a minimum
quantity of water and one or more higher tariffs for consumption in excess of
minimum. The system:
1/   In addition, if construction costs increase faster than the ORTN, exist-
ing financing contracts with SWCs might not cover sub-project costs, and
provision for cost overruns would have to be made in future BNH financing.



Table 7.5: TARIFF STRUCTURE OF COPASA TO BECOME EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1980 a/
(In Current Cr$)
3             ~~~~~3
Quantity in m3       Tariff Per m
I.  Residential a/                                    0-10                5.15
11-15                7.27
16-20                7.94
21-25                8.30
26-30                8.89
31-40                9.53
41-50               10.17
51-75               10.88
76-100              11.64
101-200              12.47
Over 200             13.32
II.  Public Institution                                0-15                7.50
Over 15              12.50
III.  Commercial                                        0-20                8.50
Over 20               9.20
IV.  Industrial                                        0-30                8.60
Over 30               9.25
Contracted Services
Available to large volume users                                   Negotiated
Sewerage                                                --              70% of the water billing
a/ Unmetered connections, primarily in communities with populations of 10,000 and under, are charged
the basic rate for the full quantity of the first tariff step (Category I or II), depending upon
the customer class.



- 33 -
(a) is progressive;
(b)  provides low-income consumers with lOnm /month at subsidized tariffs
(Cr$51.50/month or US$1.66) as of January 1, 1980, which is below the
maximum allowed by the tariff regulations; 1/ and
(c) meets all other requirements of the 1978 tariff regulations.
The residential minimum of Cr$5.15/m  (US$0.17/m ) increases 82% through
ten progressive steps for consumption in excess of the minimum. The
public institution minimum tariff is greater than that for residential
consumers, and the commercial and industrial minimum tariffs are greater than
the company's average tariff of Cr$6.79. Sewerage tariffs are 70% of the water
bill for consumers who have sewerage connections. COPASA recently stopped
charging its residential customers for the cost of minimum diameter water
supply and sewerage connections, but all residential users continue to be
charged for the cost of connections in excess of minimum diameter. Other
categories of users are charged for all connections. 2/
7.12      This tariff schedule is applied to all systems operated by COPASA
in all cities without regard to individual city investment or operating
costs. This tariff system is satisfactory to the Bank because it provides for
cross-subsidization within the state system, and meets all technical require-
ments of Brazilian Tariff Regulations.  COPASA is considering i-creasing the 3
minimum unmetered water billing from the present minimum of lOm /month to 12m
month which would increase minimum billing from the present level of 11% to
13% of one ORTN. The latter is still far below the maximum permissible level.
7.13      While the general tariff structure is adequate, the specific rates
will require real increases and further restructuring to promote conservation
of water. COPASA will be developing minor sewage treatment facilities in
this project. COPASA agreed during negotiations to prepare sewerage
tariff proposals based on BNH's recommendations which will be in accordance
with the legislation. COPASA will review the proposals with BNH and the
Bank by September 30, 1981, and will submit the proposal to the appropriate
tariff approval authorities by December 31, 1981. This is a modification of a
requirement under the second Minas Gerais Loan (1309-BR). The modification
was introduced because of the passage of national tariff legislation and be-
cause a sewage collection and treatment study is being carried out under the
Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project (Loan No. 1525-BR), which
would be the basis for the COPASA proposal.
1/   A maximum of 35% of one ORTN per month; the August ORTN was Cr$400.71.
2/   The "no-charge" policy became effective in 1977 when PLANASA initiated
financing for house connections. This policy has encouraged consumer
connections, particularly for those in the low-income range.



- 34 -
Revenue Covenant
7.14      COPASA is the beneficiary of Loans 1009-BR and 1309-BR, both
of which were signed prior to the existence of the National Tariff Law
and its implementing regulation. The revenue covenants devised at the time
would produce results similar to the Law in 1983 as demonstrated below:
Table 7.6: COMPARISON OF REVENUE COVENANT REQUIREMENTS FOR YEAR 1983
(In millions of UPCs)
Section 4.09 of
Loan Agreement 1009-BR
and Section 4.06 of
Law 6258           Loan Agreement 1309-BR
Revenues are required to cover:
Operating costs                             3.88                       3.88
Debt service a/                             2.89                       2.89
Similar elements                        6.77    86%                6.77 =  91%
Depreciation                                1.11                         --
1% reserve on operating gross
fixed assets                                --                      0.42
increase in working capital other
than cash, project payables, and
current maturities                          --                      0.22
Net nonoperating                              --                       0.05
Dissimilar elements                         1.11    14%                0.69 =   9%
Total requirements                         7.88   100%                7.46 = 100%
a/   Includes interest and principal payments.
7.15      The National Tariff Law requires higher performance than existing
loan covenants (in 1983 and thereafter) and COPASA's management is fully
aware of the need to improve its financial position. COPASA agreed during
negotiations to a revenue covenant which will require that tariffs be
established at levels specified in the Law and Regulations (para. 2.13 and
2.14), and in order to have conformity among the three projects, it was also
agreed during negotiations that the revenue covenants in Loans 1009-BR and
1309-BR would be superseded by this new covenant. The Law and Regulations
require that in 1983 and subsequent years revenues are to be sufficient to cover
operating costs (operations, maintenance, commercial and administrative~ costs),



- 35 -
depreciation, and provide a rate of return on operating investments 1/ which
will generate the cash equivalent of full debt service (para. 2.14). The
tariff regulations provide for the SWCs to increase tariffs gradually in order
to meet the 1983 requirements. COPASA and the Government have agreed to in-
crease tariffs in 1980 as required up to 45% 2/, which is the Government's
objective for the rate of inflation in Brazil for the year. On the basis of
further financial studies to be completed annually (EVGs), tariff adjustments
will be defined in real terms and implemented progressively in 1981 and 1982
in order to achieve the 1983 requirements of the National Tariff Law. Pro-
vision was made for periodic review with BNH of the tariff increase requirements
in 1981 and 1982 to ensure that proposed tariff increases will be sufficient to
meet the requirements of the law in 1983. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from the Federal and State Governments and BNH that they will support
and assist COPASA in meeting the revenue covenant. The rates of return expected
in 1980 together with the projected rates of return required in 1983 under the
provisions of the tariff law and regulations are given in Table 7.7 below:
Table 7.7: COPASA's PROJECTED RATE OF RETURN a/
1980    1981    1982    1983 b/   1984
------------Percentage---------------
5.5     8.1     8.6      9.1        8.8
a/   During 1980-82 the rates of return provide full cash requirements.
b/   The year that the tariff regulations become fully effective.
Financial Status and Projections
7.16      Assumptions for financial projections and detailed past and projected
income statements, cash flow statements and balance sheets are presented in
Annexes 7 and 8. Because of the high rates of inflation which distorts direct
year to year comparison, the historical statements and projected statements
have been stated in average annual UPCs. The tariff levels assumed are those
which will permit COPASA to comply with the Tariff Law and Regulations and the
interim objectives in Table 7.7.
7.17      From 1975 (the first full year under the Loan 1009-BR covenant)
through the estimated results of 1979, COPASA failed to comply with the
covenant, however the gap between revenues and cash requirements and between
revenues and full loan covenant attainment have steadily lessened. In 1975,
1/   Operating investment is defined as net fixed assets in operation, exclud-
ing those financed by grants and current assets (with limitations). For
purposes of analysis and the revenue covenant, it has been assumed that
the rate base (operating investments as defined in the Tariff Law and
Regulations) will be equivalent to average net fixed assets in operation.
2/   COPASA was granted 22% effective February 1, 1980; a supplemental
tariff adjustment is to be made effective on August 1, 1980.



- 36 -
COPASA would have needed additional revenues of 26% to meet cash requirements
and an additional 48% to meet the revenue covenant. In 1979, the additional
revenues to meet cash needs are estimated at 14% and at 17% to meet the full
loan covenant. The gap in cash requirements has been met through state capital
contributions. Comparison of actual results during the 1977-79 period with
projections made in Loan 1309-BR indicate difficulties in meeting the projected
level of investments and operating results.
1977                 1978                   1979    -
Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal   Actual
---------------------In millions of UPC---------------------
Investments           5.2        3.1        4.7        3.4        4.1        4.6
Operating Costs       1.6        1.3        1.9        1.8        2.1        2.2
Net Income            0.4        0.1        0.5       (0.1)       0.9       (0.5)
Rate of Return - %   7.9         7.7        8.2        3.9       11.1        0.7
COPASA was unable to control two factors which limited its investment potential:
(a) a 20% reduction in 1977 in planned investments imposed by the Federal Govern-
ment; and (b) State government delays in increasing the capital of the Minas
Gerais Development Bank to enable it to act as guarantor for BNH loans to
COPASA. COPASA however could have speeded up 1978 investments by presenting
an EVG earlier than it did. In addition to suffering from inadequate tariff
increases, net income was affected by the rapid increase of administrative
costs. COPASA's management has initiated a study of administrative costs and
estimated administrative needs for the next four years in an effort to contain
and eventually reduce this cost element. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that COPASA's study will be completed by September 30, 1980, will
be submitted to BNH and the Bank for comments, and its recommendations imple-
mented starting January 1, 1981. During the 1975-78 period, COPASA's working
ratio fluctuated, but averaged at a 74% level. This level can be expected to
increase to about 84% in 1979 due primarily to two major wage increases in
1979 without compensating tariff adjustments. The company expanded from
operating 38 systems in 1975 to 128 systems (many of these were high-cost
operations in small communities) by 1978 and to about 150 systems at the end
of 1979. Because accounting for fixed assets was changed as of December 31,
1977, a traditional rate of return on operating fixed assets is not comparable
for years prior to 1978. The 1978 rate of retun of 3.9% is expected to drop
to a totally inadequate 0.7% in 1979, but it is projected to rise to 8% or
more by 1981 and thereafter. The following table summarizes financial results
for 1977 and 1978 and projections through 1984.



- 37 -
Table 7.8: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - COPASA
(UPC millions)
P RO0J EC T ED
1977  1978   1979   1980  1981   1962  1983   1964
Pop'ulation served water  (000)  1,525  2,300  3,115  3,798  4,394  4,868  5,538  6,341
*Water produced (millions m3)  175.7  215.7  259.1  303.0  337.8  367.3  406.5  457.1
Water sold  (millions m3)  129.8  150.8  181.4  218.4  250.5  280.0  317.1  356.5
Unaccounted for water - S  26.1   30.1  30.0   27.9   25.8  23.8   22.0  22.0
REvenues                    1.91  2.41   2.73   3.86  5.10   6.39  8.01   9.94
Operating costs           1.31   1.81   2.29  2.69   3.08   3.45  3.88   4.35
Depreciation               0.17   0.26   0.36  0.44   0.59   0.82  1.11   1.53
Interest                   0.32   0.43   0.48  0.58   0.74   0.97  1.48   2.03
Excess cash generated      -      -      -     -      -      0.68   1.77   2.88
Working ratio              68.6  75.1   83.9   69.7  60.4   54.0   88.4  43.8
Debt service cuverage      0.7    0.7    0.4   1.0    1.4    1.5   1.4    1.4
Rate of return (%)         7.8 a/    3.9  0.7  5.5    8.1    8.6   9.1    8.8
Debt/total capital (X)     73.2  74.3   79.3   84.1  87.4   88.0   87.1  85.1
Contribution to investment (x)  -  -     -     -      2.9   6.8  12.0  24.4
*/ Not c pacaolc with subsequent years due to accounting changes on December 31, 1977.
7.18      The projections for 1981 and 1982 may be altered during the annual
reviews of the EVG's (para. 7.21) in order to facilitate a smooth transition
to full compliance with the Tariff Law and Regulations in 1983. COPASA
should achieve a satisfactory cash position by 1980 and thereafter, pro-
vided that it achieves increases in real terms which average 10.5% p.a.
during the 1980-84 project period. The problem of increasing tariffs in real
terms is compounded by high rates of inflation which, in 1979, was 77.2% p.a.
Adjustments are now being made more often than annually as was the previous
practice. Compliance with the legislation will ensure that COPASA will be
financially strong and will increasingly be able to finance capital expendi-
tures from internal cash generation. The projections assume that COPASA will
continue to receive capital contributions from the state for the small community
program. Due to COPASA's progressively larger net income resulting from tariff
legislation, its decreasing volume of projected investments after 1984, and
the capital contributions, COPASA's debt/equity ratio would peak at 88/12
in 1982, and decline thereafter. Its rate of return would reach a satisfactory
level of 8% p.a. plus by 1981, and from 1982 forward the company should reach
a level where its revenues could provide an internal contribution to future
investment. In 1984 the percentage of new investment which could be financed
from internal cash generation is projected to be 23% 1/. By 1983, COPASA will
have to meet unaccounted-for water targets of:
(a) 20% in the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area; and
(b) 25% in those cities which have full consumption metering.
1/ For financial projection purposes, the "excess cash" generated by inclusion
of depreciation in 1983 and thereafter as part of the tariff is shown as
"excess cash generated" in Table 7.8).



- 38 -
These measures have been agreed upon with management, and were confirmed
during negotiations.
Financing Plan
7.19      The financing plan for COPASA during project implementation period
(1980-84) is summarized in Table 7.9.  All capital expenditures, except those
for small communities, are assumed to be financed by BNH/FAE loans under
terms described in paras. 3.05-3.06; small community projects will be financed
through 71% state capital contribution and 29% FAE loans. The Bank loan will
finance about 31% of the direct project cost and will meet about 18% 1/ of
COPASA's borrowing requirements during 1980-84. Debt service will increase
very rapidly; it would have a growth of 211% from 1979-83 and a growth of 332%
from 1979-84. This growth would be reduced substantially if the proposal in
para. 7.09 becomes effective. Internal cash generation will, nevertheless, be
sufficient to cover debt service requirements and working capital needs. Since
PLANASA provides for coverage of substantially all of COPASA's investments by
debt financing, it is not required to achieve a higher level of cash generation.
Table 7.9: FINANCING PLAN FOR THE 1980-84 PROJECT PERIOD
(US$ millions)
Requirements                                  US$        -%
Investments in the project                  446.0       50.6
Interest capitalized                         30.0        3.4
Other works                                 352.2       39.9
Working capital                              53.8        6.1
Total                                    882.0      100.00
Sources
Long-term debt
IBRD Loan 1009-BR and 1309-BR              26.2        3.0
IBRD new project                          139.0       15.8
BNH                                       234.8       26.6
FAE                                       395.0       44.7
State equity capital                         29.0        3.3
Internal cash generation a/                  58.0        6.6
Total                                    882.0    100.00
a/   After debt service
1/   Excluding Loans 1009-BR and 1309-BR.



- 39 -
7.20      All financial projections include COPASA's full investment
program and financing plans, which are approved by BNH. The Bank project
would finance this investment program, except those medium and large cities
for which COPASA does not have concessions. These latter projects represent
18.5% of COPASA's total investment program for the period 1979-83, and will
affect operating costs and revenues from 1984 forward when the Tariff Law will
be in full application. These projects were discussed with COPASA's management
during appraisal, and with one or two exceptions, they had little confidence
that concessions would be obtained in the short run. In the event that conces-
sions are not obtained, the projected investments would not take place.
Monitoring Indicators/Reporting Requirements
7.21      In order to permit the satisfactory monitoring of its investment
program and financing plans, COPASA agreed during negotiations:
(a)  to incorporate into its EVG (para. 4.09), projections for
an income statement, statement of cash flow, balance sheet,
and calculation of the rate base for purposes of calculating
the rate of return;
(b)  to establish, not later than September 30, 1980, modifications to the
existing quarterly progress reports for Loans 1009-BR and 1309-BR
which would include a system of monitoring indicators satisfactory
to the Bank (Annex 10). Under this system, COPASA would provide
quarterly progress reports, beginning with the first quarterly report
for 1981, which would include:
(i) progress on project implementation, giving details on design
completion, physical execution of the works, and disbursements;
(ii)  statistical data for the number of water and sewer connections,
volume of water produced, volume of water and sewerage billed,
and average tariffs; and
(iii)  preliminary financial statements indicating key operating and
financial ratios separately for water supply and sewerage;
(c)  to prepare a report satisfactory to BNH and the Bank on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the project, not later than four
months after the loan closing date. BNH agreed during negotiations
to take responsibility for the preparation and submission to the
Bank of a project completion report on the project within six months
of loan closing.



- 40 -
VIII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
8.01      The project is designed to provide the least-cost solution to the
problem of providing potable water supply to an additional 1.9 million people
and sewerage to an additional 1.4 million in the state of Minas Gerais by 1984
(para. 6.02). The primary objective is to alleviate the undesirable effects
caused by waterborne diseases in that segment of the population which does not
presently have a potable water supply. In the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area
where health statistics are more reliable, reported deaths caused by gastro-
enteritis and other diarrhetic diseases were 98.8/100,000 inhabitants which
is higher than comparable ratios of 50 in Colombia, 72.2 in Mexico and 69.8 in
Latin America. A second major objective is to provide new sources of water
supply and expanded sewage collection infrastructure to facilitate industrial
growth and minimize health hazards from eventual contamination in the metro-
politan Belo Horizonte area.
Internal Rate of Return and Average Long-Run Incremental Cost
8.02      Internal rate of return (IRR) for the Bank financed investment program
has been calculated using revenues as a proxy for economic benefits. The
investments include the cost of the Serra Azul Dam (financed by Loan 1309-BR)
because it is a basic element in the water supply production in this project.
The calculations use a shadow exchange rate of 1.3 for the foreign exchange
costs to represent its opportunity cost. Returns for the project have been
derived for COPASA's investment in water supply and sewerage combined for the
overall project. A similar process was used for metropolitan Belo Horizonte
area since 69% of the project investment (about US$310 million at mid-1979 prices)
is related to the metropolitan area. The total state approach is appropriate
since the state applies a uniform tariff structure to all municipal systems.
Thus tariffs cannot be tailored to suit individual investment and cost condi-
tions. The rates of return are based on tariff levels to be achieved during
the project execution period and are significantly above present tariffs
(para. 7.11). Water supply rates of return are based only on the water
supply tariff component. The IRR calculations are given in Annex 12 and the
results are presented in the following table.
Table 8.1: INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Metropolitan
Description             Belo Horizonte Area    Total Project
Water supply                            12%                  7%
Water supply and sewerage               14%                  8%
8.03      The IRR on the water supply investments for the total state project
and the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area are considered acceptable, and in-
dicate that average water tariffs will generally be close to long-run average



- 41 -
incremental costs discounted at an estimated opportunity cost of capital of 11%.
Tariffs on incremental water consumption (above the basic 1Om3/month block of
consumption will be equal or exceed the long-run average incremental cost of
water for the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area in 1982 and the total state
project in 1985. Combined returns reflect the existing tariff structure where
the charge for sewerage is 70% of the water charge. The percentage will be
modified to a more cost-related tariff in 1982, and will likely improve returns
on the project overall. The higher rates in the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area
are a result of the higher average consumption due to industrial water consump-
tion are the result of higher average tariffs and also reflect the results of
lesser unit (m3) operating costs in the metropolitan area than in isolated
community systems, particularly in the small community systems. Rate of
return based on revenues, understate the real economic return as they exclude
important benefits which are not meaningfully quantifiable. Improvements in
public health, in particular lower infant mortality, increased labor produc-
tivity, environmental improvements from increased sewage collection, infra-
structure for economic development, and improved service to existing consumers
are not reflected in tariffs, and provide evidence that the project's economic
and social benefits may well exceed its financial benefits. Finally, the
project does not take into consideration the ability of CEMIG to increase the
stand-by energy production from the present 3MW to 8MW as a result of the
project (para. 6.06). These considerations confirm the conclusion that the
project is economically justified.
8.04      The principal adverse factors which could affect the expected rates
of return are an increase in construction costs, a reduction in sales growth
below the levels forecast and a possible short-term restriction of tariffs as
part of an overall government inflation control program. Given the status of
project engineering, where substantially all of the metropolitan Belo Horizonte
area is in final design, all other subprojects have completed feasibility studies
(paras. 6.07 and 6.08) and cost estimates are considered appropriate, it is
unlikely that actual costs of the total project and of the metropolitan Belo
Horizonte area component in particular would exceed the forecast by more than
10%. There is little likelihood that demand will be restricted by increases
in real tariffs since the monthly billing for the lowest consumer level
(10m3/month) represents 1.7% of one monthly minimum salary 1/ for water and
2.9% for water supply and sewerage combined. These levels are less than 50% of
the tariff permitted by the National Tariff Law (paras. 2.13 and 2.14).
Charges for consumption at increasingly higher levels are still at values which
represent a small part of family income, and the proposed increases are un-
likely to have any significant effect on per capita consumption. In addition,
there is no restriction on connections to COPASA's systems because the company
does not charge for minimum-size domestic water supply or sewerage connections
(para. 7.11) 2/. Finally, with respect to demand in the metropolitan Belo
1/   Cr$2,997 on November 1, 1979 or US$94.
2/   Prior to 1977 connection charges of about one-half of one monthly minimum
salary (MMS) was charged for water supply connections and one MMS for a
sewerage connection.



- 42 -
Horizonte area, the project will provide the capacity needed to avoid ration-
ing and for COPASA to supply the expanding industrial and population demand.
In the unlikely event that costs were to increase by 10% and simultaneously
consumption or tariffs were to be 15% below the level forecast, the combined
rate of return for the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area would be reduced
from 14% to 10% and the combined rate of return for the total project would
be reduced from 8% to 4%.
Design and Selection Criteria
8.05      Project design and selection criteria (paras. 6.07 and 6.15) are
consistent with PLANASA objectives and in accordance with Bank requirements.
The criteria also meet the objectives of providing a significant proportion of
the low-income population with access to safe water and basic sanitation at an
affordable tariff, while ensuring the basis for COPASA's financial viability
through cross-subsidization. Each subproject represents the least-cost
alternative selected in conformity with appropriate methodology and satis-
factory design standards of BNH and COPASA.
Population Served
8.06      It is estimated that by 1984 an additional 1.0 million people in the
metropolitan Belo Horizonte area will benefit from water supply extension as well
as 1.8 million existing consumers and industrial and commercial users will be
assured of a continuous and safe potable water supply. A total of 1.9 million
additional people throughout the state will benefit from the project's water
supply components. The project will increase the overall water supply service
level in the communities served by COPASA from the present level of 73% to 80%
(called for in the PLANASA program) in 1984. At the state level, it is esti-
mated that it will take about two years more beyond project estimated comple-
tion date of 1984 to reach 80% of the population served in 80% of the
communities in the state. 1/ Sewerage services will be expanded from the
present 27% to 36% of the population, or an additional 1.4 million served by
1984. The impact of the project will continue increasing as complementary
works are completed through 1990.
Impact on The Urban Poverty Group-Metropolitan Belo Horizonte Area 2/
8.07      The calculation of the direct impact of the project on the urban
poverty group defined as families earning a monetary income of three regional
minimum salaries 3/ or less per month (Cr$8,991 in November 1979 or US$283),
1/   There are 722 communities in the state of Minas Gerais; 577 communities
would be 80%; COPASA will serve about 480 in 1984.
2/   A fully documented report on this subject is in the project file.
3/   On an annual basis, the three minimum salary threshold corresponds
approximately to 1/3 of the national per capita income.



- 43 -
was based on a social survey made by PLAMBEL in 1976. The survey divided
the area into 22 zones and distributed infrastructure services to the population
in salary ranges.  The data was extended to 1984 by estimating the incremental
urban poor in the total incremental population to be served. In water supply
this rate is 40%, increasing the urban poor served from 35% (267,000) to 58%
(647,000) by 1984. The rate for sewerage is 28%, increasing the urban poor
served from 9% (66,000) to 33% (370,000) by 1984. Investment allocated to urban
poor consumers is around US$52.0 million for water supply (23% of the metropolitan
water supply investment plan) and around US$18.0 for sewerage (21% of the metro-
politan sewerage investment plan). 1/ COPASA will utilize the results of the
studies being conducted by BNH under the Northeast States Loan (1656-BR) to
provide low-cost solutions to service the remaining poor areas as well as the
slum-upgrading type projects sponsored by the Secretary of Planning for the state
of Minas Gerais. Details of the target population served are in Table 8.2.
Table 8.2: WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE POPULATION AND INCREMENTAL SERVED
IN THE METROPOLITAN BELO HORIZONTE AREA
(thousands of inhabitants and percentages)
1979                         1984                Incremental
Urban Poor      Total       Urban Poor       Total       Urban Poor  Total
Total        759 (32%)   2,390 (100%)  1,121 (32%)  3,470 (100%)  362 (34%)   1,080 (100%)
Served
with Water 267 (35%)   1,770 (74%)        647 (58%)  2,720 (78%)   380 (40%)        950 (100%)
Served with
Sewerage    66 (9%)        797 (33%)      370 (33%)  1,896 (55%)   304 (28%)   1,099 (100%)
Affordability of Project Services to the Urban Poor
8.08      Brazilian tariff regulations specify that the maximum charge levied
for the minimum monthly water consumption (l0m3/month per connection is
suggested in the law and used by COPASA) cannot exceed 35% of one ORTN, or about
Cr$140 (US$4.40) in August 1979. The regulations also specify that the maximum
combined charge for water and sewerage for minimum consumption should not exceed
50% of one ORTN or about Cr$200 (US$6.28) in August 1979. The existing monthly
charges of Cr$52 (US$1.67) for water supply and Cr$88 (US$2.85) for water supply
and sewerage represent 37% and 41% respectively of the maximum permissible charges
and represent 1.7% and 2.9% of one regional minimum salary. These changes are
considered affordable even for the poorest segment of the population. Between
1980 and 1984 COPASA will be increasing tariffs in real terms (para. 7.15), and
will consider increasing minimum billing quantities to 12 m3/month (para. 7.12).
1/   The urban poor component of the Bank loan would be around US$22 million.



- 44 -
Such action would raise minimum billing for water supply to 50% of that per-
mitted by law and water supply and sewerage combined to 57% of the maximum.
Since COPASA does not charge for minimum diameter residential connections,
water supply and sewerage are affordable by the urban poor.
Project Risks.
8.09      COPASA's compliance with the required tariff increases in real terms
(para. 7.19) is essential to attain and maintain financial viability. Failure
to comply would jeopardize that position. This risk has been reduced by
tariff legistation and the close monitoring by BNH and the Bank (para. 7.15).
The proposed project also involves the administrative risks associated with
the carrying out of complex and large investment programs by COPASA, as well
as the physical risks associated with the construction of major dams. An
expert reviewed all aspects of the Serra Azul Dam during appraisal and his
report 1/ concludes that minimal risks are involved. A similar precaution will
be taken by the Bank for the Rio das Velhas Dam during design and construction
stages (para. 6.06). Not all of the project components are firmly identified,
nor would all of them be subject to prior appraisal by Bank staff. However,
COPASA's project execution experience indicates that it has the capacity to
implement the project and that there are no financial constraints. The sub-
project preparation and eligibility criteria developed should ensure the
soundness of the investments undertaken.
IX. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During loan negotiations, agreements were reached as follows:
(a) from the Federal Government that it will:
(i) assist the State of Minas Gerais, in the economic evaluation
between the cost of mining pollution control schemes and the
additional water treatment costs due to mining waste pollution
in the Rio das Velhas and Paraopeba Rivers; and give full
support to carrying out the recommendations agreed to by the
Bank and BNH (para. 6.21); and
(ii) support and assist COPASA in meeting the revenue covenant
(para. 7.15).
1/   The full report entitled Evaluation of the Design of the Serra Azul
Dam by R. Cajiao, Consultant, is in the Project File.



- 45 -
(b)  with the Government of the State of Minas Gerais that it will:
(i) carry out an economic study to be completed no later than
June 30, 1981, to determine the appropriate cost to COPASA
and CEMIG of the transfer of the existing hydroelectric plant
and transmission facilities on the Rio das Velhas River
(para. 6.06);
(ii)  support COPASA in carrying out the recommendations from the
study of the catchment area of the Serra Azul Reservoir
(para. 6.17);
(iii) not later than October 31, 1980, with the direct assistance of
the Federal Government, prepare terms of reference, satis-
factory to BNH and the Bank, for an economic evaluation between
the cost of mining pollution control schemes and the additional
water treatment costs due to mining waste pollution in the Rio
das Velhas and Paraopeba RLvers; not later than December 31, 1981,
make available such study to the Borrower and the Bank for review
and comment. The recommendations contained in such study, as
agreed to with the Federal Government, the Bank and BNH, should
be implemented thereafter by the State with the full support of
the Federal Government (para. 6.21); and,
(iv)  support and assist COPASA in meeting the revenue covenant
(para. 7.15), and will provide any funds required to ensure
timely completion of the project.
(c)  with BNH that it will:
ti) provide COPASA with the results of its low-cost sanitation
studies and its proposals for applying the techniques
(para. 5.08);
(ii)  subprojects will be selected using the project selection
criteria (para. 6.15 and Annex 5);
(iii) through a panel of experts, acceptable to the Bank, review the
engineering studies and design concepts of the dam before
construction, as well as supervise its construction and
make sure that suitable maintenance and inspection programs
for dam operation are established (para. 6.06);
(iv)  not be reimbursed for expenditures after December 31, 1981 unless
COPASA's tariffs have been increased in real terms in 1981
(para. 6.23);
(v) submit to the Bank audited financial statements and the report
of the external auditor within four months after the close of
the fiscal year (para. 7.06);
(vi)   support and assist COPASA in meeting the revenue covenant
(para. 7.15); and



- 46 -
(vii) take responsibility for preparation and submission to the Bank
of the project completion report on the project within six
months of loan closing (para. 7.21, c).
(d)  with COPASA that it will:
(i) submit its annual EVG to the Bank, through BNH for review
and comment (para. 4.09); and incorporate in the EVG statements
of income, cash flow, balance sheets and the calculation of the
rate base, (para. 7.21);
(ii) have its accounts and financial statements audited each year by
external auditors satisfactory to the Bank; will submit to the
Bank copies of the audited financial statements and the report
of the external auditor within four months of the close of the
fiscal year; and have the independent auditor include a statement
on compliance with loan covenants (para. 4.10);
(iii) maintain insurance coverage acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.12);
(iv) through a panel of experts, acceptable to the Bank, review
the engineering studies and design concepts of the dam before
construction, as well as supervise its construction and make
sure that suitable maintenance and inspection programs for
dam operation are established (para. 6.06);
(v) subproject will be selected using the project selection
criteria agreed upon (para. 6.15 and Annex 5);
(vi) prepare terms of reference to study the watershed
area of the Serra Azul Reservoir which are satisfactory
to BNH and the Bank no later than January 31, 1981, and that
the results of the study will be implemented with the full
support of the State Government (para. 6.17);
(vii) update annually the general procurement notice for the
project (para. 6.22);
(viii) prepare, with BNH, a proposal for sewerage tariff adjustments,
and submit this proposal to the Bank for comment by September 30,
1981; subsequently, submit the proposal to the appropriate tariff
approval authorities by December 31, 1981 (para. 7.13);
(ix) undertake whatever measures are required to ensure that revenues
will be maintained at levels sufficient to comply with the pro-
visions of the National Tariff Law and Regulations; that the
revenue covenants in Loans 1009-BR and 1309-BR will be super-
seded by the new revenue covenant (para. 7.15);



- 47 -
(x) complete its study of administrative costs by September 30,
1980, submit the study to BNH and the Bank for comment, and
implement the study program on January 1, 1981 (para. 7.17);
(xi) establish an unaccounted-for water program (para. 7.18);
(xii) modify the existing quarterly project progress reports not
later than September 30, 1980, to include a system of monitoring
indicators and submit the first such report for the first
quarter of 1981 (para. 7.21); and
(xiii) submit to BNH not later than four months after loan
closing a report satisfactory to the Bank on the
execution and initial operation of the project
(para. 7.21, c).
9.02      Provided the above conditions are met, the project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$139.0 million. The loan would be for a period of 15
years, including a grace period of three years.



BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO (BNH) - NATIONAL HOUSING BANK
Organization Chart
December 1979
C-n.,~~ ~ ~ I                                                                                     D   rio  
f    Adminisirative    }     l                                                      |          Botrd~~~~~~Arni,trsiueSerear
|enra                                             rsdn'                     Cooroarirr s cDretar
................................................
Supe-vsng.        _                       Supervising     _      _        Super-ismn                   Supervising     _             Supervising     _            Supervising
Ws~~~~~~~~~~Codnatio                                            C0    I                                                                                                I                                                        I     ;  -- 
a.dnn eerc.                          Employee G--,ssn                      Habtto                                                  Co-pl 1riL tar
pi--iVl                 P o                                   Oeaon                                                          Pr  tun                       Pogrolamsfi-
Prg- cC."".                               O ipond n-                        Programs                                                                              Mer-marog
I                             I                                                                                                                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~1
E                  0                                                     2n -               h                 E         re         C 
Cu      DAl      DAD      DCD)      DE       OFC      D112     DRH                  APC      APC)      CPO           j SF           F        F       FRITS   I      CPC      Cl-D              COS      CESH             COP       CODU CA                     AETj 
Ofliner--                                       ----                     --L   ----                           ---- -A-  I   -  -.-.--0
"t                                                                                                                                                                              World Bank   21603      u



BRAZIL
' THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS, S.A. (COPASA)
OTganIzation Chart
Sharfholderm
IPrincipully the Set.s of
Mines Qarel)
Bfcdof Directrs
D},m.r  _i l  Di,s t tor              _             n      Ditor                                                         Diectl
ReeaR_h &                                                                                                                              Dir;ctPoe F                                                                                    rrrt
Reoprchnt &Adninstration                                                                       Co|tr ctio Desin                                               Otetationsercd
i|duntdolnt"   Reions                                  fimetretonm  |    S tidntt tlndnt  e                                       nt                    Spntdent   |n|nS.perintitdnnt                | Superintndent    |           Supeinteedant
OrniRetion                 Trnsprt               MateIril Cant|         Metropolitan Projects    |   | Interior Projects  |     | Mainsenrcctre     Intorior Operations    Metropolitan Operations    Fieee  & Accoantna  Co-tnrsteca
|   1 District  |                                        
a e Regionul                                                                                     jroet
0'
Woeld Bank - 21013



- 50 -
AN;NEX 2
B R A Z I L
THIRD MINAS GERAIS W4ATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Metropolitan Belo Horizonte Projected Water Deniand and Supply
r  |  TOTAL        POPULATIONE|             WATER DEMAND m /s                        W tATER SOt'RC-S AN;D E'RODUCTION r. /s(2 
YEAR     POPULATION                                                                            Rio das  [Vre              er        i  
(millions)   %       (millions)    Domestic  Indtistrial ITOTAL   Various   Velhas   |I/Flores    Azul                   Manso   TOTAL|
1978        2.27        68       1.55           3.68         0.80         4.48         1.22       3.79      I .01         _                   6.02
1979        2.39        74       1.77           4.26         0.87          5.13        1.27       4.50      1.12          _                   6.89
1980        2.53        75       1.89           4.51         1.06         5.5i         1.27      4.64(3)  1,58(4)         _                   7.49
1981        2.78        75       2.08           4.93         1.29          8.3f        1.27       5.51      1.58          _                   8 .3b
1982        3.01        76       2.28           5.87         1.48          7.35        1.27       5.71      1.58    a)1.32(5)         _       9.88
1983        3.25        76       2.47           6.49         1.51          7.99        1.27       6.04      1.58       1.86           _      10.75
194   3.47        78       2.72           7..          15           8.66        1.40 (b) 6.08         1.58       2.58           _      11.64
1985        3.69        81       2.98           7.90         1.58         9.47         1.40       7.i8(6)  1.58        2.58           _      12?.,4
1986        3.91        83       3.24           8.85         1.61        10.46         1.40       7.45      1.58       2.58      ).5(    1.'
1987        4.13        85       3.51           9.70         1.65        111.36       1.40       7.11       1.58       2.58       2.16       15.26
IJ988       4.34        87        3.77         10.60         1.68        112.28        1.40       7.74       1.58       2.58       3.21      16.51
1989        4.55        87       3.98         l1.:13         1.72        l3.05        1.40        7.9       1.58       2.58   14.08          17.5.
[1990       4.76        88        4.18         12.09(i)      1.76       1'13.85        1-40       8.15       1.58       2.58       4.12      17.63
11991       4.97        1 88      4.38         12.67          1.81       1l4. ".       1.40 1()9.0C(9    1.58           2.58       4.12       18.6ti
|1992  |    5.15       |89        4.57         13.22         1.85       t15.071        1.40 |     9.00     1.58   |2.58   |e)4-&5(8)|  19.41
1993  |     5.33        89       4.76       |13.77           1.90       |15.671       1.40|      q.00   |1.58   |2.58             5).62   |20.1b
11994     5.511   90              4.94         i 4.29        1.94       116.23         1.401      9.(9()     1.58    2.58   6.34   20.90
11995       5.67        90        5.12         I 14.81       1.99        116.80        1.40       9.Q0     1.58         2.58       7.08      2i.64
'1996       5.84        90        5.28         15.27          2.04       117.31        1.40       9.00       1.58       2.58       7.73       22.2t
|1997       5.99         91       5.45         15.77          2.09       ! 17.86       1.Z10      Q .nn     1.58        2-58       8.44   i23.0Q
1998        6.14        91       5.60        1 6.20      1  2.15         118.35       1.40       9.00       1.58       2.58       9.07       23.t3
1999       6.29        91   | 5.75            16.64         2.20       |18.84         1.401      9.00     1.58         2.58   119.70        24.2r-
~2000       6.43        91        5.88      1                 270      .2-5  I19.20    2 .4c      9. (1 )    ].58       2.58   1 0.24        24.80
.NOTES:
i nformation: Flan6 Diretor de Abastecimento de Agua da AMBEI - COPASA/MG.
M etropolitan Belo Horizonte comprises the following runicila':;tses: Belo YHurizonte, Betiim., Contagern,
Nova Lir.a, Sabara, Santa Luzia, Ribeirao das Neves e lbirite.
-Total pcpulation accordlinL tco projections rmade by the Belco horizonte Planning Office P'LA11BEL (1975).
(1) Per capita consum.ption projected to stabilize at 250 liters per day by i99C.
(2) Production estim,ates assur.e: (i) reduction of unz-lcccuiited for Wdter to 2C.~ by 1984; and (ii) 1.12 fe, mna,illn-L..
daily consumptior..  Fror. 1990 onlwaVXs tinaccounted ter v.ater is projected to he reduced to 15%.
(3) Totai treatr.ent capacity =6.C,O Di Is
(4) Total treatment capacity =1.58 m3I/s
(5) .,ctal treatment capacitv     2.58 m /s
(6) Total treatment capacity     8.15 m /s
(7) Total treatmeiit capacity =4.16 m 3/s
(8) Totaltreatmen  capacaty= 10.24  3/
(9) Total treatment capacity =  9.24 m /s
a) Serra Azul damn completed.  Safe miinimumn vield, 3.9 m 3/s.  
b) Rio das Velhas first diam completed.  Safe m.inim.um yield 8.5 ri, /S.
c) Fio i.anso first darr conipleted.  Safe minirrur. yield. 6.5 m.l/s.   3
d) Rio das Velhias second dam completed. Safe minimum yield 14.5 r Is.
e) Rio Mianso second dam completed. Safe minimur- yield 12.5 rm-/s.



THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Construction Schedule
Description                     1980            1981                1982                1983                1984
Metropolitan Belo Horizonte
Water Supply
Rio das Velhas Source
Dam and Reservoir
Treatment Plant
Pumping Station
Transmission Line
Serra Azul Source
Treatment Plant            _-__._._
Pumping Stations      _                                  ______.__
Transmission Lines        _      .
Water Reservoir           _
Distribution System
Distribution Network        _ _  _    _.
House Connection _
Water Reservoir           _     _-   
Metering
Sewerage
Arrudas Interceptor       _      ..
Ressaca Interceptor        _.m
Oxidation Pond             _ _     .     .         . 
Sewage Collectors         _                     _ -  _  _   _    ______                     __
House Connections          _                        _ _ _ _                                   . ___
Water-Medium-Size  Cities    . .    __   __
Sewerage-Medium-Size  Cities -__          ____________    __                     _ _ _ _
Water-Small Communities        __ _ _ _- _-- _ _ _
- - - - -  Design and revisions
- -. -. - - Bidding
Construction



BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Timetable for Preparation of Studies
Study                  Responsibility       Terms of Reference   Completion Date   Implementation of Results
1. Economic study on Mining         Minas Gerais state  October 31, 1980        December 31, 1981  After federal and state
Waste Pollution Control          government with                                                 governments, BNH, COPASA and
(para. 6.21)                     assistance of                                                   Bank agreement on results
Loan Agreement-Section 6.03    federal government
2. Economic study to determine    Minas Gerais state  No date necessary    June 30, 1981            After state government, BNH,
appropriate cost to COPASA       government                                                      COPASA, and Bank agreement
and CEMIG of existing hydro-                                                                     on results
electric plant and other
facilities on the Rio das
Velhas River (para. 6.06)
Loan Agreement-Section 6.04
3. Study for protection of the    COPASA                 January 31, 1981      No date              After COPASA, BNH and Bank  r
Serra Azul catchment area                                                     established.       agreement on results
(para. 6.17)
Loan Agreement-Section 3.09
4. Administrative cost study        COPASA               No date necessary    September 30, 1980 January 1, 1981
(para. 7.17)
Loan Agreement-Section 3.10
0



_ 53- _AN,_X 4
BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Description                                 1980    1981    1982    1983    1984   Total           1980   '981   1982   1983   1984    Total
(millions of UPCs)                                   (millions of U1S$)
Metropolitan Belo Horizonte
Water Supply
Rio das Velhas Source
Dam and Reservoir                       0.04    0.10    0.63    0.70    0.49    1.95           0.5    1.4    8.8    9.6    6.8    27.0
Treatment Plant                         0.01    0.00    0.02    0.14    0.16    0.33           0.1    0.1    0.2    1.9    2.2        4.5
Pumping Station                         0.00    0.00    0.02    0.07    0.08    0.16           0.0    0.0    0.2    0.9    1.0        2.2
Transmission Line                       0.01    0.00    0.01    0.07    0.08    0.16           0.0    0.0    0.2    0.9    1.0        2.2
Serra Azul Source
Treatment Plant                         0.26    0.29                                0.55       3.6    4.1                             7.7
Pumping Stations                        0.22    0.34    0.10                        0.64       2.9    4.6    1.4                      8.9
Transmission Lines                      0.63    1.18    1.10                        2.93       8.8   16.3   15.3                     40.4
Water Reservoir                         0.03    0.49    0.38                        0.89       0.4    6.7    5.3                     12.3
Distribution System
Distribution Network                   0.06    0.33    0.46    0.55    0.37    1.80            0.8    4.6    6.5    7.8    5.2    24.9
House Connection                        0.05    0.11    0.15    0.17    0.12    0.60           0.7    1.6    1.9    2.4    1.7        8.3
Water Reservoir                                 0.00    0.05    0.11    0.06    0.22                  0.1    0.7    1.4    0.8        2.9
Metering                                0.05    0.11    0.10    0.11    0.08    0.45           0.7    1.6    1.4    1.5    1.1        6.2
S,werage
Arrudas Interceptor                    0.05    0.16    0.23    0.05                 0.46       0.7    2.2    3.1    0.6               6.5
Ressaca Interceptor                             0.16    0.37    0.23               0.76               2.2    5.2    3.2              10.5
Oxidation Pond                         0.01    0.01                                0.01       0.0    0.3                              0.3
Sewage Collectors                      0.01    0.69    0.67    0.37    0.37    2.14           0.3    9.5    9.3    5.1    5.1    29.2
House Connections                      0.01    0.23    0.22    0.14    0.14    0.72           0.3    3.1    2.9    1.9    1.9    10.1
Water Medium Sized Cities                   0.17    1.22    0.34    0.36    0.39    2.49           2.4   16.9    4.8    4.9    5.4    34.4
Sewerage Medium Sized Cities                0.10    0.80    0.60    0.46    0.43    2.39           1.4   11.1    8.3    6.3    6.0    33.0
Water Small Communities                     0.28    0.46    0.46    0.46    0.46    2.13           3.8    6.3    6.3    6.5    6.5    29.4
Studies and Improvements                    0.17    0.25    0.10    0.14    0.05    0.70           2.4    3.4    1.5    1.8    0.7         9.7
Total Construction                     2.14    6.94    6.02    4.11    3.28   22.50          29.5   95.9   83.2   56.7   45.4   310.6
Engineering and Tech. Serv. (10%)        0.22    0.69    0.61    0.41    0.33    2.24            2.9    9.5    8.4    5.7    4.5    31.0
Base Cost                              2.35    7.63    6.63    4.52    3.61   24.74          32.5  105.4   91.6   62.4   49.9   341.7
Physical Contingencies (10.1)            0.24    0.76    0.66    0.45    0.36    2.47            3.3   10.5    9.1    6.2    5.0    34.1
Subtotal                               2.59    8.39    7.29    4.97    3.97   27.21          35.8  115.9  100.6   68.6   54.9   375.7
Price Escalation (77X)                   0.09    0.91    1.35    1.32    1.41    5.09            1.2   12.4   18.7   18.3   19.6    70.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     2.68    9.29    8.63    6.29    5.39   32.30          37.0  126.3  119.3   86.9   74.5   446.0
NOTES:  (1)  1 UPC = US$ 13.81;  1 US$ = Cr$ 31.01 as of November 1979.
(2)  Base Cost at November 1979 price level.
(3)  Engineering and Technical Services represents 10% of construction costs,
which is an average cost extracted from COPASA's past experience.
(4)  Physical Contingencies average 10% for the same reasons as in 3 above.
(i) Due to rounding to two and one decimal the totals last digits might
differ slightly from the sum of columns.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Subproject Selection Criteria
l.        For each subproject:
(a) it must be included in the last EVG of COPASA approved by
BNH and accepted by the Bank;
(b) total subproject cost will not be substantially higher than
that included in the above-mentioned EVG. If the subproject
scope or costs are substantially different from those contem-
plated in the EVG, satisfactory evidence must be presented
to the Borrower and the Bank that such inclusion and financing
will not deteriorate COPASA's financial position;
(c) when preparing feasibility studies (including relatorios and
projetos tecnicos) for subprojects, COPASA will follow the
Borrower's feasibility study preparation and design guidelines in
effect as of November 1, 1978, as the same may be amended from time
to time. The relatorio and the projeto tecnico for each subproject
will include construction schedule, cost estimates, investment
schedule, and cost and revenue projections prepared in accordance
with methods satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower;
(d) the design will be in conformity with sound engineering
practices; and
(e) subprojects must be the least-cost solution and selected in
accordance with generally accepted economic analysis techniques.
2.        In addition to the above, for each water supply or water supply
and sewerage subproject to be carried out in a medium-size or large city, the
internal financial rate of return should be at least equal to the average cost
of capital of COPASA and provided that it does not substantially deteriorate
the financial position of COPASA as established in the EVG; if not, the
subproject will be eligible for financing under the loan only if the social
and economic justification provided for in the report as mentioned in l(c) is
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
3.        For each subproject, which consists only of sewerage works in
addition to fulfilling the criteria referred to in (1) above, the Borrower
and the Bank will be furnished with economic and sound justification, satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank for carrying out of such subproject.



-55-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
4.        For purposes of paragraph 2 above, "internal financial rate of
return" means the discount rate calculated by equalizing the value of incremental
revenues estimated to be generated by the subproject during the life of such
subproject, and the value of capital invested in, plus the value of incremental
operating, maintenance and administrative costs of such subproject, both in
the same period referred to above; such incremental revenues and costs to be
projected in constant prices and in accordance with methods satisfactory to
the Bank and the Borrower.
5.        For each subproject which will be carried out in a small community, 1/
in addition to the criteria referred to in No. 1 above:
(a) the construction costs of such subproject divided by
the number of inhabitants to be served by such subproject
will be less than the equivalent of US$180;
(b) such subproject will be in conformity with the Borrower's
standard technical designs for small communities;
(c) if the cost referred to in (a) above exceeds US$180, the
subproject will be redesigned in accordance with lower
acceptable standards or staged in such a way to fulfill
such criterion; and
(d) if after the above-mentioned redesign the subproject does
not fulfill the above-mentioned criteria, the Borrower and
the Bank should be provided with satisfactory social and
economic justification for the carrying out of such sub-
project.
1/   A community with less than 5,000 inhabitants.



-56-                         ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(In Millions of US*)
Fiscal Year                    Disbursement in         Cumulative at end
and Quarter                      the Quarter                of Quarter
1980 - 81
September 30, 1980
December 31, 1980
March 31, 1981                      4.4                        4.4
June 30, 1981                      6.8                       11.2
1981 - 82
September 30, 1981                 6.8                       18.0
December 31, 1981                 10.2                       28.2
March 31, 1982                     11.2                      39.4
June 30, 1982                     10.7                       50.1
1982 - 83
September 30, 1982                 6.3                       56.4
December 31, 1982                  9.5                       65.9
March 31, 1983                    10.3                       76.2
June 30, 1983                     10.0                       86.2
1983 - 1984
September 30, 1983                 4.6                       90.8
December 31, 1983                   7.1                      97.9
March 31, 1984                     8.1                      106.0
June 30, 1984                      6.5                      112.5
1984 - 85
September 30, 1984                  7.0                     119.5
December 31, 1984                   8.0                     127.5
March 31, 1985                      7.0                      134.5
June 30, 1985                       4.5                     139.0



- 57 -
ANNEX T
L7.7 L                                                   Page 1 of 2
=uIf  NIlIAS   fAIS WATER SUPPLY  MID  SZWUGE P9.0.C?
I'::'O, NACITo:.EI. "A 1L',! ITAC,%O
B.iX. I. SHIf ETS
I Lb . Mill   nI)
AUDITED
Year Ending Dece.ber 31                                  1971        1972         1973         197.         1975         1976        1977        1978
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and banks                                        4.4          9.6         6.6          8.2          9.6          6.4        23.2          51.6
Treasury bonds                                       73.3         56.7        56.3         92.6        121.9         36.3       32.5          190.1
Receivable fron loans U                                --       160.0        195.0        418.0        420.8        284.4      975.1       1,171.4
Other accounCs                                        5.7          1.1         0.9          0.9          1.2          2.1        36.5          Z7.7
S.b-total                                       83.4        227.4      325f.8        519.7        5            3.9.Z   i,A67 3
Long-tems Receivables
Loans                                            1,545.3      2,144.2      3,131.7    4,176.5        5,461.4      7,246.1    3,655.9    10,747.2
Treasury boud4                                      203.8       528.1        761.1      1,062.3      1,120.0      1,04d.8      970.7       1,099.2
Mortg5ges                                           249.8          7.3         0.8          0.4           --           --          . 
Other investments                                    15.2         18.8        40.3        113.1         49.4         40.4       156.3        143.7
Colleting agents - ISNPS                              7.7          2.8         2.3          0.9           --           --
Property  for resale                                  5.0         10.3        12.9         16.3         70.5         15.1         8.3          5.4
flo-sing Icnss in  liquidation                         *-           _           __           ._        287.9        365.4      286.7         221.6
Other accounts                                        1.6          3.9         6.1          8.3          8.4          9.0         7.5
Sub-total                                   2,0284       2.715.4      3,955.2      5,37ff.3     6.9.77.0     S0,754.9  l .4 )85
Fixed Ascets
Land end buildings                                   14.0         19.0        22.9         25.3         39.1         40.5        43.2         46.8
Equlp cnt and installations                           1.S          2.1         2.8          3.2          3.5          4.0         4.6          5.6
Othe  fixs-I assets                                   o.8          1.2         1.6           1.9         2.2          2.7         3.2          3.4
Sub-total                                       16.6         22.3        27.3         30.4         44.8         47.2         i.0          S f.8
ACLUurlalted deprecia3tion                           (1.4)        (2.2)       (3.5)        ( )          (7.9)         .13       (OS          (lV
Sob-total                                       15.2         20.1         23.9        !..O         df.9    ~ J.l            40.5         42.5
OtIter Axset,
!ncerest 4 t_notary ,'drrectlon an
Io,,t  t(eIrnhlties  in liquLdation                 ..           -_           __           _.        34.8        197.0       370.9        527.6
Prr7,ld  Insurance                                    0.1         0.6          0.1           --           --                       -
Material  In t:xnstt                                  0.1          0.8         0.2   .      0.1           ._           .             -        _
interest Ret. on Treasury bdnds                                     -_          --          0.5          0.4          0.9         t.7          1.3
Svb-t   ASSET                                  0.2          1.4         3).3          0.5(       3'X.Z         1! t.S    37?.6          K.e 
Tt(TAI. ASSETS                           2,127.2     2,964.3    4.38.2         5. 924. 6 7 ,    7t,.7   - 9 ;.             .          I235.(1
LIAbILITIES
'urrent t.Liabilities
Entitles of the National 1ouuing
Syst m  (deposlta)                                26.1         64.5         45.0        111.7       324.7        634.4       823.1     1,194.4
Sundry creditors                                      3.3         9.2         16.2         19.2         29.5         41.9      173.9        202.2
Sub-total                                       29.4         73.7        61.2        130.9        354.2        676.3       997.0
Long-term Debt
F.plzyees' Indentety Fund                        1,741.5      2,379.5    3,373.3       4,424.7      5,337.7      6,400.3    8,021.7    9,855.3
B,ttt 9ousi,g bonds                                  31.2       .35.4         36.3         37.3         36.2         34.2       34.2         35.0
ForeI4n Loans:
ID8 (IDB/i13Yl 104;SF-Ek)                         18.9         71.0         25.4         30.7         37.9        48.4        52.1        49.2
AID                                               10.2         15.8         19.4         29.8        40.6         40.6        40.5         4C.4
IBRD                                                                                                  0.9         12.5        27.8        33.6
Mtscellaneous                                      00, 03                     __                    148.S        166.9       169.4       214.4
Sub-total                                   1.SO2,0    2,452.v        3,454.4    4523.0         5,60z.1      ";02.9   9,3.4.7
Other Liabill-Ies
Unallocated collections and repayments               12.0        16.0         14.3          4.7          8.8         30.3       26.3         30.0
Deferred incee                                        ._        13.3         11.9          8.9          9.3         10.6         7.9         6.2
ERp. Ind. Fund - to confita                            --           --          --           -_        215.6        189.7      196.9       201.7
Other unidenttfied receipts                            --           --           --          -_         34.8       1IR.2       346.9       495.4
Sub-total                                       12.0         29.3        26.2         13.6        268.5        416.3       578.5       7
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                            177.5        160.9        321.5       442.1      1,068.1      1,392.1    L,441.4    2,090.2
geserves                                           106.3        24.4         374.9        915.0        '9t.7        103.1        3.2      (219.0) 2/
Sub-total                                    2:23.8       439.3        6b.4       1,'.    I            5  9            1,4...      1 91.2
T07IAL LIA8ILITOFS                       1 7'  2 ,39643           -233.2    5.)24.b    7 ,54 .          9      2.7      . 17 7t1 ,,
I/  Duri-c  1971 *hrough 1974. In  cons,dered all IteD.  av,r 100 day. as  Iong-tcrn. . In 1975, B Rl cha.e4,i to 363 days or
morc a tc!.  loot,-crn crlccccon.   flats sI.. Vlt   for 1472 bttroc,v!, 1974 was e-at'..tod t- 3:.!1 uditors.
I Net of F..r..n .scI,:n          ,  utr. nt.  In          cr,,-irn h.,-c  r-rv,.               I  to   7     . 1f D" I in z..ptt.nI.



ERA ZIL
THIRD HINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWRAGE PROJECT
BANCO KACIl,NAL-rTA  mItJCio
INCOME AND CASH FLOW STATENENTS
(USS  .illion) 1/
YeAr EndtnR December 31.                    197t1         1972        1973         1974           1975           1976          1977           1978             1979          1980          1981
- ---------------------------- Auditted ------ =~~~~~~ ------ ------- 7-------                               ---------- Csttmted 2t________--
REVLNtIES FROM OPERATIONS
Loan Incomee                              120.3        120.4        173.8       245.8          362.7          437.4          529.8          658.7           840.0         1,048.5       1,243.5
Service incomne                            36.8         47.5         65.2         83.0         111.1          140.3          167.2          209.0           204.0           241.3         282.0
Other Inc..e                                5.9         60.3        102.1        105.1           85.8          89.5          104.3           88.0           193.5           259.5         325.5
Total                                 163.0         228.2        433.9       559.6          667.2          801.3          801.3          955.7        1,237.5        1TW49.         1,851.0
OPERATING EXPENSES
Adalnlatrative expenses                    14.5          17.6        24.5         36.2           43.9          55.7           76.7           88.7           157.5           202.5         243.0
Financtal expenses                         83.5        115.3        159.0        196.7         213.4          336.5          494.1          617.0           691.5           843.0         981.0
Other expenees                           _4.0            10.6        13.0         15.1           21.7          19.0           21.8           28.8            61.5            64.5          70.5
lotvl                                  1I2.0        143.5        t96.5       248.0         a339.0          411.2          592.6          734.5           910.5         1.110.0      1,294.5
Internal Cash Generation                   61.0         84.7        144.6       185.9          220.6          256.0          208.7          221.2           327.0           439.5         556.5
CAP] 1AL RESOURCES
Frplo.ye-/hIde:,nity Fund (FGTS)
not of  Ithdrawala                     424.4         523.7        727.1       912.4        1,135.1        1,199.6        1,458.0       1,748.5         1,890.0         2,088.0       2,289-0
A-ortizAti.n of loan principal            242.5        551.1        325.2       615.7          570.2          664.1          661.7         881.0         1,212.0          1,260.0      1,500.0
Vor-ie,n loans                              4.1         8.7           8.6        16.5            19.9          13.6           22.8           13.8            75.0            90.0          75.0              OD
Sh,rt-terr  deposits - net                              49.7                                   301.0           20.4          180.9          232.5           186.0           171.0         197-5
Sfiort-ter, Investments - net               0.7                                                               163.1           97.8                          195.0           232.5         212.5
otkhr 3/                                    1.7          27.3        28.0         97.7           13.6         271.3          281.6          257.6             -              -2.
F14M)S AVAIl 1l.E FOR INVESTMENT            73-.4      1,245.2    1,33          12832,20.4                    2 ,58.1        2,702.8        3,354.6         3.R850         4.281.0        4,840.5
IGI'DS APPLIED
Icw loans granted                        618.4         961.1     1,021.9      1,535.4        1,939.4        2,569.7       2,483.2         3.010.8         3.750.0        4,275.0        4,830.0
Drbt Serv0ce                                0.8           0.8         0.8          0.8            0.8            1.7           6.2            3.9           135.0             6.0           10.S
Short-Lera  depcsits - net                                           19.2          1.1
Short-tetn  investmenta - net                -         255.6        197.7       254.0             0.1,          -            213.4          226.4             -                                    '
Other 3/                                  115.2         27.7         11.9         39.9         270.1           16.7           -             113.5             _                                       W -
Total Applications                    734.4       1            =.ZS1 -i5    1 R3$1  2     22=.          =2588.I        2, 7t)?.8      *i~              3,885.p       4              4 Q40.5
FOIS - Wlthdra.als                          291.8         378.1       482.6        618.3         660.2        1,061.2        1,278.5        1,553.4         1,822.5        2,076.0        2,334.0
1   itorica1 figur- b1 ed on aerage t achang, rates betten Eh, US dollarand the crcuzetro; forecast figures are based on ane UPC being equivalent to 15.00 US dollar.
V D ata eatracted frow 1978-60O b.dget-forecest of BNHE.
3/ Includes net incre.se or decrease In working capital.



- 59 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais (COPASA)
Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
Notes on Existing Financial Statements
1.        Because of rapid inflation and accounting differences, it was diffi-
cult to convert the cruzeiro statements into the UPCs in which the financial
projections have been made. As a result of these accounting factors and the
lack of production metering in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area, the histor-
ical financial statements do not provide a reliable base for financial
projections.
2.        The treatment of monetary corrections of fixed assets and liabilities
distorts COPASA's reported net income. Since 1978 assets and debt are
revalued quarterly in conformity with an index provided by the Ministry of
Finance for adjustments of ORTN. Under the corporate law for income tax
determination 1/, these monetary adjustments must be reflected respectively
as income and expense in a SWC's income statement. Since the monetary
adjustments to assets and debt have not usually been equivalent, the net
income shown for a SWC is usually understated or overstated. Recent changes
in the income tax law allow the SWCs to adjust their equity accounts, and the
distortion in the net income account has been reduced. A commercial account-
ing system would exclude these monetary adjustments from the income statement
and only adjust asset, liability, and revaluation surplus accounts. While,
from an economic and investment standpoint, these adjustments have merit,
they must be excluded if meaningful income and cash flow statements for
purposes of cost control, rate making, and comparisons of financial
performance among SWCs are to be produced. Monetary corrections have been
excluded from SWC historical income statements, and financial projections
have been prepared in UPCs which obviates the need to adjust for monetary
correction.
3.        The BNH uniform system of accounts used by COPASA does not provide for
an appropriate statement of sources and applications of cash; this is to be
corrected in 1980 (para. 4.08). As it is difficult to derive these data from
the existing income statements and balance sheets, the historical statements
presented here are subject to a margin of error.
1/   The SWCs must follow the accounting requirements of the corporate law.



- 60 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
Financial Projections
General
4.        Under the new tariff regulations BNH requires that all SWCs prepare
an EVG and financial projections for five years, to be updated on a year-to-year
basis. These studies are analyzed in depth by BNH through COSAN and are the
basis of its recommendation for tariff approval to SEAP through CIP 1/. At
the time of appraisal, COPASA had a revised EVG, approved by BNH, for the
period 1979/83. The mission used that document as the basis for all financial
projections included in this report.
5.        The financial projections are presented in UPCs.  The implied assump-
tion is that tariffs will be regularly adjusted upward to compensate for cruzeiro
depreciation against the UPC, apart from the real increases needed to achieve or
maintain financial viability as required by the new Tariff Law and Regulations.
Income Statement
6.        Water produced has been based on the expected availability of water
from ongoing and planned projects. Water sold has been determined in relation
to supply availability, and includes the following specific goals which COPASA's
management accepted during appraisal:
(a) metropolitan Belo Horizonte area: to 20% by the end of 1983;
(b) other cities with metered production and consumption: to 25% by the
end of 1983; and
(c) cities with production metering but little or no consumption metering:
increase billing volume to reflect a 25% loss.
Tariffs have been assumed to increase sufficiently in 1980 to cover cash operat-
ing and debt service needs. Tariffs are assumed to have equal annual real
increases which will in 1983 produce revenues that are in compliance with the
1978 National Tariff Law and Regulations.
7.        Operating and maintenance expenses (which include commercial and
administrative costs) were developed from the EVG (para. 1.04). Details of
the costs developed for the 151 systems currently operated, and the additional
153 projected to be operated by 1983 are in the Project File. In general
terms the following bases were used:
1/   Prior to September 1979, tariff approval authority was vested only in
CIP which was chaired by the Ministry of Finance.



- 61 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
(a)  Personnel:  current costs were used as the base.  The number of
additional operating staff was developed on the basis of
the number of staff needed to operate systems in five
population ranges. Additional commercial and adminis-
trative personnel were developed based upon volume
(connections) and reduced 2% per year and 3% per year
through 1983;
(b) eleztric energy: as a function of volume of water produced;
(c)  chemicals:  as a function of volume of water produced;
(d) transport: as a function of volume; and
(e) other: as a function of volume, decreased 3% per year through 1983.
Provision for bad debts is a component of "other" costs above, and is assumed
to be 1% of billings per year.
8.        Interest expense has been based on the present interest rates charged
by BNH and FAE and normal average terms of a three and four-year grace period on
principal repayments followed by 18 and 30-year repayment periods respectively
for water and sewerage loans. Interest during the grace period is financed by
both BNH and FAE and capitalized into the cost of construction.
Cash Requirements and Sources
9.        Capital expenditures are based on COPASA's expansion program (Annex
2B). New long-term debt incurred is assumed to be roughly equivalent to
capital expenditures on all subprojects except small community water supply.
These expenditures include capitalized expenses and interest during construction.
Small community subprojects are financed 71% by equity and 29% by FAE loan
terms for water supply.
10.       Debt service has been based on assumption given in paragraphs 8
and 9.
11.       Working capital requirements have been based on the assumption that
inventories would gradually be reduced from 1.4 months supply to one month
supply. Accounts receivable were gradually reduced from two and one-half
months to two months of outstanding bilings. Accounts payable were maintained
at the current level of 20% of annual operating costs, and other current
liabilities represent up to 20% of new investment for works completed
which will be paid from BNH/FAE lines of credit. These assumptions are in line
with levels allowed by the tariff regulations for working capital.
Balance Sheets
12.       Current assets and liabilities have been derived from the assumptions
given in para. 11.
13.       The long-term debt has been derived from the assumptions given in
paras. 8 and 9. Equity has been increased (decreased) annually by the
amount of net income (loss) for the year, by the amount of capital investment
in small communities (para. 9 above), and in 1979 by the projected amount of
cash operating expense and debt service not covered by revenues.



BRAZIL
TIIR1  MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PRO2.ECT
CIA. DE SANEAMENTO DE M
Income Statement
(ISo Millions of UPCs)
___Actual                        _____   ________________                                     Pro joptod       __        _____________________                        _
1.977            4978             1979               1980              1981            1982              1983              1984         1985j.
PopuIto-i   (000)                                                  2,243             3,285            4,287             5,002             5,618            6,110            6,813              7,940       8,322               8,728
Population served-water (000)                                      1,525(E)          2 300(E)         3,115             3,798             4,394            4,868            5,538              6,341       6,742               7,143
Yopulation served (1)                                                  68.0              74>0             72.7              75.9              78.2             79.7             81.3              79.9         81.0               81.8
Connections-water (000)                                              305.0             460.0            623                7S0              879              974            1,108              1,248       1,350               1,430
Connections-sewer (000)                                                96.8            101.3            135                155               17.5            200              215                230          245                260
Population served-sewer (000)                                        830               87()           1,157             1,340             1,596            1,938            2,273              2,829       3,161               3,509
Popolatio- served-sewor (%)                                            37               26               27                 27                28              32                33                36           38                 40
Volume prod,-oed-e3(oillions)                                         175.7            215.7            259.1              303.0            337.8            367.3            406.5              457.1       485.4               513.8
Volume oold-o3(,oSllioos)                                             129.0             150.8           181.4              218.4             250.5           280.0             317.1             353.5        378.8              400.8
Una o..nted-for  -atar (A/)                                            26.1              30.1             30.0              27.9              25.8             23.8             22.0              22.0         22.0               22.0
Water reven-es                                                          1.42              1.79             2.13              2.94              3.69             4.51             5.59              6.79         7.61               8.60
Sota  rvenues                                                           0.49             0.62             0.60              0.92               1.41             1.88             2.42              3.15         3.71               4.38
Total ravoonos                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.91  2.41  2.73              3.66              5.11)            6.39             8.01              9.94        11.32              12.98
P--ronnel                                                               0.78              1.0)2            1.36              1.64              1.88            2.09              2.35              2.61         2.78               2.94
Materials                                                               0.10              0.22             0.11              0.13              0.15            0.17              0.27)             0.22         0.23               0.25
Power                                                                  0.03              0.04             0.21              0.22              0.26             0.32             0.36               0.44        0.49                0.57
Other  0olrerlr,1-traneport                                             0.16              0.22            0.14               0.15              0.17            0.23              0.24              0.30         0.33               0.38
Other-general                                                           0.24             0.31             0.46               0.54             0.62             0.66             0.74                 7          O.84               0.85
Torte   Cossl                                                           1.31              4.01             2.29              2.69              3.08             3.45             3.88              4.35         4.67               4.99
Income before dapre.iotion                                              0.60              0.60            0.44               1.17              2.02             2.94             4.13              5.59         6.65               7-99
Depre-iation                                                            0.17             0.26             0.36              0.44              0.59             0.02              1.11              1.53         2.04               2.41
Income before interest                                                 0.43              0.34             0.08              0.73              1.43             2.12              3.02              4.06        4.61                5.58
Interest rhargod operations                                            ().32)            (0.43)           (0.48)            (0.58)            (0.74)           (0.97)           (1.48)            (2.03)       (2.27)             (2.72)
onoperating                                                             0.01             (0.02)           (0.05)            (0.05)            (0.05)           (0.05)           (0.05)            (0.05)       (0.05)             (0.05)
Nct in-o-                                                               0.12             (0.11)           (0.45)             0.10              0.64             1.10             1.49              1.98         2.29               2.81
Operating rtio (4)  a/                                                 68.6              75.1             83.9              69.7             60.4             54.0             48.4               43.8        41.3                38.4
Average rato base                                                      5.57              8.83            10.98             13.17             17.62            24.63             33.33              45.90      61.07               71.36     m
Role at     rtn (                                                      2.7               3.9              0.7               5.5               8.1              8.6               9.1                8.8        7.5                 7.8
a! Excluding deprecietion.
(E) estimated
(A) =-ctoal



BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CIA. DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS, S.A. (COPASA)
Balance Sheet
(millions of UPCs)
1977        1978      1979      1980        1981     _1982         1983        1984         1985       1986
Fixed assets in operation           8.28       11.02     13.22      16.20       23.14      31.64       42.48       59.43        76.37      84.46
Accumulated depreciation           (0.68)      (0.96)    (1.32)      (1.76)     (2.35)     (3.18)       (4.29)     (5.82)       (7.85)    (10.27)
Net fixed assets                    7.60       10.06    11.90        14.44      20.79      28.46        38.19      53.61        68.52      74.19
Work in progress                    5.45        6.60      9.01       17.30      28.10      34.44        33.49      22.80        11.38       8.19
Total fixed assets                 13.05       16.66    20.91       31.74       48.89      62.90        71.68      76.41        79.90      82.38
Cash                                0.15        0.18      0.20        0.05       0.32       1.01         2.18       3.38         5.20       7.69
Accounts receivable                C0. 42       0.45      0.48        0.64       0.85       1.07         1.34       1.66         1.89       2.16
Inventories                         C.20        0.19      0.21       0.22        0.26       0.28         0.32       0.36         0.39       0.42
Total Current Assets                0.77        0.82      0.89        0.91       1.43       2.36         3.84       5.40         7.48      10.27
Other assets                         --         0.38       --
Prepaid and deferred                0.05        0.04      0.04        0.04       0.04       0.04         0.04       0.04         0.04       0.04
Total assets                       13.87       17.90    21.84        32.69      50.36      65.30        75.56      81.85        87.42      92.69          a3
Capital                             1.72        2.12      2.83        3.26       3.69       4.12         4.55       4.98         5.34       5.62
Reserves                            1.58        2.04      1.66        1.66       ].66       1.66         1.66       1.66         1.66       1.66
Operational surplus                 0.05        0.05     (0.40)      (0.30)      0.34       1.44         2.93       4.88         7.17       9.98
Equity                              3.35        4.21      4.09        4.62       5.69       7.22         9.14      11.52        14.17      17.26
Long-term debt                      9.13       12.17    15.71       24.52       39.59      53.19        61.65      65.93        68.43      69.76
Accounts payable                    0.42        0.39      0.48        0.58       0.63       0.71         0.80       0.87         0.93       1.28
Other current liabilities           0.48        0.64      0.92        2.18       3.54       2.77         1.98       1.25         1.10       0.98
Current maturities                  0.49        0.49      0.56        0.71       0.91       1. 41        1.99       2.28         2.79       3.41
Total current liabilities           1.39        1.52      1.96        3.55       5.08       4.89         4.77       4.40         4.82       5.67
Total equity and liabilities   13.87           17.90    21.84        32.69      50.36      65.30        75.56      81.85        87.42      92.69
% Debt (debt + equity)             73.2        74.3      79.3       84.1        87.4       88.0        87.1        85.1         82.8       80.2         c
Working capital ratio               0.55        0.54      0.45        0.26       0.28       0.48         0.81       1.23         1.55       1.81         ,
Working capital ratio a/            0.85        0.93      0.86        0.71       0.93       1.11         1.38       1.71         2.01       2.19
Debt service coverage               0.70        0.67      0.42        0.98       1.36       1.54         1.41       1.38         1.45       1.44
a/  Excluding "Other Current Liabillties' which are mostly project related and thus covered by BNH/FAE lines of creait.



BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CIA. DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS, S.A. (COPASA)
FLOW OF FUNDS
(millions of UPCs)
Description                                1977         1978       1979      1980        1981       1982       1983       1984      1985    1986
Income Before Depreciation                 0.60        0.60       0.44       1.17        2.02       2.94       4.13       5.59      6.65    7.99
Nonoperating (Net)                         0.01        (0.02)     (0.05)     (0.05)     (0.05)     (0.05)    (0.05)      (0.05)   (0.05)  (0.05)
Gross Internal Generation             0.61        0.58       0.39       1.12       1.97       2.89       4.08       5.54      6.60    7.94
Increase in Current Liabilities            0.39        0.05       0.44       1.38       1.28      (0.64)    (0.71)       (0.68)    (0.12)  (0.24)
Increase in Equity                         0.58        0.40       0.38       0.43       0.43       0.43       0.43       0.43       0.36    0.28
Long-term Loans                            2.79        2.91        4.10      9.52      15.98      15.01      10.45        6.56      5.29    4.74
Difference due to Exchange                 (0.22)      0.82       (0.24)         -          -          -          -          -         -        -
Total Sources                         4.15        4.76       5.07      12.45      19.66      17.69      14.25      11.83    12.13   13.20
Investment in Project                         -            -          -      2.68       9.29       8.63       6.29        5.39                  -
Interest Capitalized                          -            -          -      0.18       0.63       0.59       0.43        0.36                  -
Other Works - Total                        3.18        3.39       4.61       8.43       7.77       5.66        3.16       0.51      5.50    4.90
Total Investment                      3.18        3.39       4.61      11.29      17.69      14.88       9.88       6.26      5.50    4.90
Amortization - IDB Loan                      NA          NA       0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05        0.05       0.05      0.05    0.05
Amortization - BNU Loan                      NA           NA      0.23       0.28        0.34      0.43        0.69       1.00      1.13    1.38
Amortization - FAE Loan                      NA           NA      0.17       0.23        0.32       0.43       0.67       0.93      1.10    1.36
Total Amortization                    0.55        0.43       0.45       0.56       0.71       0.91       1.41       1.98      2.28    2.79
Operational Interest                       0.32        0.43       0.48       0.58       0.74       0.97        1.48       2.03      2.27    2.72      M
Total Debt Service                    0.87        0.86       0.93       1.14       1.45       1.88       2.89       4.01      4.55    5.51    o
Increase in Current Assets                 0.10        0.13       0.07       0.02       0.52       0.93       1.48        1.56      2.08    2.79    .
Increase in Other Assets                      -        0.38           -          -          -          -          -          -         -        -
Total Applications                    4.15        4.76       5.07      12.45      19.66      17.69      14.25      11.83    12.13   13.20
=                    __       _-                                                      ==



BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CIA. DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS, S.A. (COPASA)
TARIFF REQUIREMENTS UNDER DECREE-LAW NO. 82587 (197.8)
(millions of UPCs)
----Actual ----           --------------------- - _________-Year Law Fully ______________________
Effective
Description                            1977        1978          1979      1980       1981       1982       1983      1984      1985    1986
Tariffs should equal:
Operating Costs                      1.31        1.81          2.29      2.69       3.08       3.45       3.88      4.35      4.67    4.99
Debt Service                         0.97        0.97          0.93      1.13       1.45       1.89       2.89      4.02      4.55    5.51
Subtotal-Cash Costs               2.28       2.78          3.22       3.82       4.53       5.34      6.77       8.37      9.22   10.50
Depreciation                         0.17        0.26          0.35      0.40       0.52       0.76       1.07      1.49      2.00    2.37
Total-Allowable Costs             2.45       3.04          3.57       4.22       5.05       6.10      7.84       9-86    11.22   12.87
Revenues Generated                     1.91        2.41          2.73 (E)
% of Cash Costs Covered               78.0        86.7          84.8
Revenues at 1979 Tariffs- millions of UPCs                                  3.34      4.0        4.5        5.2        6.0      6.4
Increases to Meet Cash Needs-%                                            14.4          -                                                      0,
Increases to Meet Cash in 1980 and full                                   14.4        9.5        9.5        9.5       7.9       5.5      6.8  >
Tariff Law Requirements by 1983-%
Alternative il-equal tariff increases 80/84-%                             10.8       10.8       10.8       10.8
Note: (E) - Estimated



BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CIA. DE SAMEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS. S.A.
Monitoring Indicators
Population and Population Served         1977               1978                  1979              1980               1981               1982               1983           1984          1985          1986
Population (000)                         2,243              3,285               4,287              5,002              5,618              6,110              6,811          7,940         8,322         8,728
Population served-water                  1,525              2,300               3,115             3,798               4,394              4,868              5,538          6,341         6,742         7,143
Population served-sewerage                 830                870               1,157             1,340               1,596              1,938              2,273          2,829         3,161         3,509
% Served-water                              68                  70                  73                76                 78                 80                 81             80            81            82
% Served-sewerage                           37                 26                   27                27                 28                 32                 33             36            38            40
Demand
Production-million m3/year                 175.7              215.7                259.1             303.0              337.8              367.3              406.5          457.1         485.4         513.8
Consumption-million m3/year                129.8              150.8                181.4             218.4              250.5              280.0              317.1          356.5         378.8         400.8
% Unaccounted-for water                     26.1                30.1                30.0              27.9               25.8               23.8               22.0           22.0          22.0          22.0
Water connections (000)                    305                460                  623               760                879                974              1,108          1,268         1,350         1,430
Sewer connections (000)                     97                101                  135               155                175                200                215            230           245           260
Administration
Employees/connections (000)  a/             10.4                 8.8                 8.1               7.5                6.9                6.4                6.0            6.0           6.0           6.0
Revenues
Average water tariff/m3 sold (UPC)             .01094             .01187              .01174            .01346             .01473             .01611              .01763         .01905        .0201         .0215
Average total tariff/m3 sold (UPC)             .01471             .01598              .01505            .01767             .02036             .02282              .02526         .02788        .0299         .0324
% Increase in revenues                                          26.2                13.3              41.4               32.1               25.3               25.4           24.1           13.9          14.7
Costs
Operating cost-millions of UPCs b/            1.31               1.81                2.29              2.69               3.08               3.45               3.88           4.35          4.67          4.99
Financial Ratios
7. of operating ratio b/                     68.6               75.1                83.9              69.7               60.4               54.0               48.4           43.4          41.3           38.4
% rate of return                              7.7 c/             3.9                 0.7               5.5                8.1                8.6                9.1             8.8          7.5            7.8   Q
Debt service ratio - Annual                  0.69               0.64                 0.40              0.81               1.07               1.02               1.03           1.23          1.21          1.20
% debt (debt 4 equity)                       73.2               74.3                79.3              84.1               87.4               88.0               87.1           85.1           82.8          80.2
a/  Total employees/l,000 voter connections.
b;/ Excluding depreciation.
c/ Not comparable due to accounting changes in December 1977.



-67-
ANNEX 11
Page I of 3
BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Disbursement Procedures
Introduction
1.        In the four approved and effective loans to BNH for water supply
and sewerage projects in five states (Table 2.1), disbursements are made
against statements of expenditure. This is the only practical procedure under
circumstances where the loan is made to the financial intermediary, there
are a large number of subprojects financed, and contracts for both supply
and construction are awarded to local contractors. The present disbursement
procedure is consistent with BNH's procedures, ensures a proper control over
Bank disbursements, is working satisfactorily in ongoing projects, and will
accordingly be adopted for this project as well as for the South States
Project. The BNH financing mechanism and the Bank reimbursement procedures
are described below.
BNH/SWC Financing Contract
2.        When any subproject foreseen in the Loan Agreement has been approved
by BNH and the Bank, COPASA requests a PLANASA financing contract for that
subproject (it may combine two or more subprojects in a single request). This
request (solicitacao de financiamento) is submitted to BNH's financial agent,
which is the state bank that also handles the state FAE. The financial
agent then submits the request to BNH and FAE. Formal loan agreements
are prepared establishing terms, total amount of the loan, amount of the
advance payment, and repayment terms. This contract between BNH and
the financial agent specifies the subproject or subprojects for which the
funds are provided. The financial agent, in turn, makes identical contracts
with COPASA. For control purposes, BNH establishes a Financial Contract
Number (CTN) for each contract and all subsequent payment requests must
bear that number. Thus, the financing for the subproject(s) has been
established as in the schematic drawing below:



-69-
ANNEX-ll
Page 2 of 3
Financial                      (50% of total)
ReqSLestWC                     Agent
FAE-    --- (50% of total)
Contract A                 Contract B
Financial       BNH
Contract                      F iancial
A  Aent        .       w
Borrower's (BNH) Expenditure Control Procedure
3.        Expenditure control for BNH is exercised in the SWC as follows:
(a)  bidding documents and final contracts for civil works, equipment
and services to be rendered are examined by the SWC to verify that
the contracts do, in fact, pertain to the subproject.  The OTs
review all invoices submitted against the contracts to establish
the validity of percentages of completion and delivery of materials,
and also monitor the construction of all subprojects; and
(b) the financial agent verifies the authenticity of documentation
and verifies paid invoices against advance payment requests.
BNH Disbursements
4.        Actual disbursements on the part of BNH are made against either
paid or unpaid invoices. Under the first alternative, the SWC submits a
list of invoices that it has paid to BNH's technical agent for review.
The OT approves (or rejects) each individual invoice, correcting the
listing for rejections and returns all documents to the SWC. The SWC then
submits the approved listing to the financial agent who verifies that the
invoices were paid and, then submits the list of paid invoices to BNH and FAE
for reimbursement. Under the second alternative, the procedure is identical
except that a list of unpaid invoices is submitted and the request is the
equivalent of an advance. During the following month, the SWC must present
"paid" copies of the invoices for which it received funding in the previous
month; it can then submit another request for funding of new unpaid invoices.



-69-
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 3
5.        On receipt of the verified list of paid or unpaid invoices from
the financial agent, BNH issues a payment order. This document is approved by
S/SFS, and then routed to BNH's Finance Department for the payment authoriza-
tion and transfer of funds to the financial agent. Administrative and
technical services fees are deducted. The financial agent then credits the
appropriate account of the SWC.
Basis of Transactions Between BNH, the Final User, and the Bank
6.        The basis of.project approval, the loan financial contracts,
(CTNs) 1/ and BNH disbursements is the UPC. The UPC is a monetary unit which
is adjusted every three months in accordance with the percentage increase
granted to ORTN. All disbursement requests by the SWCs, final contract
settlements, and payments of interest and principal are stated in terms of UPC
at the conversion rate to the cruzeiro in effect in the quarter that the
SWC makes the request. BNH submits to the Bank requests for reimbursement
for expenditures on approved subprojects (CTNs) supported by copies of
disbursement orders issued (para 5). The Bank reimburses BNH the agreed
disbursement percentages at the official rate of exchange (established by the
Banco Central do Brazil) between the cruzeiros disbursed by BNH to the SWCs
and the US dollar on the date of reimbursement (any currencies other than
US dollars are converted to dollars in accordance with Bank practice).
Evaluation
8.        The disbursement procedure to be adopted is consistent with
BNH's internal procedures and works satisfactorily. BNH, through its
OTs and external auditor, exercises satisfactory control over subproject
implementation and disbursements to contractors. The accounting procedures
followed are straightforward and the records will be available for super-
vision missions to verify expenditures on selected projects. Furthermore,
under the loan the independent auditor of BNH will be required to certify
that the procurement procedures at COPASA, and the disbursement procedures
at BNH are proper.
1/   BNH provides the Bank with copies of each financing contract for Bank-
approved subproject(s).



-70-
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return Calculations
1.        The long-run average incremental costs for the total project were
calculated with the same investment program as used for the IRR (para. 8.02),
since statewide investments beyond the project have not been fully identified.
The long-run average incremental costs for the metropolitan Belo Horizonte
water supply component include investment costs for two additional dams
and all complementary works after the project period through the year 2010
as forecast in the master plan (para. 6.09). Sewerage investments for the
metropolitan Belo Horizonte area include complementary investments through
1988, but do not consider the cost of treatment facilities in addition to
those in the project. A comparison between the long-run average incremental
costs for the metropolitan area with project tariffs at incremental con-
sumption above the basic water consumption level (10 m3/month) is shown in
the following table.
AVERAGE LONG-RUN INCREMENTAL COSTS a/ AND TARIFFS
(November 1979 Prices)
Average Incremental Costs a/    First Excess
(at 11% discount)        Consumption Block
Water supply (US$/m3)               0.21                     0.22
Sewerage (US$/m3)                   0.15                     0.15
a/ In terms of UPC these values are 0.01913 for water supply and
0.01220 for sewerage.
2.       Under the proposed project, those paying the first excess con-
sumption block water and sewerage tariffs in the metropolitan Belo
Horizonte area will be paying more than the average long-run incremental
cost of both services. For the total project, the 1982 average sewerage
tariff will exceed the incremental sewerage cost of the total project.
By 1985 the average water tariff will exceed the total project water
incremental cost. Since COPASA's planned tariffs meet the National Tariff
Regulations, it is likely that they can be achieved.



THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CIA. DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS, S.A.(COPASA)
Internal Rate of Return-Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region
(Millions of UPCs)
(Millions of m3)                     (Millions of UPCs)               (Millions of UPCs)               Total Investment
Incremental Volume a/                   Investment                       Operating Costs              and Operating Costs
Year         Water      Sewerage                 Water      Sewerage      Total      Water   Sewerage        Total      Water   Sewerage Total
1980                                              2.98          0.21        3.19       --        --            --        2.98        0.21    3.19
198]          48.9        20.6                    4.11          1.68         5.79      0.34    0.05            0.39      4.45        1.73    6.18
1982          75.3        29.0                    3.77          2.08         5.85      0.52    0.08            0.60      4.29        2.16    6.45
1983          93.8        39.0                    2.33          1.10         3.43      0.63    0.10            0.73      2.96        1.20    4.16
1984         112.1        49.8                    1.62          0.72        2.34       0.76    0.13            0.89      2.38        0.85    3.23
1985         119.6        61.5                    0.22          0.75        0.97       0.80    0.16            0.96      1.02        0.91    1.93
1986         127.6        73.1                    0.14          0.51        0.65       0.85    0.19            1.04      0.99        0.70    1.69
1987         134.3        86.0                    0.61          0.55         1.16       0.89    0.22           1.11      1.50        0.77    2.27
1988         139.8        99.6                    0.14          0.59        0.73        0.92    0.26           1.18      1.06        0.85    1.91
1989         145.2        99.6                    0.09          --          0.09       0.95    0.26            1.21      1.04        0.26    1.30
1990-2009   145.2         99.6                     --           --            --        0.95    0.26           1.21      0.95        0.26    1.21
(Millions of UPCs)                                                      (Millions of UPCs)
Revenues (1979 Tariffs)                                                Revenues with Project Tariffs
Water        Serage    Total                                              Water  Sewerage        Total
1980          --          --           --                                               --      --            --
1981           0.58        0.16         0.74                                            0.72    0.29          1.01
1982           0.89        0.23         1.12                                            1.21    0.44          1.65
1983           1.11        0.31         1.42                                            1.66    0.65          2.31                                   3 
1984           1.32        0.39         1.71                                            2.13    0.90          3.03                                   M 
1985           1.41        0.48         1.89                                            2.40    1.17          3.57                                  0a"
1986           1.50        0.58         2.08                                            2.74    1.48          4.22
1987           1.58        0.67         2.25                                            2.88    1.74          4.62
1988           1.65        0.78         2.43                                            3.00    2.02          5.02
1989           1.71        0.78         2.49                                            3.11    2.02          5.13
1990-2009      1.71        0.78         2.49                                            3.11    2.02          5.13
Incremental Rate of Return
Water supply (1979 tariffs)             1.84
Water supply (project tariffs)         11.85
Combined (1979 tariffs)                 2.62
Combined (project tariffs)             14.40
a/ Sewerage volume is m3 equivalent.



BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CIA. DE SANEANENTO DE MINAS GERAIS (COPASA)
Long-Run Average Incremental Cost-Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Region
(Millions m3)                              (Millions of UPCs)
Volume                     Investment                  Operating Cost
Year               Water            Sewer          Water          Sewer         Water          Sewer
1980                  --               --              2.98          0.21 
1981                  48.9             20.6           4.11           1.68           0.34          0.05
1982                   75.3            29.0            3.77          2.08           0.52          0.08
1983                   93.8            39.0            2.33          1.10          064           0.10
1984                 112.1             49.8            3.40          0.72           0.76          0.13
1985                 119.6             61.5            3.06          0.75           0.80          0.16
1986                 127.6             73.1            2.38          0.51           0.85          0.19
1987                 181.0             86.0           0.60           0.55           1.24          0.22
1988                 199.1             99.6            1.38          0.59           1.37          0.26
1989                 217.8             99.6           1.38           --             1.50          0.26
1990                 231.4             99.6            1.44          --             1.60          0.26
1991                 251.1             99.6            1.32          --             1.73          0.26
1992                 263.6             99.6           0.47           --             1.82          0.26
1993                 277.8             99.6           0.47           --             1.93          0.26
1994                 292.8             99.6           0.46                          2.03          0.26
1995                 307.0             99.6           0.43            -             2.13          0.26
1996                 320.6             99.6           0.40           --             2.23          0.26
1997                 333.7             99.6           0.44           -              2.32         0.26
1998                 346.9             99.6           0.38           --             2.41         0.26
1999                 359.2             99.6           0.34           --             2.49         0.26
2000                 364.4             99.6           0.35           --             2.52          0.26
2001                 369.8             99.6           0.09           --             2.54          0.26
2002                 375.3             99.6           0.09           --             2.58         0.26
2003                 377.3             99.6           0.09           --             2.60         0.26
2004                 377.3             99.6           0.09           --             2.60         0.26
2005                 377.3             99.6           0.09           --             2.60         0.26
2006                 377.3             99.6           0.09           --             2.60         0.26
2007                 377.3             99.6           0.09           --             2.60         0.26
2008                 377.3             99.6           0.09           --             2.60         0.26
2009                 377.3             99.6           0.09           --             2.60         0.26
2010                 377.3             99.6           0.n9           --             2.60          n.26
Average Incremental Costs-Water-UPC .01913/m3 and Sewerage-UPC .01220/m3 equivalent.                                                       3 
w M
Assumptions                                                                                                                                ofr
Water Supply - All investments, including that being financed under Loan 1309-BR but which provides water supply to this                   *
project (Serra Azul Dam), were included. A shadow exchange rate factor of 1.3 was applied to the foreign exchange
content of the project as well as to all future investments.  All data was discounted at 11%, the opportunity cost of
capital.
Sewerage - Since future expansion costs are unknown, data was taken for the project period only; shadow exchange rate
and discount factors were used as in water supply.



BRAZ IL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS (COPASA)
Incremental Rate of Return/Average Incremental Cost
Total Bank Project
Volum7e (m3 x 000)            Investment (UPC x 000)    Operatinp Costs (UPC/m3)               Revenues (UPC x 000)
Year        Water    Sewerage                Water  Sewere    _          T            Sewerage    Total    Water    Sewerage    Total
1980         --          --                   5.5        1.0         6.5      --          --         --        --          --          --
1981        62.4         21.2                 6.8        1.5         8.3      0.43       0.05       0.48      0.92        0.29        1.21
1982        93.4         33.7                 5.4        1.8         7.2      0.64       0.08       0.72      1.50        0.51        2.01
1983      116.4          45.7                 4.6        1.5         6.1      0.78       0.11       0.89      2.05        0.76        2.81
1984      137.9          58.6                 1.9        0.9         2.8      0.93       0.14       1.07      2.63        1.05        3.68                  1
1985-2009 146.9          72.1                 --         --          --       1.00       0.17       1.17      2.95        1.37        4.04                 -4
IRR-water supply    6.67%                                                                                                                        41
IPR-combined         8.19%                                                                                                                       
AIC-water            UPC 0.247/m3=US$0.34/m3
AIC-sewerage         UPC .0l272/m3=US$0.18/m3 equivalent
etM5Ms
Investments-All investrents forecast in COPASA's EVG (1979-83) were included except investments in medium and large cities for
which COPASA does not have operating concessions.  In addition, the investm^ent for the Serra Azul Dam being financed
under Loan 1309-BR  was included.  A shadow exchange rate factor of 1.3 was applied to the foreign exchange content
of the project.  For average incremental cost purposes, a discount rate of 11% was used to represent the opportunity
cost of capital.



- 74 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS (COPASA)
COPASA's 1980 Investment Program
1.        The proposed 1980 investment program represents a monetary
increase of 143% over the 1979 program (11.2 million UPC versus 4.6 million),
as demonstrated in the following table:
Investment in UPC Millions
1979    1980       Increase
Water Supply
Ongoing Projects
Metropolitan Belo Horizonte            0.7      0.6        (0.1)
Medium cities                          2.0      2.2         0.2
Small cities                           0.3      0.6         0.3
New Projects
Serra Azul scheme                      0.1      4.0         3.9
Metropolitan Belo Horizonte            0.2      0.4         0.2
Medium cities                          --       1.0         1.0
Subtotal-Water Supply               3.3      8.8        5.5
Sewerage
Ongoing Projects
Metropolitan Belo Horizonte            1.2      1.8         0.6
Medium cities                          0.1      --         (0.1)
New Projects
Metropolitan Belo Horizonte            --       0.3         0.3
Medium cities                          --       0.3         0.3
Subtotal-Sewerage                   1.3      2.4        1.1
Total Investment                           4.6    11.2         6.6
2.        The availability of financing for this increase is virtually
guaranteed under the PLANASA program. COPASA's capability and the con-
tractorst capacity to absorb such an increase were reviewed during appraisal.
Given the following factors, it appears reasonable that the program could
be executed:



- 75 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
Serra Azul Scheme
(a) 59% (3.9 million UPC) of the increase is attributable
to the Serra Azul Dam, treatment plant, and transmission
line subproject. The Dam includes land expropriation cost
which is a single large cash deposit (to be made in 1980)
with eventual settlement at some future date. Contracts
for dam construction have been let, and the contractor is
in fact working on the diversion of the river. BNH has
approved the designs for the remainder of the Serra Azul
scheme. Specifications are complete (or nearly complete)
for construction of the treatment plant, pumping stations
and main transmission pipelines. COPASA is preparing
bidding to award contracting for civil works by April for
immediate implementation. Pipe contracts are to be
signed by May with final delivery requested by September.
Equipment for the treatment plant and pumping stations
is to be contracted by May (with a 30% prepayment) 1/;
(b) Control of the project will be exercised through con-
sulting firms. SONDOTECNICA has been selected for the
dam construction and is working. COPASA will select
two or more additional consulting firms by May; one is
being considered for the main transmission line and a
second for the treatment plant and pumping stations 1/; and
(c) Because of the size of the projects, Brazil's largest
contractors (Mendes Junior, Camargo Correia, etc.)
submitted bids for the dam (Mendes Junior was selected)
and have expressed interest in the rest of the project.
Thus, barring some unforeseen contingency, this project
component should not present difficulties in execution.
Remainder of the Investment Increase
(a) Of the remaining 2.7 million UPC increase in 1980 over
1979 investment, 1.1 million is allocated to expanded
water supply and sewerage projects in the Belo Horizonte
area and 1.6 million represents the expected investment
growth in ongoing or new projects in medium and small
cities.
3.        On the basis of COPASA's EVG and the proposed construction program
for 1981, it is expected that investment growth will continue at the same
pace.
1/ Dr. Marcio Manta, Director of Expansion, provided this data by
telephone on January 28, 1980.



- 76 -
ANNEX 14
BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Sector Reports and Studies By Others
1. Statistical Data-Brazil-1978
2. Movements in the Economy of the State of Minas Gerais
1960-77 (four volumes)
3. Economic and Social Development for the State of Minas Gerais-
1979 (three volumes)
B.   Project Related Reports By Others
1. Global Feasibility Study (Revised) 1979-COPASA
2.  PLAMBEL-Metropolitan Belo Horizonte Structure
3. Audited Financial Statements-1974-78-COPASA
4. Serra Azul Dam and Reservoir (Leme Engenharia)
5. Evaluation of the Design of Serra Azul Dam (R. Cajiao-Consultant)
6. Water Supply Master Plan for Metropolitan Belo Horizonte - 1977
7. Sewerage Master Plan for Belo Horizonte and CONTAGEM - 1975
C.   Documentation Prepared by Bank Staff and Consultants
1. Detailed Financial Projections-COPASA-1979-86
2. Urban Poverty Analysis (A. Penfold-Consultant)



BRD 74747R
BRAZIL                                                                                                                                Sorto Lu ,      - -APCH 'RB
THIRD  MINAS  GERAIS WATER  SUPPLY  &  SEWERAGE   PROJECT                                                    '                                           -            -                     -   -
Metropol.ran  Belo  Horizonte Woter Supply                                                                                                                                                                       _    _ _ATER MA \
<-'           57-A~             I III BIT Ar, RESEP1A. A
'NA        &        ACA    WA~~~TFR  REATMEAT EAR 
/~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          .. FHET                                                                                                            PA']nd4S  IT'S /  H_ ,?PR .'EEPS_'e
Auu} ~ _ E \ _ _ *- .  r PP'-P;                                          r  \iW L .  -         CU    _      _ ) ~< -AA ER ITc ST
4 S H - _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                                                                   rt9L%BRA ZL|\|E  msr---- SPB,
-C  N                                                                .,                                                                                           -                        RESEPAMPS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40IZN 
.   ,< 5 Aa,^s ke-e;vs,r  .  ~ ,-  A_                                 A v   grb1  "   ___. _ _  <    7elivJa   ,  8PAv AE ;                                            =                                                              A
X  -, -.  >PdA=        z            (                                  X_              d          o. i TASorl ~  .   \ _'.',I
wal  ww"          IANA     5~~~~~~7N'                Uqu.   p   V'AEA                                                      M    <A
_   -   29              ~      ~              (    ~~--<   --                      7              3           "_. - ^, H P>1dp.,                            \; ~~~ %N'hT .J/Sb Bpopos l* ht               ~     - zoSt RAs sREec
Peqop  3-'   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
SO'    ER' AT                                                                                                     3 I-
._._,  _  C.  .15  W  '  r  iNS'  A8' >  l fD?  }  ,  W}  .ttUS Ufan; ,P0,ary, ' /t fif it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                           >T-.              'R' AA~
/3  - A (                                                                                                             TOO
/ ~~~        c'--                              kRR VA               RAA'A'A~~~~~~~V "t6"
I\   9'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  A   ETSTIPTT'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.......
A!1 WA



