Document of                         FILE  COPy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2801-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERATE PROJECT
April 28, 1980
.us document has a restricted distributin and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979        April 21, 1980 1/
Currency Unit       -      Cruzeiro (Cr$)             Cr$
US$1                -      Cr$26.85                  48.14
Cr$l                -      US$0.037                   0.021
ACRONYMS
BCRMG    -  Banco de Credito Real de Minas Gerais
(The Commercial Bank of the State of Minas Gerais)
BNH      -  Banco Nacional da Habitacao
(National Housing Bank)
CEMIG    -  Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S.A.
(Minas Gerais Electric Power Company)
COPASA   -  Companhia do Saneamento de Minas Gerais, S.A.
(Minas Gerais State Water Company)
COSAN    -  Carteria de Operacaes do Sistema Financeira de Saneamento
(Operations Division for the Sanitation
Finance System)
FAE      -  Fundo de Agua e Esgotos
(State Water and Sewerage Revolving Fund)
FGTS     -  Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servico
(National Indemnity Fund)
FINEST   -  Subprograma de Emprestimo Suplementar
(Subprogram for Supplementary Loans)
ORTN     -  Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional
(Readjustable National Treasury Bonds)
OT       -  Technical Supervisory Agency
PAHO     -  Pan American Health Organization
PLANASA  -  Piano Nacional de Saneamento
(National Sanitation Plan)
SABESP   -  Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo
(Sao Paulo State Water Supply and Sewerage Company)
SATECIA  -  Programa de Asistencia Tecnica para o Desenvolvimento
Institucional das Empresas Estaduais de Saneamento
(Program of Technical Assistance for Institutional
Development of State Water Companies)
SWC      -  State Water Company
ur,      -  Unidauc PJadao U1 Capital
(Standard Monetary Unit)
i,   An exchange rate of Cr$31.01 per US$, prevailing in November 1979, was
used in the appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH)
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiary:         Companhia do Saneamento de Minas Gerais - COPASA
Amount:              US$139 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace
at 8.25% interest per annum.
Relending Terms
To Final
Beneficiaries:    Repayment in 18 to 30 years, including one to four
and one-half years of grace at 5.0% per annum
on the indexed principal, plus various one-time fees
amounting to about 3% of the loan amount. The interest
rate under subprogram in support of small communities
is 3% on the indexed principal. BNH would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Pro ect
Description:       The project would extend water supply services to
1.9 million people and sewerage services to 1.1 million
people in the State of Minas Gerais. It would also
improve and guarantee safe water supply to 3.1 million
people presently served. The water supply component of
the project would include development of Serra Azul
water source to increase water supply to the state capital,
Belo Horizonte, by 2.6 m /sec, construction of a dam to
ensure continuous water supply from the Rio das Velhas
source (also for Belo Horizonte) and expansion of the
distribution system in the metropolitan Belo Horizonte
area. In addition it includes construction or expansion
of water supply systems in about 30 medium-size cities and
150 small communities. The sewerage component includes
expanding the metropolitan Belo Horizonte system, as well
as construction or expansion of systems in about 12 medium-
size cities. The project includes related studies and
technical assistance required to carry out the project.
It is estimated that about 40% of the final beneficiaries
receiving water supply services in the Belo Horizonte
metropolitan area would belong to families with incomes
below the relative poverty level. Benefits in terms of
control of waterborne diseases would accrue especially to the
urban poor. The project involves a financial risk related
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
o their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
to timely and adequate tariff increases in real terms.
This risk is reduced by the national tariff legislation.
Additionally, the project involves the administrative
risks associated with carrying out a large and complex
investment program by COPASA. However, COPASA's
project execution experience under Loans 1009-BR and
1309-BR and the subproject preparation and eligibility
criteria developed should ensure the successful execution
of the project.
Estimated Cost:                                          --US$ Million Equivalent--
Local     Foreign    Total
Civil Works and Equipment
Water Supply                     142.7        78.4      221.1
Sewerage                          64.8        24.7       89.5
Engineering and
Technical Assistance              27.9         3.1       31.0
235.4      106.2      341.6
Physical Contingencies              23.5        10.6       34.1
Price Contingencies                 48.1        22.2       70.3
Total                         307.0       139.0     446.0
Financing Plan:      Proposed IBRD Loan                      -       139.0      139.0
State Water Supply and
Sewerage Revolving Fund          223.0           -     223.0
Banco Nacional da Habitacao         84.0           -       84.0
307.0      139.0      446.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
US$ Million Equivalent-------
Bank FY81   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual                   11.2     38.9   36.1   26.3   26.5
Cumulative               11.2     50.1   86.2  112.5  139.0



- iii -
Rate of Return:      The most important project benefits are not meaningfully
quantifiable. These include improved health, in parti-
cular lower infant mortality, increased labor produc-
tivity, and improved environment through reduced water
pollution. The rate of return based on incremental
revenues and costs (conservatively used as a proxy for
the minimum economic rate of return) is estimated at 8%.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2839-BR, dated April 28, 1980.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$139 million to help finance a
water supply and sewerage project in the state of Minas Gerais. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at
8.25% per annum. Proceeds of the loan would be relent to the state water
company of Minas Gerais (COPASA) at 5% per annum (plus various one-time
fees amounting to about 3% of the loan amount) with principal subject to
monetary correction in accordance with changes in the national treasury bond
index. The interest rate under the subprogram in support of small communities
is 3% on the indexed principal. Relending would be for 18 to 30 years includ-
ing grace periods of one to four and one-half years. Payments due to the Bank
but not yet collected from the companies would be met from the general resources
of BNH.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex table3 are based on that
report. An economic mission has recently returned from Brazil and is at
present preparing its report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. During its
first year it has had to grapple with accelerating inflation and a deterior-
ating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the Govern-
ment include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial both to the solution of the inflation and balance-
of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living
standards and a better income distribution.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased by more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that most
Brazilians shared in the absolute improvement of living standards that
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth
of public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,



- 2 -
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 oillion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum must be imported. Thus, as
a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports rose
from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports also
swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or
7% of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the
suddenly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic
problems of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.         Brazil's capacity to manage the 1973-74 oil crisis was enhanced
by its strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of
its manufactured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets,
combined with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and
the opportunities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import
substitution. Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high
national growth exp-ctations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the autho-
rities were reluctr't to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted
instead toward increasing control over imports, which were held approximately
constant in nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort,
accomplished through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a
positive merchandise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current
account deficit was reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged
7.6% per year between 1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the autho-
rities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained around 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional inter-
national reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.         The rate of GDP growth rebounded to almost 6% in 1978, notwithstanding
a 2% decline in agricultural output caused by a serious drought in southern
Brazil. The loss of food production cost the economy an estimated US$1.5
billion in foreign exchange. Hence, despite a 36% nominal increase in manu-
factured and semi-processed exports, total merchandise exports rose only 4.4%
compared to a 13.8% increase in merchandise imports. The contraction of
agricultural output and rapid buildup of international reserves contributed to
price pressures, maintaining inflation at about 40% for the third consecutive
year.



- 3 -
9.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural output
was again severiely affected by a combination of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP
growth was 6.4%, a modest increase over the preceding year. High demand, the
poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in a rapid acceleration of
inflation in 1979. Inflation for the year reached 78%, the highest rate since
1964.
10.       Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs contributed also to a progressive deterioration
of Brazil's balance of payments in 1978 and 1979. Despite the continued rapid
growth of manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small
surplus in 1977 to a US$1.0 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.7 billion deficit
in 1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%, or
US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to which
about 60% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising gross interest
payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion in 1979. Conse-
quently, the deficit on current account grew from US$5.9 billion to US$9.7
billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.
11.       With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion was
provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrowings
in 1979, including bond issues, therefore totaled US$11.6 billion and US$5.0
billion, respectively, compared to US$14.1 billion and US$8.8 billion in 1978.
Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary credits, and
an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available to Brazil was
sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves to US$9.0
billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about 5-1/2 months of goods and
nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt rose to US$49.9
billion, or 24% of GDP.
12.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were
followed by new packages of measures in December 1979 and January 1980. The
most important of these measures were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro,
accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the prior deposit
requirement on imports, and the imposition of a temporary export tax on
primary products; increased restrictions on public enterprise investments,
imports and borrowing; a modification of administered credit programs which
is intended to reduce subsidies; establishment of ceilings on monetary correction
and exchange rate adjustment during 1980; and the imposition of direct controls
on credit expansion by the private banking system.



-4-
Poverty Programs
13.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of areas. Coverage
of the social security program, for example, has been expanded and extended to
the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is now covered
by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer program has
been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter system,
rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible to re-
ceive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is
almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The
urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million
loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank since 1964. A
sites and services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor
more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public
water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to attack
the poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
14.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated, and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been
undertaken to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to
initiate nuclear power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to
expand domestic coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy
conservation. While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported
energy remains a formidable problem. With oil expected to constitute US$10-12
billion (over half of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to
US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and
balance-of-payments viability continues to be a principal preoccupation of
economic decision makers.
15.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures noted
above, a number of important institutional reforms have been undertaken to
improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. These include:
the marked improvement of information flows and administrative control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report", dated October 1979.



and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of
the subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central
Bank; and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Currently under considera-
tion are the elimination of the development banking responsibilities of the
Central Bank, the abolition of the Bank of Brazil's money-creating power, and
a far-reaching reduction of fiscal incentives.
16.       The December devaluation of the cruzeiro and the accompanying trade
liberalization are intended to promote more efficient resource allocation
favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitution. Toward
this end also, many administratively complex tariff exemption schemes have
been eliminated as part of a general rationalization of the trade regime.
Although public investments may be constrained by reduced resource availabil-
ities over the next several years, priority attention will continue to be
given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture and major
import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5.5% per year in 1980-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-79. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a declining current account deficit after 1981 and high, but
declining, debt service ratios. These projections are highly sensitive, how-
ever, to petroleum prices, international interest rates, and the rate of growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high share
of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to external
events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be expected to
persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1983. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the period 1980-85
despite an expected decline in international interest rates. Thus large
service account deficits will result in continuing current account deficits
on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1982, though declining sharply there-
after. As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is projected to peak
at 6.0% in 1980 and fall steadily to 1.0% by 1985. This projection assumes that
import restraint continues to 1985, permitting a large trade surplus to appear
in 1984; alternatively imports could be accelerated as the balance-of-payments
constraint is eased, at the cost of a larger current account deficit in 1984
and beyond.
19.       Under the assumption of continued import restraint, net medium- and
long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be around US$9 million in
1980, remain in the range of US$10-11 billion from 1981 to 1983, then fall
to US$6 billion by 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be maintained at a
level of US$16-19 billion throughout the five-year period, with US$12-15
billion obtained as financial credits from private lenders. Consequently
the net debt service ratio 1/ would peak in 1980 at 60%, falling to about
39% in 1985. As a proportion of GDP total outstanding medium- and long-
term debt would reach 32% in 1982 and decline slowly thereafter.
1/   Including both public and private debt.



- 6 -
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process has been
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by its large domestic market.
Nevertheless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence
of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt indicate
that the adjustment process must go much further. The Government recognizes
the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in its investment
policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import substitution,
employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates was demonstrated in 1979 and will
continue to make projections subject to a wide margin of error. The present
scenario also depends heavily on Brazil's continued ability to expand manu-
factured exports, despite the slower anticipated growth of the world economy,
and on its continued access to international capital. A major effort is
underway to reduce dependence on foreign petroleum but significant results
will not be apparent for several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian
economy remains dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient. The task of
economic management will not be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their
ability to adjust to changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should
greatly strengthen their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration
noted in 1979, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional
terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By February 29, 1980 the Bank had made 91 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$4,469.4 million (net of cancellations), of which 46 were not yet
fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per
year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million
in FY78, and US$294.9 million in FY79. Disbursements for the first half of
FY80 amounted to US$170 million and are expected to increase during the next
few years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
February 29, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY75-FY78 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made
totalling US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in
FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million. In FY78, nine loans totalling
US$705 million were made. In FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million
were made. Loans totalling US$302 million for a water supply and sewerage
project in the Southern States, a power distribution project in Rio Grande
do Sul, and an industrial pollution control project were approved by the
Executive Directors on March 27. The documents for a US$159 million loan



for a suburban rail transport project in Porto Alegre have recently been
distributed to the Executive Directors. Work is well advanced on a rural
education project for the northeast, a systems coordination project for
ELETROBRAS, an expansion project for ELETROSUL's transmission system, and
rural development projects in Minas Gerais and Ceara.  We expect to propose
loans for these projects in the near future.
24.       Of Brazil's total (public and private) external debt outstanding
and disbursed at the end of 1979, amounting to US$49.9 billion, the Bank
held 3.6%. The Bank's share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2.0%.
In 1980, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is expected to fall very
slightly, while its share in total debt service should fall to about 1.8%.
25.       As of February 29, 1980 IFC commitments to Brazil, totalled US$499.0
million, of which US$329.8 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of the
balance of US$169.2 million, US$129.9 million represent loans and US$39.3
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of February 29, 1980 is
given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is to help
intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that
will increase productivity and income of the lowest income segments of the
population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and
to improve their living conditions. It is to these ends that the proposed
third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project is mainly directed.
Loans for water supply and sewerage in Minas Gerais, Greater Sao Paulo and
the northeast the southern states, for urban transport in five major cities,
for sites and services and low-cost housing, and for medium-sized cities develop-
ment are assisting to improve the living conditions of the urban population,
particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach low-income groups
in urban areas are in preparation including a third urban transport project,
an integrated urban development project and a multi-state water supply and
sewerage project. Previous loans for nutrition research and development,
vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension and polder
construction in the lower Sao Francisco as well as for integrated rural
development in the states of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba,
Bahia, Sergipe, and Pernumbuco were all designed to assist low-income groups
in rural areas. Additional projects designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas are in preparation, including a rural education project and several
integrated rural development projects in the northeast and northwest.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building



- 8 -
objective has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the trans-
portation sector where there has been emphasis on the selection of invest-
ments, the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of
railways' financial performance. Loans for electric power, water supply and
sewerage, industrial finance, agricultural research and extension, and urban
development also have important institution-building objectives. Under the
proposed project provision is made to strengthen COPASA through a study to
be followed by a program to reduce COPASA's administrative costs.
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since it is
based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the need
for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemicals projects
is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient domestic
production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Much of the Bank-assisted
investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is
designed to facilitate the smooth and economic flow of exports. Support of
the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a
traditional import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil in
view of the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its
internal markets. A similar objective is being achieved through the VALESUL
Aluminum Project which uses Brazil's abundant hydroelectric resources for
power and Brazil's ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is
to provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital
inflows that Brazil has needed and will continue to need for some time in
order to sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional
development objectives. Continued substantial lending by the Bank in Brazil
is regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there.
In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and commercial financial
institutions. Since 1976, eleven co-financing operations totalling more than
US$425 million have been concluded with private financial institutions and
others are in preparation.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Introduction
30.       The proposed loan to BNH would be the Bank's eighth loan for the
water supply and sewerage sector in Brazil, and the third for this purpose
in the state of Minas Gerais. Total lending to date for the sanitation sector



-9-
has been US$450 million. In 1971, two loans were made for Greater Sao Paulo,
one for US$22.0 million for water distribution and storage (Loan 757-BR) and
the other for US$15.0 million (subsequently reduced to US$12.0 million) for
sewage collection and disposal (Loan 758-BR). These two loans were assumed
by the water company of the state of Sao Paulo (SABESP) in 1974 after it had
taken over the functions of the original borrowers. The original objective
of Loan 757-BR to extend water supply services to 2.4 million people in the
municipality of Sao Paulo has been exceeded. By 1977, water services had been
extended to 3.3 million people. The project financed under Loan 758-BR suffered
initial delays. However, SABESP brought the works included under the project
to a successful completion. A combined Project Performance Audit Report has
been prepared on the first water distribution and storage project and the first
sewage collection and disposal project for Greater Sao Paulo. That report has
been sent to the government. The principal problems encountered by these
projects were managerial and institutional. These problems were resolved in
1974 by the merger of the three main local entities involved into SABESP,
which joined the national sanitation program (PLANASA) coordinated by BNH.
31.       In 1974, a loan was made to BNH for US$36.0 million (Loan 1009-BR)
for relending to the state water company of Minas Gerais for water supply and
sewerage subprojects. A second loan for US$40.0 million for Minas Gerais
followed in 1976 (Loan 1309-BR). Loan 1009-BR is 99% disbursed. The Bank has
received completion reports for 34 of the 38 sub-projects financed, and it is
expected that a Project Completion Report will be issued in FY81. Loan 1309-BR
is fully committed, and all subprojects are underway. About 40 systems in small
communities have been completed. The third Sao Paulo loan (Loan 1525-BR) for
US$110.0 million was made to BNH in early 1978 to assist in the financing of
a large sewage collection and treatment project for Greater Sao Paulo which
forms part of a priority program of water pollution control. Execution of
this project is proceeding satisfactorily. A fourth loan for US$100 milion
(Loan 1656-BR) was made to BNH in February 1979 for water supply and sewerage
projects in the northeast states of Bahia, Pernambuco, and Ceara. The first
subprojects for the capital cities have been approved and construction is underway.
However, because of some initial difficulties the project may be completed with a
one year delay. A loan for US$130 million for water supply and sewerage projects
in the southern states of Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul was
approved by the Executive Directors on March 27, 1980. Performance under the
revenue covenants has been disappointing, as government delays in approving tariff
increases have prevented the project entities from complying with their obligations.
Sector Organization
32.       Municipalities traditionally had responsibility for the provision of
water supply and sewerage services in Brazil. During the sixties, the accele-
rated urbanization, coupled with the financial, technical and managerial
inability of the municipalities to provide even minimum services, prompted
the federal and state governments to finance new water and sewerage systems
with budget grants to satisfy the most urgent needs. In this way, some
US$700 million were invested in urban and rural sanitation between 1960 and
1970. However, in 1970, the situation was far from satisfactory and was
deteriorating. Less than 60% of the urban population had public water services
and less than 30%, sewage collection services. These facts, together with



- 10 -
administrative and financial weakness of municipal governments, aggravated
by rapid urbanization, made apparent to the federal government the need to
establish a nationwide program to finance, promote, and coordinate the develop-
ment of the water supply and sewerage sector.
33.       In 1971, the Government launched PLANASA under the aegis of BNH to
increase the availability of water and sewerage services to the urban population.
The initial goals of the program were to provide water services to 80% and
sewerage services to 50% of the urban population by 1980. These goals were
revised in 1975 to establish more realistic targets for the large cities and
include the smaller communities under the program. The present goals of the
program are: to provide, by the end of 1980, facilities which have the capacity
of supplying water services to 80% of the urban population in 80% of the urban
communities (including Brazil's nine metropolitan areas); sewerage services to
all of the state capitals and main urban centers (over 50,000 inhabitants);
and some sewerage services tp smaller urban communities. In these respects,
it should be noted that the Brazilian definition of urban population includes
people living in small towns in rural areas. Over the 1971-83 period, the
Government plans to invest US$7.5 billion equivalent (in 1978 prices) in the
sector, which compares with an original estimate of US$2.5 billion (in 1971
prices).
34.       The main focus of the PLANASA program is to provide a stable source
of financing, and to help the states develop their own organization in the
water supply and sewerage sector. To enter the program, a state must sign an
agreement with BNH establishing a statewide water and sewerage company, draw
up a statewide sector investment plan and provide for state guarantee of BNH
loans. The statewide organization of the program has two major advantages.
First, it makes possible the establishment of statewide tariff structures
which permit a cross-subsidization mechanism within the state. Second, the
statewide organization derives economies of scale from centralized management
of the water supply and sewerage system.
35.       The PLANASA program is financed one-half by BNH and one-half by the
states through revolving water and sewerage funds (Fundos de Agua e Esgotos --
FAEs). BNH has set up four credit lines to finance water supply and sewer-
age projects (para 49).
The Development of PLANASA
36.       The PLANASA program is progressing well, although at a slower pace
than expected. All of the 22 states of Brazil have entered the program and
more than 2,100 municipalities all over the country have already benefitted
from it. At present, about 75% of the urban population is receiving water
supply services as compared with less than 60% of a smaller urban population
when the Government started the program in 1971. It is estimated that PLANASA's
water supply objectives will be met by 1982 or 1983. The levels of service
attained and projected for sewerage present a different picture. At present,
about 35% of the population receives sewerage services as compared with 30%
in 1971 when the program began. This slower progress of sewerage is the
result of its relatively high cost and the technical complexity of building
and operating adequate sewerage systems in some areas in Brazil. It is
unlikely that the major cities of Brazil will receive sewerage services at
the levels envisaged by PLANASA much before 1990.



- 11 -
Sector Tariffs and Legal Framework
37.       In 1975, in order to define a suitable framework for the sector,
BNH hired consultants to study the various aspects of water supply and sewer-
age tariffs and the administrative responsibilities for the provision of water
supply and sewerage services. As a result of this initiative, the Brazilian
Congress approved a tariff law for the sector on May 11, 1978. On November 6,
1978, the Government issued regulations covering the application of the law.
This legislation allows the state water companies to charge tariffs based on
the cost of service, which will enable them, if they operate efficiently, to
earn a rate of return of up to 12% on operational investments. The legislation
provides further that by 1983, state water companies (SWCs) must attain the
position where revenues cover operating and maintenance expenses and deprecia-
tion, and provide a rate of return on operating investments, after covering
these expenses, which will produce sufficient cash flow to cover debt service.
This objective is to be reached by a gradual program of tariff adjustments.
Over the 1980-82 period, each company is expected to carry out a financial
program to gradually reach the minimum return stipulated in the legislation by
1983. After an initial increase on January 1, 1979 there were delays in
granting further tariff increases until December when the Government granted
a 35% tariff increase to all SWCs as an interim measure until the Government
could study each SWC's financial requirements for the 1979-1983 period. During
1980, the Government proposes to make two semi-annual adjustments raising
tariffs up to 45%. It is not expected that tariff increases of up to 45%
would be sufficient to permit Bank loan beneficiary companies to comply with
their obligations in 1980 except for the recently approved Southern States
Project. Initial tariff increases for 1980 have been granted to all Bank loan
beneficiary companies. The first increases for Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo
were 22% and 34%, respectively, effective February 1, 1980 and the second
increase would be granted by July 31, 1980. Provided the second increase is
not less than the maximum permitted under the Government's guidelines (18.8%
for Minas Gerais and 7.9% for Sao Paulo) and inflation is close to the Govern-
ment's target, both COPASA and SABESP should be able to cover their cash
requirements in 1980. In the case of the three beneficiary companies of the
Northeast Project the initial 1980 tariff increases on April 1, ranged from
35-40%, which together with further increases on October 1, 1980 to reach the
45% maximum, would produce levels of revenue which would fall short of covering
cash operating expenses and debt service. The resulting cash deficits in 1980
would range from 9% to 18% of revenues and are expected to be covered by
advances from state governments. The Bank has agreed to waive the tariff
covenants for 1980 for the Northeast and Sao Paulo Projects subject to
receipt by the Bank of satisfactory evidence that the second tariff increases
in 1980 have been approved by August 1, 1980 for Sao Paulo and by October 1,
1980 for Bahia, Pernambuco and Ceara.
38.       The new legislation deals with some important aspects of the structure
(as distinct from the level) of tariffs. It establishes four categories of
consumers: residential, commercial, industrial, and official and stipulates a
progressive tariff system which allows for cross-subsidization between lower
and higher income consumers. Further, it establishes that water tariffs for
low-income consumers should not exceed US$4.40 per month in 1979 dollars for
water and US$6.28 per month in 1979 dollars for water supply and sewerage. On



- 12 -
the institutional side, the new legislation assigns to BNH the responsibility
for overseeing the financial situation of the companies operating in the
sector, including making recommendations to the Government for rate adjustments.
Minas Gerais, the Project Area
39.       The project covers the state of Minas Gerais, an area of 587,172 km
which represents 6.9% of Brazil's total area. Minas Gerais is the second most
populous state in Brazil with a total population in mid-1979 was estimated at
14 million, or 11.5% of Brazil's total population. Urban population represents
65% of the state's total population.  Overall population growth is at a rate
of 3.5% per annum, the urban centers at 4.5% per annum, and the metropolitan Belo
Horizonte area at 7.5%.
40.       The state of Minas Gerais is one of lower middle income.  Its
participation in national income is about 10%, or somewhat below the propor-
tion its population bears to the total population. Up to 1970, agriculture
and mining were the major economic activities. Since then the importance of
manufacturing has been increasing. Exports increased from 12% of Brazil's
total (1960-62) to 14% (1975-77); mineral ore accounts for 66% of Minas
Gerais' exports, up from 30% in the 60s, and coffee 8% (down from 41% in the
early 60s).
41.       Income distribution is skewed.  In 1976, 60% of the work force
earned the equivalent of the minimum wage or less and received only 17% of
total personal income. The reported deaths caused by diarrhetic diseases in
the state capital of Belo Horizonte are 99 per 100,000 population, well above
the average of 70 for Latin America. The reported infant mortality rate of
59 per thousand live births in the state is below the national average of 70
per thousand live births. However, in Belo Horizonte, where statistics are
more reliable, infant mortality was 116 per thousand live births in 1975, more
than double the average for Latin America. Improved water supply would play
a key role in improving these indices.
Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels
42.       The average water service level in the state is 74% for the urban
population, in line with the national average. Forty-five percent of the
urban population in the state has sewerage service, almost all in the major
cities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
43.       In June 1979 the Brazilian Government held discussions with the
Bank concerning continuation of Bank participation in the implementation of
PLANASA in the state of Minas Gerais. Project preparation was already then



- 13 -
well advanced. The project was appraised in October/November 1979. A
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Third Minas Gerais Water Supply
and Sewerage Project" (No. 2839-BR, dated April 28, 1980) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations with the
Borrower, Guarantor, State Water Company and the State Government took place
in Washington from April 14 to 18, 1980. A supplemental project data sheet,
including a timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions, is
presented in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The proposed project would, through the provision of water supply
to an additional population of 1.9 million and sanitation services to an
additional population of 1.1 million, improve the environment and health con-
ditions of the population in the state of Minas Gerais, and the city of Belo
Horizonte in particular, and would improve the financial situation of COPASA
through the establishment of adequate tariff levels.
45.       The project consists of a group of water supply and sewerage sub-
projects included in COPASA's Global Feasibility Study (EVG), to be carried
out in the state of Minas Gerais in the period 1980-84. Sixty-nine percent of
the investment is concentrated in the Belo Horizonte area. The subprojects
represent about 82% of COPASA's investment program for the project period.
The remainder of COPASA's investment program includes subprojects for cities
for which it does not yet have a concession, and subprojects which are being
completed under the Second Minas Gerais Project. The proposed Bank Loan would
finance 100% of the foreign exchange component of expenditures for procuremenit
contracts to be awarded by COPASA for eligible subprojects submitted to the
Bank between loan signature date and March 31, 1984. The project includes the
following components:
(a)  continuation of the expansion of metropolitan Belo Horizonte's
water supply system in accordance with the master plan, the major
elements of which are:
(i) development of a 2.6 m 3/sec water source at
Serra Azul consisting of a treatment plant, main
transmission line, a water intake, and a
pumping station;
(ii) construction of a dam and reservoir on the Rio das
Velhas;
(iii) construction of treated water transmission lines,
pumping stations, and water storage tanks;
(iv) expansion of the water distribution system; and
(v) production and consumption metering programs;



- 14 -
(b) continuation of the expansion of the sewerage system in metropolitan
Belo Horizonte in accordance with the master plan including main
interceptors, collectors, house connections and an oxidation pond
sewage treatment plant;
(c) construction or expansion of water supply and sewerage systems in
about 30 medium-size cities;
(d)  construction of water supply systems in approximately 150 small
communities;
(e) consulting services for detailed engineering design, and construction
supervision; and
(f) studies for water source protection, reduction of COPASA's
administrative costs, and pollution control.
The Borrower
46.       The Borrower (BNH) was established in 1964 as a financially and
administratively autonomous institution. Since 1967, it has been under the
overall responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. BNH's main activi-
ties are to finance, through intermediary institutions, low- and medium-income
housing, urban development and sanitation programs. A Board of Directors
and Executive Committee administer the institution. BNH has eleven regional
agencies to coordinate its activities at the state level. BNH's principal
source of funds is the Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servico (FGTS), a
national indemnity fund. Its other sources of funds include interest and
principal repayments on outstanding loans and interest on national treasury
bonds. Net receipts of the FGTS increased from US$424.4 million equivalent
in 1971 to US$1.7 billion equivalent in 1978 and total funds available for
investment increased from US$0.7 billion equivalent to US$3.4 billion equiv-
alent over the same period. BNH's financial position is sound and its
resources are expected to be sufficient to carry out its planned investment
program.
47.       In September 1967, BNH established what is now called the Operations
Division for the Sanitation Finance System (COSAN), which is responsible for
water and sewerage activities. COSAN consists of three divisions responsible
respectively for the review and approval of each SWC's water supply and sewerage
investment program, the supervision of the Technical Supervisory Agencies (OTs)
which have been retained for each state by BNH to review project design and assist
in supervision and construction, and the authorization of disbursements and
monitoring of financial performance of the SWCs. Project technical review
and project supervision are carried out by the 11 BNH regional offices each
of which is responsible for sector investment programs in one or more states.
These offices are a microcosm of the COSAN Department in BNH headquarters and
operate under well-defined guidelines. The functions of the offices include
supervision of loan agreements between BNH and the SWCs, control of disburse-
ments, updating of physical and disbursement schedules of projects, monitoring
of the performance of the FAEs and the OTs, and supervision of the SWCs'
operations, technical assistance and training programs.



- 15 -
48.       Prior to 1975, the PLANASA program did not develop as expected, due
to weak organization and management in many of the SWCs, underestimated
project costs, poor engineering studies, overoptimistic scheduling, and a
shortage of materials and equipment. In addition, COSAN's activities were
centralized at BNH headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, where incomplete information
was received from the SWCs, further delaying project review and approval by
overloaded staff. In early 1976, BNH issued new regulations decentralizing
PLANASA and delegating more responsibility and authority to the regional
offices in order to speed up implementation. Under the new tariff legislation,
BNH requires the SWCs to prepare integrated investment programs and financing
plans and the quality of the planning and investment programming has greatly
improved. Consideration will be given to the possibility of Bank sector loans
for water supply and sewerage once BNH strengthens its project appraisal and
supervision capability enough to operate independently. Technical assistance
to assist BNH in achieving this objective is to be provided through the
Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
Lending Procedures
49.       Under the project, BNH would make subloans equivalent to US$223.0
million for subprojects in the state of Minas Gerais under three different
credit lines: the basic line for water supply and sewerage projects in
medium and large cities, and FINEST II and III for small community programs.
These loans would be partially financed with the proposed US$139.0 million
Bank loan, the remainder being financed with BNH's own resources. Under
the basic line of credit, BNH finances 50% of subproject costs. It
lends to a financial agent, Banco de Credito Real de Minas Gerais (BCRMG);
BCRMG onlends the BNH funds together with an equal amount from the state's
water supply and sewerage revolving fund (FAE) to the beneficiary, COPASA.
FAE resources are obtained from allocations from the state's annual tax
revenues, interest and loan amortization from COPASA, and from BNH's supple-
mentary financing programs. Both BNH and FAE loans are denominated in standard
monetary units (UPC) which are revalued quarterly for inflation in accordance
with changes in the national treasury bond index. 1/ The terms of BNH loans
are 4% interest (to BCRMG which onlends to COPASA at 5%), grace periods of
one to four and one-half years, and amortization ranging from 18 years
(water supply) to 30 years (sewerage). BNH's relatively long amortization
periods reflect the useful lives of the subprojects to be financed. FAE loans
are at 4% interest to COPASA and other terms equal to BNH funds. In addition,
BNH charges COPASA various fees and levies equal to about 3% of the loan.
Maturities of BNH loans exceed the maturity of the Bank loan, and thus BNH's
debt service payments to the Bank would exceed recoveries by BNH from COPASA.
1/   This index is also used for asset revaluation.  In 1979 the index was in-
creased by 30 percentage points less than inflation. In early 1980, the
Government announced, as a part of a strategy to curtail the exceptionally
high rate of inflation (which for 1979 reached 77%), that ORTN correction
for 1980 would not exceed 45% irrespective of actual inflation. In the
same spirit, the Government announced that devaluation of the cruzeiro
would not exceed 40% in 1980, likewise irrespective of the difference
between domestic and international inflation. These matters will be closely
monitored by the Bank as a part of the dialogue which the Bank is maintain-
ing on overall economic and sector policies.



- 16 -
Also, BNH's onlending interest rate is lower than the rate payable to the
Bank. Finally, there is a possibility of loss for BNH if the exchange rate
were to move by more than the rate of monetary correction. Nevertheless,
BNH's financial position is expected to be strong enough to absorb such
shortfalls without difficulty.
50.       One of BNH's supplementary credit lines is FINEST I, which was
set up to assist the states to meet their obligations to finance 50% of sub-
project costs. If the state's tax revenues are not sufficient to cover 50% of
subproject costs, the state can borrow the balance from BNH under FINEST I.
The terms and conditions of FINEST I loans are essentially the same as those
of the basic credit line, except that loans are made to the states rather than
to the SWCs. The proposed Bank loan would not be used for FINEST I because
this would result in the Bank's financing more than 29% of a subproject's cost.
51.       Under FINEST II, BNH provides supplemental financing for urban
projects up to an amount equivalent to that which the state allocates to
small communities. BNH finances 100% of subprojects costs. Under FINEST III
BNH finances 50% of costs of subprojects for small communities, with the
state financing the other half from its own resources. Under FINEST II and
III the interest rate to the state is 2% below the normal rate of interest.
FINEST II and III allows COPASA to step up its investment in small communities
without unduly impairing its financial positions.
The Beneficiary
Organization
52.       The Beneficiary and executing agency for the project will be Compan-
hia do Saneamento de Minas Gerais, S.A. (COPASA), whose headquarters are located
in Belo Horizonte, the state capital. COPASA is owned by the state government
and has a Board of Directors appointed by the state governor for a period of
four years. Current management was appointed in March 1979. Apart from
the president, who is the chief executive officer, each director is the
working head of one of the functional departments. COPASA's organizational
structure has evolved with the assistance of consultants, and has departments
for project planning and construction, technical operations, administration,
research and finance.  Management is satisfactory.
53.       COPASA and the state government establish the priorities for the
extension of water supply and sewerage services in the state. Engineering
studies and design as well as supervision of works are executed mainly through
local consultants, who are satisfactory. COPASA's engineering unit, the Techni-
cal Supervisory Agency (OT) and BNH's regional office review designs and monitor
construction. Construction activities are carried out by local contractors, who
are experienced and capable. Projects have suffered some delays in implementa-
tion in the past but project programming and control procedures are being
strengthened to handle the increased volume of construction in the period 1980-84.
Technical operations are satisfactory, especially in view of the difficulties
caused by wide geographic dispersion of small municipalities. A program would
be carried out with the objective of reducing unaccounted for water to 20% in
the Belo Horizonte area and to 25% in those cities with full consumption
metering by December 31, 1983 (Section 5.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). By



- 17 -
September 30, 1980 COPASA would complete a study of its administrative costs
which have grown rapidly in recent years. After receiving comments from the
Bank and BNH, and in any case not later than January 1, 1981 COPASA would put
into effect a program for reducing administrative costs (Section 3.10 and
Schedule 1, Part D(2) of the draft Loan Agreement). COPASA's training program
is appropriate to requirements.
54.       COPASA's commercial operations (billings, collections and meter
maintenance) are satisfactory, as well as finance and accounting. All three
divisions report to the Finance Director. COPASA has an internal auditor,
retains independent external auditors, and is subject to audits by BNH external
auditors.
Financial Performance
55.       COPASA's financial performance under the revenue covenant incorporated
in the previous two Bank loans was less than satisfactory. Progressive improve-
ments were achieved through 1978, but in 1979, revenues only covered 47% of
COPASA's debt service. To improve COPASA's finances the water and sewerage
tariffs would be set and maintained at levels which would comply with the
tariff legislation by 1983 (para. 37) (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The federal and state governments and BNH would support and assist COPASA to
meet the revenue covenant (Sections 4.05 and 6.02 of the draft Loan Agreement
and Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). It would be an event
of default under the loan if any event takes place or action occurs including
the setting or adjustment of tariffs, which would materially and adversely
affect the financial condition of BNH or COPASA (Section 8.01(d) of the draft
Loan Agreement). In 1980 tariffs would be increased by up to 45% and in the
two subsequent years would rise gradually in real terms so as to achieve the
levels required by 1983. The proposed tariff increases would be submitted to
the Bank for comment before their introduction (supplemental letter). Con-
tinued disbursement of the loan after December 31, 1981 would be conditional
upon COPASA's tariffs having been increased in real terms during 1981 (Section
2.02(d)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement). The revenue covenants for the pre-
vious two loans (1009-BR and 1309-BR) would be amended to conform with the
proposed covenant (Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       Financial projections prepared for COPASA, based on gradual increases
in tariffs in conformity with the revenue covenant and in compliance with
the provisions of the tariff legislation, indicate that in 1980 and subsequent
years COPASA will be able to meet its cash requirements, and could finance a
portion of its investment from internally generated resources in 1982 and
thereafter.
57.       COPASA's water tariff structure is satisfactory.  However, sewerage
tariffs are now expressed as a percentage of the water charge and are not cost
related. COPASA would prepare with BNH a proposal subject to the approval of
the Bank for tariffs for sewage collection and treatment services, including a
proposal for putting the tariffs into effect. BNH would furnish this proposal
to the Bank for comment not later than September 30, 1981. Not later than
December 31, 1981, COPASA would present a request to the appropriate tariff
authorities for tariff adjustments, based on the agreed proposal (Section 5.08
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
58.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$446 million equiv-
alent net of taxes with a foreign exchange component of US$139 million equiv-
alent. The cost estimate includes, on average, 10% of base project cost for
physical contingencies. Engineering and technical assistance consulting
services for COPASA total 4,500 man-months and their cost is expected to
average US$6,000 per man-month. Price escalation of 7% p.a. has been applied
to the base cost and physical contingencies expressed in UPCs.
59.       The financing plan for the project would consist of subloans from
BNH totalling US$223.0 million equivalent, with the remainder of project costs
financed by the state's revolving fund (FAE) and state capital contributions for
the small community schemes. The proposed Bank loan would finance US$139 mil-
lion of the BNH subloans for approved subprojects under its basic and FINEST
II and III credit lines, representing 100% of the foreign exchange costs.  The
increase in the additional working capital requirements of COPASA amounting to
US$58 million, would be met by internally generated funds. The federal and
state governments and BNH would provide any additional financing that may be
needed for the project (Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and
Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government of Minas Gerais
would provide whatever funds and other facilities are needed for the operation
and maintenance of completed subprojects (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Execution and Monitoring
60.       COPASA would execute the project during the period 1980-84.  The
construction schedules have been discussed with COPASA and BNH for sub-
projects in the larger cities included in the project, and are satisfactory.
Schedules for subprojects in other towns would be prepared annually during
project execution. COPASA would retain consultants for the design of indi-
vidual subprojects. BNH's OT would carry out the technical review of sub-
projects and BNH would carry out the financial and economic analysis. BNH
and the OT would supervise the execution of the project.
61.       Subprojects for the metropolitan Belo Horizonte region, representing
about 69% of total investment, were reviewed in detail during appraisal and
found technically sound and the least-cost alternative in each case. Included
among these are the subprojects related to the development of a new production
source in Serra Azul and the construction of a dam and reservoir on the Rio das
Velhas, both near Belo Horizonte. COPASA will carry out a study on the measures
needed to protect the catchment area of the Serra Azul Reservoir and upon its
completion carry out the recommendations contained therein to the extent they
shall be agreed with BNH and the Bank (Section 3.09 and Schedule 1, Part D(1)
of the draft Loan Agreement). Since construction of the dam would flood a
small 3 megawatt hydroelectric plant owned by Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais
(CEMIG) it would be transferred to the site of the new dam. The state would carry
out a study by June 30, 1981 to apportion the responsibility for the transfer
cost between CEMIG and COPASA (Section 6.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Bank would review all subprojects for medium-size cities and small communities
costing US$2.0 million equivalent or more (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan



- 19 -
Agreement). Subprojects costing less than US$2.0 million would be approved
by BNH subject to ex post facto review by the Bank on a selective basis. The
delegation of approval authority to BNH for subprojects under US$2.0 million
is consistent with its project appraisal capabilities.
62.       COPASA would submit to the Bank five-year financial projections
before March 31 each year (Section 5.05(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
By September 30, 1980, COPASA would modify the format of its progress reports
furnished to the Bank under the First and Second Projects to include a system
of monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank (Section 5.09(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Selection Criteria
63.       Each subproject would have to meet the following criteria:  (a) it
would have to be included in COPASA's five-year investment plan, as revised
each year with the approval of BNH and the Bank; (b) it would have to
represent the least-cost solution for providing the service to a given com-
munity. In addition, in the case of subprojects to be carried out in medium-
size or large cities, the internal financial rate of return would have to be
at least equal to the average cost of capital to COPASA. Discount rates to be
used in the economic analysis would be agreed between BNH and the Bank before
the first subproject is submitted for Bank consideration. Subprojects for
medium-size and large cities that do not meet these criteria would be eligible
financing only if additional social and economic justification is provided and is
satisfactory to the Bank. Finally, each subproject would have to be designed in
accordance with sound engineering practices; in the case of small communities,
subprojects would have to comply with BNH's engineering guidelines for small
communities, which are acceptable, and the subproject per capita cost would not
exceed US$180 equivalent. If the per capita cost exceeded US$180, the sub-
project would only be eligible for financing if it were redesigned in accor-
dance with lower acceptable standards or stages so as to fulfill this criterion.
If after redesign, the subproject still did not meet this financial criterion,
it would be eligible for Bank financing only if acceptable economic and social
justification were presented to the Bank (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). BNH and COPASA would ensure that subprojects are selected in accordance
with the agreed-upon criteria (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
These selection criteria are identical to those of the recently approved
Southern States Project.
Procurement and Disbursements
64.       All contracts with estimated values exceeding US$400,000 equiv-
alent for equipment and US$3.0 million for civil works would be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Manufacturers of equipment whose bids contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid would be given a margin
of preference of 15% or the applicable import duties, whichever is lower.
All other contracts of smaller size would be procured under locally advertised
competitive bidding, under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. These pro-
cedures would allow foreign suppliers and contractors to bid. Due to the
large number of contracts expected, Bank prior review would be limited to
contracts for equipment over US$1.0 million and for civil works over US$4.0
million. Since virtually all the equipment and materials for the project are



- 20 -
manufactured in Brazil and available at competitive prices, most supply con-
tracts are expected to be won by local suppliers. The civil works contracts
are also expected to be won by local contractors. Consultants would be re-
cruited on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
65.       Bank disbursements would consist of the reimbursement of 58% of BNH
disbursements on its subloans for eligible subprojects (equivalent to the esti-
mated foreign exchange cost) when BNH finances 50% of the subproject cost under
BNH's regular program, and under its subprogram for small communities (FINEST
III). Under its subprogram for the supplemental financing of small communities
where BNH provides loans equivalent to 100% of the subproject cost (FINEST II),
Bank disbursements would consist of the reimbursement of 29% of BNH disburse-
ments. Disbursements would be in accordance with certificates of expenditures
to be submitted by BNH to the Bank. While BNH subloans include an amount to
cover interest during construction of each subproject, these expenditures would
not be eligible for Bank financing. The documentation in support of the state-
ment of expenditures would be retained by COPASA and made available for inspec-
tion during the course of project supervision and would be reviewed by BNH's
external auditors. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1985 (Sections 2.02(a) and 2.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits
66.       The project is designed to provide the least-cost solution to the
problem of providing water supply to 1.9 million new consumers and increase
urban water supply service levels from 73% at the end of 1979 to 80% in 1984
in the cities served by COPASA. The project would also improve water supply
service to about 1.5 million of Belo Horizonte's existing consumers. The
project would extend sewerage services to about 1.1 million persons and
increase urban sewerage service levels from 27% at the end of 1979 to 36% in
1984 in the cities served by COPASA. The facilities constructed for both
water and sewerage would allow continued expansion of connections throughout
the 1980 decade. Because the area around Belo Horizonte is rich in iron ore,
there are several mining operations which discharge liquid waste directly into
the city's major water resources, the Rio das Velhas and the Rio Paraopeba.
Given the importance of protecting these resources for the general population,
the state of Minas Gerais with the assistance of the federal government would
carry out a study which would inter alia compare the cost of mining pollution
control vis-a-vis additional water treatment costs. Not later than December 31,
1981 the results and recommendations of the study would be furnished to the
Bank, and thereafter the recommendations contained in such study would be
carried out as they may be agreed with the federal government, the state
government, BNH and the Bank (Section 6.03 and Part d(3) of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Rate of Return on Investment
67.       The rate of return for the Bank financed investment program has
been calculated using revenues as a proxy for economic benefits. The invest-
ments include the cost of the Serra Azul Dam (financed by Loan 1309-BR) because
it is a basic element in the water supply production in this project. The



- 21 -
calculations use a shadow exchange rate of 1.3 for the foreign exchange costs
to represent its opportunity cost. The rates of return are based on tariff
levels to be achieved during the project execution period which are above
present tariffs. The estimated rate of return on COPASA's wa.er supply
investments is 7%; for water and sewerage combined the return would be 8Z.
68.       The rates of return are considered acceptable.  They indicate that
average tariffs are expected to be somewhat below long-run average incremental
costs discounted at an estimated opportunity cost of clpital of 11%.  Tariffs
on incremental water consumption (above the basic 10 m /month block of consump-
tion) are expected to be equal or exceed the long-run average incremental cost
of water for the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area in 1982 and the total
project in 1985. Rates of return, based on revenues, understate the real
economic return as they exclude important benefits which are not meaningfully
quantifiable. Improvements in public health, in particular lower infant
mortality, increased labor productivity, environmental improvements from
increased sewage collection, infrastructure for economic development, and
improved service to existing consumers are not reflected in tariffs, and
provide evidence that the project's economic and social benefits may well
exceed its financial benefits. These considerations confirm the conclusion
that the project is economically justified.
Impact on the Poverty Group
69.       The calculation of the direct impact of the project on the poverty
group defined as families whose monthly income is equal to or less than three
times the minimum wage (US$283 in November 1979) was based on a social survey
made for the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area. For other cities and towns
no estimates were available. Of the 950,000 water supply beneficiaries of the
project in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area about 380,000 would be from
the poverty group. Of the 1.1 million sewerage beneficiaries of the project
in Belo Horizonte about 304,000 would be from the poverty group. It is
estimated that investments directly benefitting the poor would amount to US$98
million, equivalent to 22% of project costs. BNH is carrying out studies on
low-cost technology options to extend services to low-income areas where
conventional systems are not technically feasible or economically affordable
by the users. BNH would make available to COPASA the results of these studies
and its proposals for applying the techniques adopted on the basis of such
results to Minas Gerais (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Technical
assistance to BNH for these studies is being provided through the UNDP Global
Program on Low-Cost Water and Sanitation Techniques involving several countries,
for which the Bank is the executing agency.
Affordability (,f Project Services
70.       The existing monthly charges for minimum consumption of water of
US$1.67 and for water supply and sewerage of US$2.85 are well within government
guidelines (para. 38). These low tariffs are possible because of the cross-
subsidization provided in the tariff structures. Water should be considered
affordable for most poor families at these prices, particularly since minimum
diameter residential water and sewerag,- conraet-ns are Tprovided free of cost.



- 22 -
Project Risks
71.       The proposed project involves the administrative risks associated
with the carrying out of complex and large investment programs by the state
water company. Not all of the subprojects are yet firmly identified, nor
would all of them be subject to prior appraisal by Bank staff. However, the
project execution experience of COPASA indicates that it has the capacity to
implement the project. The subproject preparation and eligibility criteria
developed should ensure the soundness of the investments undertaken. The
project involves a financial risk related to the need for adequate and
timely tariff increases which are essential for COPASA to attain and maintain
financial viability. This risk has been reduced by the passage of national
tariff legislation, and provision would be made for close monitoring of
tariff increases by BNH and the Bank. There is also the physical risk asso-
ciated with the construction of major dams. The Bank had a dam expert review
all aspects of the Serra Azul Dam during appraisal and his report concluded
that minimal risks are involved. A similar precaution would be taken for the
Rio das Velhas Dam when its design is completed. To further minimize the risk
associated with the construction of this dam BNH would form a panel of experts,
satisfactory to the Bank, to review the detailed engineering studies, as well
as the design proposal for the dam and reservoir. BNH and COPASA would
conduct periodic reviews to determine if the design of the dam or reservoir
needs modification during construction, and they would carry out periodic
inspections of the dam and reservoir thereafter (Section 4.07 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional da
Habitacao, the state water company of Minas Gerais and its state government
as well as the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the supplemental letter on tariffs, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
75.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 28, 1980
Washington, D.C.                                        by  Ernest Stern



-23-
ANNEX I
BRAZIl. - SOCA.L  NIXCATOIS DA:A S9KI
1AZIL                        tE17EUCE 0POUPS (ADJUSTED ALGES
UIID AL'A (THOIUSAND SO. YT.)                                                       -       fOSS _C_ _T ES_ I _ATE_)
-OTAL            3512.0                                                         S.&I         SAKE      NEX  UICaE9R
ACuIC0LTOR.4     2026.3                                    MOST 31Cr?         =EOGRAfIC    t2iCoNS        O4C0rK
1960  .kb   1970 lb !2STIMIEAt l       REGION       09U? '3   cG0UF UP
CX? PER CAPI9A  uSS)                     320.0        580.0     LS70.0            1124.4      19S2.6       3075.3
GRG1 CONSUMPTI0N PER CAPITA
(rKCLZAMS OF C01L 71VA1jfr)           332.3         .74.0      731.0            943.1      16S6.7       2518.i
PO?P7LAIMCN AND VITAL S-ATISTICS
POPULATION, V7D-TE&   MILLIONS         71.5         95.2      116.1
URBA  POPULATION  P21C2T O? TOTAL) 46.1              55.        50.J7             59.3        51.2         72.1
7 OPCI=lON P?ILJTIONs
FO7OLATiwN    TAR 2500 (C=LI709N)                           200.0
STACONHAY POPV1AXION  (0fL;ONS)                             341.0
YTER STATIONARYT '3PO?7AION tS UACEZD                      2075
POPVX.AT7911 OENSIT'
PER  ~,:  A M.                        3.0          11.0       14.0             23.5         9.2          33.5
U  30. iN. LCICOtlTOL LAMD            4.0         49.0       57.0              i0.5       100.5          91.3
POPU7MATZ1 AGE STR:CTRE (PMCE)T7
3-i. "!S.                            63.6         42.6       41.1              .0.3        S5.           13.3
15-6. IlS.                            53.8         5S.3       55.1              54..        56.3         57.5
65 Y2S. AMD AOVE                       2.6          3.1         3.2              3.9         5.            5.7
POPULAIO8 GRCOV  RATZ (PECENT)
TOTA.L                                3.0          2.9        2.9               2.4         1.7          2.1
URBAN                                 5.5           *.8        4. 5             3.7          3.0
CilUDE lSTH RATE  PER THOUSAND)        40.0          38.0       36.0              32.3        27.5         31..
CRMOD E SATH 9.AE  PQ THOUSAND)         11.0          9.0        9.0               8.5         9.1          S.2
CROSS UPqOD7C-.ION RATE                  2.6          2.6        2.4               2.6         1.8          1.9
?AMILC PLANNING
ACCPTOS. A tAL. 'MOUSA40S)             ..         L11.0     203.6
OSDS  PUtCENT OF K4ARRIED WOl)    ..                L.6        ..              17.7
FOOD MND 3I7tTION
IMDEX C7 FOOD ?RODUCT.ON
PRU -CA2IA (1969- 1-100)             99.6        L02.0      120.0              99.4       .02.0         98.7
PER CAPITA SUP?LY Or
CALW:IE  'PrK"T OF
REaOulpIDITS                      102.0        104.0      105.0             107.0       120.9        112.7
MOT%1745 .CAM5 ?U  7At)             61.0         64.0       62.1              60.4        30.9         70.3
OF  HCtCC ANT-MAL AND PULSE        38.0         39.0       33.6              2S.3        31.3
CHILD (AGES L-4) 7UITAS- RAZE           L3.D         .0.0        9.0              6.7          5.1          2.5
REAL"3
LLPt =PTC.A.4CY AT Bt   CYTAS)    57.0              61.0       62.0             63.6        65.6          68.7
INFAT 9OT.4AL.L' 'tATl 7PmS
THOUSAND)                                 ..           .          ..              76.1        S.5         :0.3
ACCESS TO SAP! W0ATSR IPRCEET OF
POFU LATION l
TOTAL                                  ..          56.3       77. L            63.4        69.4          73.9
URBAN                                  ..          77.'      S8.3              79.5        3S.1         94.6
NURAL                                   *         29.0       56.8              38. 6       43. 0        64.6
ACCESS TO Z=&E-TA DISPOSAL :PtECDIT
o0  POP9LATOTl0)
tOTAL                                             59.9       ;4.3              S8.8        70.1
U.3AN                                  ..         36..       83.7              37.          8 38.3
RUR1AL                                 ..         26.5       31.7               6. 5       33.2
POPULATION PER PtYSICIAX             3600.0       1910.0      1650.0           1831.9      133-.Z         981.3
?PC?LATION PER T51ING PTRSON             ..      32;G.J          ..            933.7       ;6$.0        397.3
.OPELAItON PER SOSPITAL 3G;
TOTAL                               75.:        260.0      260.0             363.-       .97.6         60.6
MAN                                    ..           ..         ..             279..       260.2
R7A,L                                  ..           ..         ..            L140.9      1055.0
ADISISSIONS PER 3OSP!TAL 3ED              ..         18.0        ..              2S.7        L7.3          19.2
AVERACE SIZE 7F  005e150.LD
TAL                                   5.1          4.8         ..9       S       .0    .     . 7
3R3AY                                  ..          4..6       4. 7              4.8
RURAL                                  ..          5.2        5.3               5.3         5.1
AVtLACI 4M2ER. 7?   9RSONS P?  ROOK
7OTAL                                  ..           1.1        L.L/f            1.3         L..
755AN                                  ..          1.0         1. 21            1. 3        1.2 
AURAL                                  ..                      1.2L.29          1.5         1..
ACCESS SO ELECTRlCtTY PEC7NT
OF oWE.LLINGSI
0OCAL                                38.7         67.6       63.0              54.3        00.0
93AN                                   *-          5-        i4. i0 I.                     35.l
WRIAL                                  ..          8.         9.Z



-24-                                               ANNEX I
Pine. 2
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INICAT0RS DA-A SHEET
BRAZIL                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AZR.AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTI.ATE) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HICHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPRIC   LNCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIYARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        83.0       90.0            107.3      101.7        107.6
!1ALE                97.0         83.0      89.0            109.1       110.0
FDMALE               93.0         83.0      90.0            107.4       92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0        27.0       rB.0            40.5        5L.2        39.7
MALE                 11.0         27.0      17.0             40.4       56.4
WEIALE               10.0         27.0      20.0             39.0       43.7
VOCATIONAL EROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  19.0           17.0      47.OL&           18.5       18.3
PUPOL-TMAC3ER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0        28.0       22.0            37.1        27.1
SECONDARY                          13.0        13.0       11.0            17.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACT RATE (PERCET)         61.0        66.2       75.7            77.4        36.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATiCN                          7.0        25.0       45.0            29.1        53.4        68.1
RADIO RECEIVEBS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.0       126.0      158.0           172.1       225.9       210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         18.0        66.0      100.0            67.9       102.6       117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERE_, CI1DO'LATION PER
THOUSAND POPFLATION                  54.0        37.0       39.0            76.1        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0          1.9        2.6             4.2         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22700.0      29400.0  34100.0
FEMALE (PERCN)                     17.5        20.4       21.6            21.5        24.5        27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.9        45.6       42.0            30.2        28.9        23.8
INDOSRfY  PERCENT)                 14.8        18.3       20.0            23.8        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.0        31.6       31.5            30.9        33.8        40.1
MALE                                 52.7        50.3       49.5            47.3        51.3        55.7
FUtALE                               11.2        12.8       13.6            13.3        16.3        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPEDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.5       1.4              1.5        1.3         1.0
LNCOME DISTRIMITION
PERCEXT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED 3Y
RICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSECOLDS      ..          ..         ..            23.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSENOLDS  60.0         63.5       62.0            58.7        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8          3.2        2.8             2.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCEUT OF aOUSEHOLDS   10.8          9.0        9.4             9.9        11.0
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED A35OLUEE POVERXT INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..           265.6
RURAL                                                    130.0           185.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                   465.0            396.3       550.0
RURAL                                 .                  332.0           308.1       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOfM LE8EL (PERCENT)
UJRAN                                                                     35.2
MTRAL                                                                     46.6
. oc available
4ot appl1cabl*.
/a    'he adjusted group averages for ech indicstor are populacton-veghted geomtric means, excluding the extreme
values of che  tndicacor and che sost onpulated councry in each group.  Coverage of councres among ch.
indicators depends ou availabili:y of data and is ooc uniform.
/b    Unless ochervise noted. data for 1960 refer Co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, becween 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate. between 1974 and 1977.
'c    Lacin America S Caribbean;   /d  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1974);   Ie ilgh :ncoe
(over S2500 par capita. 1976);  /f  1972;  /a  Beginnrin  1973, duration of general educacion reduced
from 7 co 4 7ears, cherefore daca say noc be comparable to chose of earlier years.
Most  ecent Estimate of 024P per capita 1A for 1978.
August. 1979



-25-
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                     Page '
Note:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the mnst
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data.
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Expoerars and indicators of access to water sod excretea disposal, housing, iocomo distri.btion and poverty arc
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thronand sq. kh)                                                              Population por hospital bed - total, urhon. sod  curM    Populurti- (total
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                         urban, sod rural) divided by their respective o.mher of hospital boos
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialioed hospital aod ro-
or permacently fer crops, pastures, mackht and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation  centers.  Hospitals are establishmnots poco..ently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                             at least one physician.  Establish-ents providing principally custodi.l
caro are not included. Rural honpita a, however, include health ansd -,eO-
GNP PER CAPITA (01S) - GNP psr capita astimaeur     at eurroet mcrket prices,               cal centers net pernanextly stafOod by a physician (bat by s nodioul  s-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sistant, narco, midwife, etc.) ehich offer sn-patient  ctomm.odat_-o and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range xf medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total onuber of adli-olcox to -o d-c-bcres
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleou, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal olectricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                   HOUSING
Average nice of household (persons per houehod) -tota, urban, and rurl -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A household consists of a group of individuals who shsre living qoarters
Total populatisn, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if sot available,                  asd their main orals.  A boarder or lidgot nay or cay net be ir-loded t-
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     hold vary.
tion; different definitioss of urban areas may affect somparability                   Average  un.ber of persons pee roon - total, arbia, and rural - Aversgernvr
of data among countries.                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conunotir-al
Population density                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Swellings exclude non-per-an.nt otrut-treo and
Per  sq. kb. - 'lid-yese population per square kilo.eter (100 hectares)                   onccu-pied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. k.s agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Cunventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as  cerce-tage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years sod over) as percentages of mid-              EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrclloent ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                   Primary school - total, and female - Total asd fenale esollment rf all apes
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of rospectivelv prim.ary srhool-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; narmally includes cb.ldren aged 6-11 years but adjuateo  for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                      different lengths of primary education; for csntrc-,s with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                    cation enrollment may erceed 100 percent since some pupilo ore below or
1970 and fiCe-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondarv school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year aritheetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tmon requires at least four years of approved primary instroctlon; pro-
and fie-yoar average ending in 1975 far most recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or ceachec trairing instrucrions for pupils
Gross repraductian rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; c-rrespcndence courses arc geoerally
in her normal reproductive pertod if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility eaten; Usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                 Vccational errollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions  on-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         clude technical, indurstial, or other programs which operate independentlv
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or an departments of secondary institutiors.
acceptoes of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-tea-her ratio - primary, ard secondary - Toeta  tudents enrclled in
planning program.                                                                       primary and seconcary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - usee  s (percent of married women) - Percentage of                      sponding levels.
maeied women of child-bearing age (15-44 yeaso) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adultt  (ahlr to road and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population cged ]5 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=1C0) - Index number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commoedities.                                    seating less than eight pezrsons; excludes ambulances, boarsen and military
Per .apita supply of calorien  (percent of -equir-eaers) - Conputed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand popolation) - All types of -eceivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise doneatic production, imports less               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population: excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stork.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years ca.en reg-ecrat-i- of radio sets was in
qua.tities used in food procensing, and leases in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent yeses may not be co-parabls since r.ost countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on pFysiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
.el activity and health connidering envirmnental temperature, body                   TV receises (pee tbhusand PoPslatcon) - TV recei-ers fic  broadcast to geners
weights, age and see distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousand population; eocludes -nli-ensed TV receivers ic  -aus-
cent for waste at household level.                                                      tries and in years when registration of TV net. was in effec:.
Per caPita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content af per                  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Showe teb  average. ire's-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined au                    tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a p-riodloal p,ili-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted prinarily to recording general news.  't is considored to
a minimum allowance of 60 gramn of total pr-tein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four tin-o a week.
Of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams sheuld be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Baned on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                   sold during the year, including admissiona to drive-in cinemas and mobilo
23 grams of animal protein an an average for the world, proposed by                     units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EMlPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grama per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - icoonnically active persons, including ored
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                 forces and unemployed but excluding housewises, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                              tions in various countries are not -orparable.
Ferale (percent) - treale labor force as percentage of total loabo force.
HEALTH                                                                                  Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (yearn) - Average number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (pesent) -- Ltbo  force in  niniog, construction, manufaeturing usd
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                  Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
axe year nf age per thousand live birhta.                                               -e.cl.   labor frcef   an pe-contoges of their respcctive populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                  These are  LO's adjusted participation rates reilectiog ace-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                    structure af the population, and Snag tims trend.
safe water supply (inclndes treated sarface wterse  or untreated but                 Eononmic dependency ratio - Ratia cf populatia    .lodr 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group sf 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
Is an urban area a public fountain or stasdpsst loc-ted not mare                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meter. from a house nay be considered as being within rea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or combers of the household do not have to                     of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Across to excreca dips.sal  o(eroent of population) -          total, urban, and      EItimated absolute poverty income level (t S$ per capita)   urboe and rue.,: -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excereta                     Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a miccrc-
disposal as percentages of their respective papulations.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-fiod requiresents is cot
disposal may include the collection sed disposal, with or without                       affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                   Estimated relative poverty income level (Df$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that income level lens  than oc-third
Pooslation Per physician - Population divided by nmaber of practiring                      per capits paerscal miose of the  ,ountry.
physicians qualified from  a medical school at university level.                     Estimated population below poverty income level _(ercent) - or-au  and rurol -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of populotion (urban and rural) who ore either "-bsolutr poor" or
practicing mate -nd female gradusate nomes, practical curses, and                       "telotivr poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Ec.om.c. i  and Sorial Pats Division
fE-noec Analysis and P-ojc-:ice  Dop-t-Ien



-26-                                                  ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                          Page 4
Population:       122.7      (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,633  (1979)
Amount                          Average Ai 1ual Increase (%)                    Share of GDP at Market Prince  (%1
Indicat-r                                          (million US$ earrent)                     (at censtant 1970 prireeS                              (at turrent eritue)
1979                          1965-70      1970-75      1975-80                  1965      1970      1975      1979
National A-unuts
Grons dome-ti  ptoduucta                               206,043                            7.7         10.6          5.8                   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                                            19,462                            1.9          5.7          4.3                    13.2       0.2       8.7       9.5
Industry                                               65,583                            9.2         11.6          6.1                    27.1      29.1      32.6     31.8
Servic-s                                               87,636                            8.0         10.7          5.8                    42.9      43.0     41.3      42.5
Consumption                                             163,739                            7.7          9.8          6.1                    75.9      76.9      79.6      79,5
Gross invnstment                                         46,530                            9.4         14.6          4.6                    22.0      23.5      25.4      22,6
Enporto of goods and NfS                                 15,245                            8.2         11.2          6.2                     7.4       6.6       7.4       7,4
Imports of goods and NtS                                 19,471                           14.5         17.2          1.5                     5.3       7.0      11.4       9.5
Gto.s domesti  savings                                   42,304                            7.9         12.9          6.1                    24.1      23.1      21.4      20.5
Ad.ount                         Average Annual Iac-ae (.    )                   Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(million US$ current)                     (at constant 1970 prices)                             (at current prices)
1979                          1965-70      1970-75      1975-80                   1966      1970      1975      1980b/
Herchandise Trade
H-erchudi-e e-p-rts                                     15,244                            7.8         11.5          6.5                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary                                                6,631                           7.3          8.5         -6.8                      82.9     75.1      61.8      57.9
.a-ufattuton                                           8,613                           7.9         12.2          8.3                      17.1      24.9     38.2      42.1
Merchandise lopurto                                     17,961                           10.0         13.6          8.3                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
rood                                                     985                          -3.8          5.3         24.9                     11.5       4.5       3.0       6.5
Petroleam                                              6,698                           9.3         14.1          8.3                     14.7      11.2      24.5      52.1
M-chinery and equipment                                2,242                          22.1         16.8        -15.9                      15.2      21.2     14.0      15.6
oth-r                                                  8,036                           8.3         12.6          13.5                     58.6      63.1     58.5      24.8
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979
Price  and Ce-u  of Trade
POP deflat   (1970e=1a e                                289.6      410.9      584.2      809.2   1,229.6
EUxha_ng  rati  (Cn$7U5)                                 8.1       10.6       14.1       18.0      26.8
Expurt pric  inden (1970=100)                           189.0      218.0      266.0     238.5      262.3
Import pri_ inden (1970=100)                            221.0      227.0      236.0     241.9      295.0
Terms uf trade indox (1970=100)                          85.5       96.0      112.7       98.6       88.6
An 2. of COP
(at current priues)
1970      1975       1978
Public Finance
Current -revue                                                     16.6       19.8       20.4
C-rre-t expenditure                                                14.4       15.8       18.6
Surplus (+) ur deficit (-)                                          2.2        4.0        1.8
Capital enpendit.e                                                  2.6        3.8        3.9
Finonciug (met)                                                     0.4       -0.2        2.1
1965-70      1970-75      1975-79
Other Indinors
CNP growth rate (I)                                                             7.7         10.7          5.8
CNP per raptit  growth rate (7)                                                 4.6          7.7          3.0
Energy  -    Psumption growth  trae (2)                                         7.2          7.3          6.5
ICOR                                                                            2.9          3.0          3.9
Marginal savings rate                                                          20.5         25.7         22.7
Import elaoticity                                                               2.2          1.6          0.3
a! At market priucs: components ore net domeatic products e-prenned at factor onst and
will nor add due  noexclunion of deprenir ion ond indirert tomes lens suhbidies.
h/ Estimatc
April 25, 1980



-27-
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                            Pge .
(million Us$ at current prince)
Population:        122.7 aillion  (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  U5$1,633 (1979)
ACTUAL                                                                         PROJNCTED
1970          1975           1976          1977           1978           1979-i        1980           1981           1982          1983           1984
Balance of Pasyeoto
Net o-ports of poodo ood so ca-583                                   -6,/02         -6,ili        -4,037   -      5,999         -9,774       -11,618        -12,052       -10,476         -9,086         -6,672
Eaptrts of good      a                               (2,739)       (8,670)       (10.128)      (12,120)       (12,659)      (15,244)       (20,102)       (25.075)      (29,715)       (35,503)       (42-362)
Importo of goods                                     (2,507)      (12,210)       (12,383)      (12,023)       (13,683)      (17.9617)      (22,126)       (26,256)      (28,871)       (31,83)       (34,989)
Net trenfens                                               21              2             1            -              72             17             30            40             50             50            50
-  Cuonect account balaoce                               -562        -6,700         -6,017        -4,037         _5,927         -9,757       -11,580        -12,012       -10,429         -9,036         -6,622
Diroc  pritoj o i__n_n2t2/                                 92           892            959            810           906          2,200         1,100          1,145          1,200         1,242          1,300
M&LTI IORP  net                                           767         3,760          5,023          4,631         8,819          4,995         9,262         10,838         11,317        10,437          8,576
Traditionlsuc                                          (833)       (1,408)        (2,052)       (2,648)        (2,793)        (2.738)       (2,881)        (3,538)        (4,168)       (4,620)        (5.164)
Fionojiul crodico                                      (434)       (4,524)        (5,980)       (6,118)       (11,112)        (8,808)      (13,399)       (15.222)      (14,616)       (11.665)      (13,345)
brotioatlon                                          (-632)      (-2,172)       (-3,009)      (-4,135)       (-5,286)       (-6.551)      (-7,218)       (-7,922)      (-7,447)       (-5,848)       (-9,933)
Brazilian loans abroad (net)                             -             -197           -248           -267          -358           -596          -782         -1,096        -1,434         -1,890         -2,477
Othee capitol n.o.l.                                      248         1,295          2,627           -507           440            -61           -             -              -             -
Cbaoir in reservea  (-tntrraso)2t                        -545            950        -2,344           -630        -3,880          3,219         2,000          1,125           -654          -753           -777
Tnteroo- ionol reervet4/                                1,142         3,980          6,488         7,192         11,82b          8,966         6,966          5,041         6,495          7,248          8.025
R-seve ..as . ootth  of itpoeto.1                           5.5            3.9           6.3            7.2           10.4           6.0            3.8            2.7           2.7            2.7           2.8
ACTUAJL
1974          1975           1976          1977           1978           1979
Total dicons dsb           t  M67..os                                 7,254          5,932         8,032          8,766         14,105        11,5466/
Public and  poblitly  iuaransted                                    2,937          3,731         4,624          4.620        10,356
Official e-pont crdico                                              408            396           368            167           413
IBRD                                                                247            250           173            299           275
Ocher multilainril                                                  139            119           1l1             92            136
Private 000crc                                                    2,143          2,966         3,972          4,062         9,532
Prliateoo-i-gu--anted                                               4,317          2,201          3,408         4,146          3,749
External Lebt
Total debt outatanding and dinborsod                                 17,576         21,920        26,984         32,224         43,174        49,9046/
Public xnd  publicly  gua-t-ed                                      9,394        12,328         15,851         19,218        27,223
Oftficia  ...rc                                                   3,276          3,854         4,320          4,612         5,229
8RD                                                              (871)       (1,093)        (1,2170       (1,413)        (1,615)
Other                                                          (2,405)       (2,761)        (3,103)        (3,199)       (3,614)
Pirivto  source                                                   6,118         8,474         11,531        14,606         21,994
Private noc-ouErustrod                                              6.182          9,592        11,133         13,006        15,951
Uodisboroed debt (public only)                                        2,524          2,380          3,446         4,004          4,535
Debt Service
tiotl  ebt .srvico p- to nts                                          3,290          4,035         5,100          6,597         8,628         11,B12
Interest (inas5)                                                   (1,370)        (1,863)       (2,091)        (2,462)       (3,342)        (5,261)
FPyO..te   as T of Eoports &N7g                                          38.8           43.0           47.2          51.4           64.1          72.6
Pt7mentsus T of GNP                                                        3.1           3.3            3.6           4.1            4.7            5.9
A-erugs i-tete.t rote o nev lotos (/..                                    10.6            9.0           8.0            8.3           9.8
Official source                                                          7.0           7.8            7.9           8.0            7.7
Aveca- n  taI ripy of 000 loans                                           10.9           8.7           10.2          10.1           10.1
Official source                                                         14.6          18.4           16.3          16.6           14.1
Private source                                                          9.7            5.8            7.0           9.0            9.6
IBRD Eoeosors
1088 DOD/total  OD (7.)                                                   5.0            5.0           4.5            4.4            3.7           3.6
0I0R  diabtseeenttatal gross disburesneote  (7)                            3.4            3.6           2.2            3.5            1.7           2.6
IBRD debt sernlon/catal dobtsernice (%)                                    2.4            2.5           3.3            4.0            2.9           2.0
As % P f intal debt aosavtnding
at end of  -ore 1979
Debi Itroonuno
Mrlat-iy structure of debt -otsctadiog
-  liorurities  due  sithi  5 years                                                                        66.3
atturities duo yithin 10 years                                                                              26.3
11  Ettimate.
2/  Eiclodig re-i-vested profits.
5/ Excladiog dollar nalsssioo tdjuxtmetnt.
4/  Enclodiog gold, and i-cluding dollar raluation adjst ..ts.
57  G.ods only.
6/  Details unanetlsble.
April 25, 1980



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMWARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of February 29, 1980)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-five loans fully disbursed                                  1,485.0
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports                45.0            5.7
853   1972  Brazil                              Land Settlement      6.7             .1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -         Power              125.0           14.3
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                              Agro-Industry       42.3           15.0
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao          Power               81.0           23.7
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Water Supply        36.0            0.3
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education           23.5           13.7
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways           175.0           18.4
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads              110.0           26.0
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0           52.6
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0           50.4
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0           11.8
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways            75.0           25.9
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0            10.4
1206   1976  Brazil                              Development Bank   35.0             6.2
1207   1976  Brazil                              Feeder Roads        55.0           47.6
1249   1976  Brazil                              Agriculture         40.0           30.1
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer          50.0            1.4
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de             Power               49.0           11.7
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of February 29, 1980)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                       Power                 50.0          20.8
1302    1976  Brazil                           Nutrition             19.0          17.0
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0           23.0
1317    1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry        83.0           83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                 82.0          41.1
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   42.0            21.6
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer            64.0          54.0
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer            55.0          10.7
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                           Education             32.0          28.9
1488    1977  Brazil                           Rural Development   17.0            14.3
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage                110.0         100.5
1537    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   24.0            22.0
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                130.0         129.9
1557    1978  Brazil                           Roads                114.0         110.9
1562    1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals        85.0          73.3
1563    1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport      88.0           76.8
1568    1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension   100.0            97.1
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            34.6
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               93.0
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0              100.0
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              98.0          88.9
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            26.0
1720 /1 1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            70.0
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power               109.0         109.0
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            40.0
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation           28.0           28.0
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0         110.0
Total                                             4,469.4 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 613.5
Total now outstanding                             3,855.9
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            42.5             3.3
Total now held by Bank                            3,852.6
Total undisbursed                                                 1,989.7
/1   Not yet effective.
75   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



_30~_                                           ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 29, 1980)
Fiscal Year                            Obligor                                       Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                       Electrical Equipemnt         2.00       -        2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                             Pulp and Paper               1.20       -        1.20
1958               D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                             Automotive Parts             0.45       -       0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                      Motor Vehicles               2.45       -        2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                  Cement                       1.20       -        1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S.A.                                      Pulp                         4.00       -       4.00
1966/1968/
1972               Acos Villares, S.A.                                          Steel                        8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                           Pulp and Paper               3.78      3.41     7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                           Fertilizers                 8.22      3.03    11.25
1969               Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                     Petrochemicals               5.50     2.88      8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                      Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88      8.38
1971               Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                           Petrochemicals              4.60      1.44      6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                    Pulp                        4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                       Cement                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                  Steel                       76.97     7.50    84.47
1973               Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                     Capital Market
Development                5.00       -        5.00
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                       Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                    Refining                  85.00      8.34    93.34
1974               Industrias Villares, S.A.                                    Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment            6.00        -      6.00
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                             Textiles                   31.00       -       31.00
1975/1979          Capuava Carbonos Industriss Ltd.                             Carbon Blark                6 18      14.9      7.37
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                       Petrochemicals             10.00       -       10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                Textiles                    6.45      1.00      7.45
1976/1980          Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                Textiles                   16.20       -       16.20
1977               FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                              Iron and Aluminum
Castings                  20.00       -      20.00
1977               Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                  Mining                     15.00       -       15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                      Iron and Steel              7.0       3.0      10.0
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S. A.                     Motor Vehicles             60.00      5.00    65.00
1980               Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                            Ready-made Garments          2.00       -       2.00
1980               Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura,
Industria e Comercio de Oelaginosas                       Palm Oil                     3.50      1.00      4.50
1980               Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                   Iron and Steel               5.00       -       5.00
1980               PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                  Chemicals and Petro-
Chemicals                 15.00      2.00    17.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                                451.24    47.80   499.04
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                 321.31      8.52   329.83
Total Commitments Now Meld by IFC                                                      129.93    39.28   169.21
Total Undisbursed                                                                      150.75    12.05   162.80



-31-                        ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
As of February 29, 1980, there were 45 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
After long delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is now expected by end-1980. The financial
condition of the port of Santos has improved. Price escalation for
civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by addi-
tional allocations from Brazil's federal port authority, PORTOBRAS.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. The now completed road component of the project
was reduced from the original 306 to 238 km. Other aspects of the
project are also nearing completion and 8,000 families have settled
in the project area, more than half already receiving full project
services. However, the project has taken longer than expected to
complete, having been subject to administrative delays in the
release of public funds, unforeseen legal complications in transfer-
ring land titles to settlers, and cost overruns presently amounting
to about 240%. The Closing Date for this loan has been postponed
to December 31, 1980 to allow the Borrower sufficient time to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 54% over
the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by the Govern-
ment, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commit-
ments under this loan are almost at a standstill as a result of
competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down
in industrial investments. Sub-loan commitments and disbursements
are more than 2 years behind schedule. The original Closing Date
was postponed once--from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In
view of the slow disbursement, and the fact that commitments under
Loan No. 1317-BR had not yet started, the Bank has decided to allow
the Closing Date to lapse, and has cancelled the amount of
US$11,737,035.97, corresponding to the uncommitted balance of
Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30, 1979. The Borrower will be permitted
to draw down until June 30, 1980 up to the amount of US$16,537,353.30,
correspondl-iv  to the amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30,
1979 against approved sub-projects but not yet disbursed as of that
date.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date:  January 9, 1975; Closing Date:  August 15, 1980
This project is substantially completed. As of November 30, 1979,
97% of the loan proceeds had been disbursed. The project has financed
41 subprojects in the capital city, Belo Horizonte, and in other
cities and towns. The Closing Date for this loan was postponed to
August 15, 1980 so that the borrower can meet final payments on
equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Project imple-
mentation units in all eight project states and these, together with
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed
and have yielded useful information for future sector investment
planning. The original closing date of December 31, 1979 has been
postponed to June 30, 1981.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are completed. Implementation
of the road weighing station program and the maintenance component is
making progress after some initial delays.  The closing date originally
December 31, 1979 has been postponed to December 31, 1981.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials, some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program, and funding shortfalls from the federal government.
The new Government has reassigned priority to the steel sector,
and no further financial difficulties are envisaged. Substantial
changes were made resulting in better management and control of
the project. The project remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project was revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III has been proceeding at a reduced pace in part because
of uncertainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds
to fully finance the project. However, with the assurance that
sufficient federal funding will be available beginning in 1980,
no further delays are envisaged. The revised project cost is
US$1.7 billion which is 44% above the appraisal estimate.
However, the project remains economically justified.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in-the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 has further delayed project progress.
Current cost estimates show an increase of at least 80% over the
appraisal estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have
resulted from design changes, rapid increases in the costs of
civil works and equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation.
Further adjustment in project composition is being considered in
view of the 1979 floods. The closing date has been postponed to
December 31, 1982.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The technical
assistance program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations,
marketing, and data processing systems is showing results. FEPASA's
financial position, however, continues to remain extremely weak.
Active consideration is being given to ways in which this situation
can be corrected. The closing date for this loan was postponed to
December 31, 1981 to allow the borrower the time needed to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. Phase II, now
just beginning, would sharpen the project's focus on the lowest
income farmers and would include new components in the areas of
marketing, storage, and support to cooperatives, land services; seed
production; and inland fisheries. The new state administration has
indicated its strong support of the project, particularly of Phase
II implementation. During 1979 a drought occurred which has
affected first-year project implementation for Phase II. The
closing date for this loan was postponed to September 30, 1982 to
allow disbursements to coordinate effectively with Phase II.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to the availability of competing credit lines at subsidized
interest rates, there was little demand for loan funds, and as of
year-end 1979, about US$52.5 million of the Bank loan remained
uncommitted. Since this situation was expected to persist, the
Government requested cancellation of the uncommitted balance of
the loan, and US$50 million of the loan was cancelled as of



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
January 28, 1980. It is expected that the Government will request
cancellation of an additional US$2.5 million.  The Closing Date
of the loan has been extended to December 31, 1980 to enable
completion of disbursements against approved subprojects which were
committed for financing under the loan but against which disburse-
ments have not been completed.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Ten sub-projects involving ten different
states have been approved. Construction is underway in three
states, Bahia, Minas Gerais, and Goias.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA in early 1979. Imposed hiring constraints
also significantly affected the civil works, consultant services,
and training components of this project. The outlook for 1980 is
more favorable with a recent resumption of normal hiring procedures
and an expanded program of civil works to recuperate previous
shortfalls.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Major project works were completed on schedule but overall project
completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 10% behind appraisal forecast. The Closing Date has been
postponed by six months, to June 30, 1980. An amount of US$3.0
million of the loan proceeds has been cancelled at the request of
the Borrower since it could not be utilized for project related
expenditures.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. However, the Bank has post-
poned the closing date to December 31, 1980. The agreed targets for
connection of low income households have been widely exceeded.
Substantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit is inadequately
staffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the project.
The nutrition delivery system's field tests are proceeding
reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial credit
component have not started primarily because of competitive
programs at subsidized rates. We have been informed that the
Government is planning to give INAN foundation status. This measure
would allow INAN to offer competitive salaries and thus attract and
retain adequate staff. Measures to deal with the inactive industrial
credit are currently under review by the Government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
began only in 1979. However, the existence of competing credit
lines at subsidized rates may well render the balance of this loan
unusable. Active consideration is now being given to the future
of this loan.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 60% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
Loan disbursements are progressing according to appraisal forecast.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
and close to schedule after initial delays. Mainly as a result of
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by
landless producers was initially significantly lower than originally
envisaged, but concerted efforts by the state government and the
participating banks have improved this situation markedly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
October 1, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
affecting project execution. US$27.0 million of the loan proceeds
has been cancelled at the request of the Borrower since the cost
for equipment was much less than originally anticipated, and the
funds could not be used for other appropriate project-related
expenditures.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers is proceeding within cost estimates
but about one year behind schedule. Administrative problems which
have contributed to delays in the rural training component are being
resolved, but the hotel training component continues to encounter
implementation difficulties. The technical assistance program is
underway at the training centers.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project in general is proceeding satisfac-
torily although local funding delays have been a recurring problem.
Agricultural extension and experimentation services, agricultural
credit, input supply, marketing and storage services are making
good progress, while the parts of the project relating to agricul-
tural mechanization and cooperative societies organization are
progressing at a slower than expected rate. The recent establish-
ment of a land agency in Ceara has enabled the land purchase credit
component to get underway.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction
of three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is
progressing well. Equipment contracts have been signed for these
plants, committing approximately US$60 million of the loan.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Project implementation has slowed down due to funding delays. Civil
works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm development
component is showing encouraging initial results. However, adminis-
trative problems are causing difficulties in making credit available
to the smaller farmers and tenants. The health and water supply
components are suffering from planning and training weaknesses.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Reconstruction of highways foreseen under the project is proceeding
satisfactorily. There have been delays in the delegation of
highway maintenance responsibilities to the states, because of
staffing problems in the state highway departments resulting from
low salary scales, and because the states will not accept respon-
sibility for federal highways until they have been rehabilitated.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities involved. The Curitiba sub-
project is the furthest advanced.



-39-                         ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency, EMBRATER, has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized, and project execution proceeded satis-
factorily during FY 1979. Early local funding delays appear to have
been resolved in late 1979. Means to resolve current problems in
achieving planned levels of incremental staffing are under discussion.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
First year implementation of the project advanced satisfactorily
after initial funding delays. Substantial progress was made in
majority of the components, and targets for the number of farmers
to be assisted with extension and credit were exceeded. However,
project activities were disrupted in March 1979 with the change
in state administrations and dismissal of a large number of
project-funded staff. Funding delays in year two have compounded
difficulties associated with the rehiring of staff, now underway,
and the restoration of appropriate coordination and integration of
project activities.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Project execution is proceeding
ahead of schedule in Sao Paulo and Recife. Some initial delays have
been experienced in Salvador.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the five year
investment program of the project water companies for the period
1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
approved and construction is underway. However, because of initial
difficulties, the project may be completed with about a one-year
delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$48.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date:  August 6, 1979; Closing Date:  July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with some minor delays.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. All components are in the early stages of
implementation.
1721      Copel Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 13
Loan No.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period has been longer
than expected, in part due to initial delays in the release of
counterpart funds.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Several subproject
applications have been received by the National Development Bank,
and are being evaluated.



-41-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZTL
THIRD MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Kev Events
(a) Time taken by country to
irepare proiect:                  Approximately six months
(b)  Project prepared by:               State Water Company
(c) First presentation to
the Bank:                         June 1979
H)  )Departure ot
Appraisal Mission:                October 1979
(e) Completion of
Negotiations:                      April 1980
(f) Planned Deadline
for Effectiveness:                September 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None
Seccion III - Special Conditions
(1) COPASA would carry out a program to reduce its administrative
costs (para. 53).
(2) Tariffs would be increased in real terms in 1981 and 1982
in order to meet the minimum requirements of the national
tariff legislation in 1983 (para. 55).
(3) COPASA would prepare a propo6al to restructure its sewage
collection and treatment service tariffs based on costs
(para. 57).
(4) COPASA would submit its five-year financial projections to
the Bank before March 31 each year (para. 62).
(5) COPASA would establish a system of monitoring indicators
(para. 62).



-42-
ANNEX III
Page 2
(6)  BNH would make available to COPASA the results of its low-cost
sanitation studLes and proposals for their application in
Minas Gerais (para. 69).
(7)  BNH and COPASA would take appropriate steps to minimize the
risks associated with the construction of the Serra Azul and
the Velhas Dams ayid Reservoirs (para. 71).



I BRD 14747R
M1ARC,FI
BRAZIL                                                           ,                                                            -t. La-
THIRD  MINAS  GERAIS WATER  SUPPLY  &  SEWERAGE  PROJECT                                                                                          -        -                                                   coo,,r  To,    Foro
Metropol tan  Belo Horizonre Water Supply                                                                                                                                                                                   WT  M-5
_ x -                      C     WATER MAINS
_  =- ---  - >ds <5;  0 2 4 1-F   t- A'A F tFEAIME I PLaIvI;~~~~~~~~~~~~Acs                                                                   its     5,4  ~TPI,TOk  'SF , P
-- = ---7 - F .g==  ,                                                -- \   rar'2 , 001FF 'P5U MEN  S-ON
,  . t e_. r =- ,-- _ < : @,r tP'IIR41 R z i \& SXr ': _ ,<, - <;. , IRANSII ON CHAFM(bEFANSRTOSCMAMIE
-~~~~~~~~Cree                                                                   o,-S>   t       -      )      -                                                             ' -,       ' F             /Rrp_- a _x __ _  _;SRA    I
NOTU            -FaT --                                                                                                      MonnasTonn --                                        T                                             FT IF A. IT
NA,                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -  --,S<  XCX;KA
RapPorT      1'"-o~~~ F ,TF
NO- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
-v-  <         \                     -  ,          / .       9       -~~~-            |             --      ;< i______-__________       IF  .F -< 
-  R-   _A,B R  A  Z I L\-
, q _\,L'-     .---    ,---   - .-S                                                                                                       N-@+<,,                                                                 1- 'V' <
-        -c'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,,                                210,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~45   I IN



