CON FORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 503 TO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Cocoa-Coffee Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 6, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 503 TO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Cocoa-Coffee Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 6, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 6, 1974, between the REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCI,ATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has undertaken, w  1h the assistance of the
Republic of France, a program for the rehabilitation and improvement of
smallholder cocoa and coffee production;
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement,
which constitutes the second stage of the program referred to in Whereas (A) above,
by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) The Borrower intends to contract from the Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation of the Republic of France a grant (hereinafter called the French Grant)
in an amount of 8,500,000 French Francs to assist in financing part of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Convention de Financernent) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Republic of France; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions


﻿4
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Convention de Financement" means the agreement referred to in
Whereas (C) of this Development Credit Agreement setting forth the terms and
conditions of the French Grant and includes all agreements and arrangements, if
any, incidental or supplemental thereto between the Republic of France and the
Borrower;
(b)   "SRCC" means SocietM      Nationale pour la Renovation    et le
Developpement de la Cacaoydre et de la Caf9idre Togolaises, an instrumentality
of the Borrower;
(c)   "CNCA" means Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole, an instrumentality
of the Borrower;
(d)   "Project Area" means the plains of Litin6, and Klouto, and the
plateau of Akposso and Dayes;
(e)   "Project Credit Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 3.07(a)
of this Development Credit Agreement;
(f)   "Project Credit Unit Manager" means the specialist referred to in
Section 3.07(b) of this Development Credit Agreement;
(g)   "Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and SRCC pursuant to Section 3.0 1(b)(i) of this Development Credit
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Grant Agreement;
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CNCA pursuant to Section 3.01(b)(ii) of this
Development Credit Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(i)   "SRCC Project Account" and "CNCA Project Account" mean the
accounts referred to in Section 3.02 of this Development Credit Agreement; and
(j)   "CFA Francs" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made from the Credit Account in' respect of amounts allocated to Category
IV of Schedule I to this Development Credit Agreement until the Association shall
have given the approval referred to in Section 3.09 of this Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1984, and ending June 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿6
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause: (i) SRCC to carry out Parts
A.1, B, C, E, F.2 and G of the Project, and (ii) CNCA to carry out Parts A.2,
D and F. 1 of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency, under competent
management and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and technical
practices, and shall provide, or cause SRCC and CNCA to be provided with,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) make available the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories I, 11(a), III, IV, VII(b) and VIII of
Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agreement to SRCC under an agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and SRCC (hereinafter called the Grant
Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and (ii)
lend to CNCA the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories
II(b), V and VI of Schedule 1 to this Development Credit, Agreement, and such
additional funds from its own resources as shall be required for carrying out Parts
A2 and D of the Project, and make available to CNCA, on a grant basis, the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category VII(a) of Schedule I to
this Development Credit Agreement, all in accordance with an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CNCA (hereinafter called the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association, (such terms and conditions shall include, inter alia, those set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
modified from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association).
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Grant and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor
amend, abrogate or waive the Grant or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable SRCC and CNCA to perform


﻿7
all of their obligations under the Grant and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (i) cause SRCC and CNCA to establish
in a banking institution, acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, and
maintain until the Project is completed, separate accounts for the purpose of
recording all amounts credited to and disbursed for the carrying out of the Project,
(hereinafter called the SRCC and the CNCA Project Accounts respectively); and
(ii) deposit in the SRCC and the CNCA Project Accounts, on or before January 1,
April 1, July I and October I in each year until the Project is completed, such
amounts as shall have been requested by SRCC and CNCA and approved by the
Borrower in consultation with the Association, and as shall be necessary during
the next three months for the carrying out of the Project except for the initial
deposit required for purposes of Section 6.01(e) of this Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 3.03. In order to assist SRCC and CNCA in the carrying out of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause SRCC and CNCA to employ management,
credit and agricultural experts and consultants acceptable to the Association to
an extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in s'uch detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause SRCC and CNCA to maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made


﻿8
available to SRCC and CNCA by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the carrying out of Parts A.1, E and G
of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)   cause CNCA to establish, not later than March 31, 1975, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, within CNCA
and maintain until the completion of the Project, a Project Credit Unit, to be
responsible for: (i) reviewing and submitting for approval within two weeks by
CNCA's Loan Committee, loans to farmers as required in the carrying out of Part
D of the Project, on the basis of SRCC's technical recommendations and the Project
Credit Unit's own assessment of each farmer's credit worthiness; (ii) disbursing
the cash portion of such loans; (iii) keeping loan accounts for both cash portions
and in-kind portions of such loans furnished to each farmer by SRCC; (iv) collecting
repayments of principal of such loans and interest thereby; and (v) if necessary,
providing marketing services to farmers who have received credit under Part D
of the Project, in accordance with paragraph 4(b) of Part C of Schedule 5 to
this Development Credit Agreement;
(b)   cause CNCA to create, not later than March 31, 1975, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, within the Project
Credit Unit and maintain until the completion of the Project, the position of Project
Credit Unit Manager, such manager to (i) be acceptable to the Association, (ii)
be appointed not later than March 31, 1975, or such other date as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, (iii) have overall responsibility for the
carrying out of Part D of the Project and (iv) be employed under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association;
(c)   cause SRCC and CNCA to enter, not later than March 31, 1975, or
such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, into
an agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,


﻿9
concerning the coordination of the activities of SRCC and the Project Credit Unit
in the carrying out of Part D of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall carry out, not later than December 31,
1977, or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, a land tenure survey in the Project Area.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause SRCC to submit, not later than
December 31, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed between ne Borrower
and the Association, for approval by the Association a program, including curricula,
phasing of courses and budget requirements, for the carrying out of Part B of
the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause SRCC to organize farmers desiring
to participate in the carrying out of Part C of the Project in village production
groups consisting of about ten to twenty farmers, in order to ensure the efficient
carrying out of Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause SRCC and CNCA to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of SRCC and CNCA.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause SRCC and CNCA to: (i) have their accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of SRCC and CNCA
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause SRCC and the Project Credit Unit
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound practice.


﻿10
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause CNCA to submit, within two months
after completion of Part F. 1 of the Project, for approval by the Association, a
plan to implement the conclusions and recommendations of the study contained
in such Part of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) inform the Association about any new
appointment proposed to be made, until the Project has been completed, to the
posts of Directeur General of SRCC and chiefs of SRCC's extension unit and
road department; and (ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to express
its views on candidates before appointments are made.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall review, on at least an annual basis, farmgate
prices for cocoa and coffee and shall afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to express its views on the level of such prices during the course of
any such review.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall: (i) cause SRCC and CNCA to adequately
maintain the buildings, equipment, vehicles, roads and other facilities included il
the Project and financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, and (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall continue to carry out, in the areas planted
with cocoa within the Region des Plateaux, anticapsid treatment campaigns, free
of charge to farmers and shall provide, promptly as needed, all the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a) The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation shall have suspended in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under the Convention
de Financement;
(b)   a default shall have occurred in the payment of principal or interest
or any other payment required under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any other
obligation: (i) on the part of the Borrower under the Convention de Financement,


﻿*                                   11
or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Grant Agreement, or (ii) on the part
of CNCA, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or (iii) on the part of SRCC
under the Grant Agreement, or under the agreement referred to in Section 3.07(c)
of this Development Credit Agreement;
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or transformation of SRCC or of CNCA or for the
suspension of their operations; and
(e)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that SRCC or CNCA will be able to perform their obligations under
the Grant Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement respectively.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in paragraph (a) or in paragraph (b) of Section
5.01 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of thirty days.
(b)   the events specified in paragraph   (c) of Section 5.01 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
and
(c)   any  event specified in paragraph  (d) of Section 5.01 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the consultants required to carry out Part F.1 of the Project have
been employed;
(b)   the Convention de Financement has been executed and delivered on
behalf of the Republic of France and the Borrower, respectively, and such execution
and delivery have been duly authorized or ratified by all governmental. action and
the conditions precedent to the initial disbursement under such Convention have


﻿12
been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Development Credit
Agreement;
(c)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered on
behalf of the Borrower and CNCA, respectively, and such execution and delivery
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(d)   the Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered on behalf of
the Borrower and SRCC, respectively, and such execution and delivery have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
and
(e)  the Borrower has established the SRCC and the CNCA Project
Accounts and has deposited in each such account at least 50,000,000 and
25,000,000 CFA Francs, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Convention de Financement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Republic of France and
the Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Republic of
France and the Borrower in accordance with its terms;
(b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and CNCA,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and CNCA in
accordance with its terms; and
(c)  that the Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SRCC, respectively,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and SRCC in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 6, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which


﻿13
this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after
the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre des Finances et de l'Economie of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
et de l'Economie
Lom6
Togo
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Lom6
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit


﻿14
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By /s / H.E. Michel Messanir Kekeh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Xavier de ]a Renaudi6re
Director, Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below    sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.         Construction of                190,000           70%
buildings for
Part A.1 of the
Project
II.        Acquisition of
vehicles and
road construc-
tion, office and
house equipment:
(a)   For Part A.1             195,000      )
of the Proj-                          )
ect                                   )
)     100% of foreign
(b)  For Part A.2               50,000      )    expenditures or
of the Proj-                          )     70% of local
ect                                   )     expenditures
(c)   For Part E of            140,000      )
the Project                           )
III.       Operating costs in-          1,970,000           85%
curred by SRCC in
the carrying out of
Part C of the Proj-
ect other than costs
incurred in employing
non-Togolese staff


﻿16
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             o of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
IV.        Training of SRCC and            75,000           80%
CNCA staff
V.         Operating costs of             388,000           80%
the Project Credit
Unit
VI.        Loans to farmers              1,880,000          80% of amounts
under Part D of                                  disbursed by
the Project                                      CNCA
VII.       Consultants' serv-
ices for:
(a)  Parts F.1 of               62,000           100% of foreign
the Project                                expenditures
(b)  Part F.2 of               135,000           60%
the Project
VIII.      Equipment, sup-                515,000           40%
plies, consultants'
services and operat-
ing costs incurred
by SRCC in the carry-
ing out of Part G
of the Project
IX.        Unallocated                    400,000
TOTAL        6,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other


﻿17
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is
also that of another country from the territories of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed
to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Development Credit
Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on
account of expenditures incurred after July 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $50,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
wh ch in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures (except in the case
of Category VII(a) or of foreign expenditures under Category II) in order that
further withdrawals unIer such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Development Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under this Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such


﻿18
amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the second stage of the Borrower's program referred to in
Whereas (A) of this Development Credit Agreement and consists of:
A.    Expansion of Facilities
1.    Construction and equipping of one office, ten houses with office space,
and one storage building and acquisition of road construction equipment, trucks,
pick-ups, personnel vehicles and bicycles for SRCC.
2.    Equipping of about ten offices, and acquisition of pick-ups, personnel
vehicles and motorcycles for the Project Credit Unit.
B.    Training
Carrying out of formal and in-service training for SRCC's and the Project
Credit Unit's personnel in the technical aspects of cocoa and coffee production
and in agricultural credit procedures.
C.    Planting
1.    The carrying out in the Project Area planted with cocoa of:
(i)         a swollen shoot virus disease erradication program; and
(ii)        anticapsid treatment campaigns, free of charge to the farmers.
2.    The planting and maintenance by about 6,500 farmers of:
(i)         about 4,400 hectares with cocoa in the Litim6 and Klouto areas
only after completion of Part C. L(i) of the Project; and
(ii)        about 4,000 hectares with coffee in the Akposso and Dayes
areas.
3.    The provision by SRCC of agricultural extension services to farmers
participating in the Project.


﻿20
4.    The propagation of planting materials, under the supervision of SRCC,
and the provision of such planting material to village nurseries and farmers
participating in the Project.
D.    Credit
Provision by CNCA of agricultural credit to farmers participating in the
Project, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Development Credit Agreement.
E.    Roads
Construction of about 50 kilometers and rehabilitation of about
110 kilometers of feeder roads within the Project Area.
F.    Studies
1.    To review CNCA's operations and administrative structure and to
formulate and establish lending procedures for the Project Credit Unit, adapted
to the special conditions prevailing in the Republic of Togo.
2.    To   evaluate  the Project's results and the feasibility  of future
investments in cocoa and coffee cultivation.
G.    Research
Applied research on aspects of cocoa and coffee production in the Republic
of Togo, selected by SRCC in consultation with the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders for the works included in Part A. 1 of the Project shall be prequalified
as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines and in this Schedule.
3.    Office and house equipment to be financed out of Category II of Schedule
1 to this Development Credit Agreement may be procured in accordance with t'he
Borrower's procurement procedures.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for CYvil Works; preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category I of
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors,
as determined by the Borrower, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and


﻿22
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification: The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part B. 1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, vehicles and road construction
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably -request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the Borrower's recommendation for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿23
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 4
Summary of terms and conditions
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   The Borrower shall lend to CNCA the equivalent of that part of the proceeds
of the Credit which shall be withdrawn for expenditures made or to be made
under Categories II(b), V and VI of Schedule 1 to this Development Credit
Agreement and such additional funds from its own resources as shall be required
for carrying out Parts A.2 and D of the Project, for a period of thirteen years,
including a grace period of six years, at an interest rate of one per cent (1%)
per annum on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan outstanding from time to time.
2.   The Borrower shall make available to CNCA, on a grant basis, the equivalent
of that part of the proceeds of the Credit which shall be withdrawn for expenditures
made or to be made under Category VII(a) of Schedule I to this Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 5
Lending and Operating Policies and
Procedures of CNCA in respect of
Part D of the Project
A.    Purpose
CNCA will make sub-loans to eligible farmers only for the purpose of assisting
in the financing of eligible expenditures included in Part C.2 of the Project.
B.    Eligibility
1.    In order to qualify for the granting of a sub-loan, each applicant must
show to the satisfaction of the Project Credit Unit that he meets all such
creditworthiness and technical criteria as shall be reasonably established from time
to time by the Project Credit Unit and by SRCC, respectively.
2.    A  farmer shall not be eligible to receive a sub-loan unless he is a
member of one of the village production groups referred to in Section 3.10 of
this Development Credit Agreement.
C.    Terms and Conditions
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the amount of
sub-loans shall not exceed CFA Francs 40,000 in the case of cocoa planters, and
CFA Francs 73,000 in the case of coffee planters.
2.    The principal amount of each sub-loan outstanding from time to time
shall (a) bear interest at an annual rate of eight per cent (8%) to be capitalized
during the grace period; and
(b)   be repaid over a period of nine years, including a grace period of five
years in the case of cocoa planters and four years in the case of coffee planters.
3.    The standard sub-loan agreement, between CNCA      and each farmer shall
include such other terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Association,
inter alia, good husbandry (including adequate phytosanitary measures) and
residence covenants on the part of the farmer, disclosure and information covenants
(according to Part D of this Schedule) on the part of CNCA and adequate rights
for supervision, suspension of disbursements and foreclosure and other enforcement
of security in favor of CNCA.


﻿26
4.    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph C.3 above, the sub-loan
agreement shall contain the following security provisions:
(a)   Whenever the sub-borrower is a tenant or share-cropper farmer, the
landlord having title to the land where the sub-loan proceeds will be invested,
shall sign the sub-loan agreement as joint obligor; and
(b)   the farmers shall undertake to sell, upon the Project Credit Unit's
request, such portions of their coffee and cocoa crops as the Project Credit Unit
shall deem necessary to service the sub-loan out of such sale proceeds, to either
(i) a licensed buying agent of the Office des Produits Agricoles diu Togo selected
by the farmer and approved by the Project Credit Unit or (ii) the Project Credit
Unit as licensed buying agent of the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo.
D.    Disbursements and Records
1.    Whenever any goods or services, to be financed out of the proceeds
of any sub-loan and delivered in kind to the farmers, are procured or paid for
by CNCA, or through SRCC's intermediary, CNCA must promptly inform its
sub-borrowers of the amounts charged to their respective sub-loan accounts on
account of such goods or services so procured or paid, such information to be
supported with copies of the sub-borrower's receipt for such goods or services in
the amounts so charged.
2.    CNCA must furnish semi-annual statements to each sub-borrower,
showing the amounts drawn on the sub-borrower's sub-loan account, including
interest, payment., made and the outstanding balance of the respective sub-loan.
E.    Supervision
1.    SRCC will ensure that amounts drawn on sub-loan accounts are applied
exclusively to expenditures on the farm development plan that such sub-loan is
intended to assist in financing.
2.    SRCC staff will regularly visit the farms where farm development plans
financed with sub-loans are being carried out to ensure that sub-borrowers are
effectively and punctually carrying out such plans and complying with the
provisions of their respective sub-loan agreements with CNCA.


