Document of                      FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2888-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENI
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SUPPLEMENT)
TO-THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
October 30, 1980
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise -be disclosed without World Bank athoriation.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978    July 1979      Jan. 1980 /1    Oct. 1980
US Dollar 1     =        TL 24.28       TL 47.10 /2    TL 70.00 /3      TL 82.70 /3
TL 1            =        US$ 0.04       US$ 0.02       US$ 0.01        US$ 0.01
/1  Since January 1980 the rate is being adjusted for the differential
I   inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners.  TL82.7/$1.00
was used for this report.
/2  Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefitting from official
price supports, for which it was TL35 = US$1.00.
/3  Except for imports of fertilizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as
raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate was
TL55 = US$1.00 from January 1980 and is TL70 = US$1.00 as from October 1980.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey                                   March 1 to February 28
ABBREVIATIONS
EEC                                 European Economic Community
LIBOR                               London Inter Bank Offer Rate
M & LT                              Medium and Long Term
SEE                                 State Economic Enterprise
SPO                                 State Planning Organization
TSKB                                Turkish Industrial Development Bank
The Structural Adjustment Loan (Supplement) was appraised by a mission consisting
of Mr. D. Berk and Ms. K. Saito.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I (SUPPLEMENT)
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Turkey
Amount:             US$75 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms;              Seventeen years including four years grace, at 9.25
percent per annum.
Description:        The loan will be in further support of Turkey's January
1980 program of structural adjustment policies, and
measures initiated and being implemented since then
in areas critical to begin restoring viability to the
economy, which provided the basis for the Structural
Adjustment Loan I (Loan No. 1818-TU). These policy
measures are aimed at; (a) export promotion, through a
rational exchange rate policy and financial and institu-
tional incentives; (b) improved domestic resource mobil-
ization efforts, through an increased tax effort, gradual
reform of the SEE sector and interest rate liberaliza-
tion; (c) formulation and pursuit of rational public
investment policies; and (d) improved external debt
management.
The loan will finance high priority imports to assist
fuller utilization of productive capacity in agriculture
and industry. For agriculture; plant protection
chemicals and raw materials and fertilizer raw materials
($45 million). For industry: steel and inputs for the
steel industry, copper, aluminum, petrochemicals and
other chemicals ($30 million). Private sector firms will
receive at least $25 million from the loan.
The main risks relate to possible political developments
in Turkey which might impede the Government's determina-
tion and efforts to carry out the stringent structural
adjustment programs designed to enable the economy to be
first nursed to normalcy and then to resume viable growth.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                                US$ Millions
Bank FY         1981
Annual                                          75.0
Cumulative                                      75.0
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I (SUPPLEMENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan I (Supplement) to the Republic of Turkey, for the
equivalent of US$75 million to help finance essential recurrent imports to
assist with the fuller utilization of industrial and agricultural capacity.
The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace with
interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to
evaluate the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-1983). Its report entitled
"Turkey. Policies and Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December
12, 1979) was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 26, 1979
and its Postscript on March 24, 1980. A small mission visited Turkey in May
1980 to update information and Bank analysis of the country's economic
prospects. Its findings are reflected below. Annex I contains the Basic
Country Data.
Development Trends and Policies
3. As the result of a strong commitment to rapid growth and modernization,
GDP increased at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent, 6.7 percent and 7.2
percent respectively, during the First Plan (1963-67), Second Plan (1968-
1972), and Third Plan (1973-1977) periods. This compares favorably with the
experience of 55 "middle income" developing countries, whose GDP growth
averaged a little under 6.0 percent per annum between 1960-1978. Moreover,
the relatively high growth rate in Turkey was achieved without significant
deposits of oil or other important natural resources.
4.       Growth was accompanied by significant social changes.  Although
population grew annually at 2.5 percent, rapid GDP growth allowed substan-
tial advances in per capita income. However, rising income levels were not
accompanied by better income distribution. Although basic needs have been
met, significant sectoral and regional inequalities in income continue.
5.       The public sector has played a key role in Turkey's development.
Between 1963-1977, its share in total fixed investment fluctuated around 50
percent, and its share of fixed investment in manufacturing increased from
21 to nearly 49 percent. The public sector dominates basic industries.
1/ This Part is identical to Part I of the President's Reports on the
Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery (P-2886-TU) and Petroleum Exploration
(P-2887-TU) Projects, dated October 30, 1980.



Nevertheless, the private sector has emerged as an increasingly important
and dynamic element in the economy and is beginning to shift its orientation
from consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods, and from the
domestic market to exports. Private sector investment increased at nearly
11.5 percent per year in real terms during 1967-1977 compared to an average
annual increase of only 4.8 percent between 1963 and 1967.
6.       Turkish development between 1963-1977, however, exhibited a number
of structural characteristics which are of considerable relevance for future
development policy. First, for a country of Turkey's size and per capita
income, it has a very low level of exports relative to GDP--about 4 percent
in 1977--as against a more or less "normal" import level of around 20 per-
cent for middle income countries; this highlights the vulnerability of the
balance of payments and the importance of export development to sustain the
needed inflow of foreign exchange resources. Second, while the level of
investment relative to GDP increased rapidly and compares favorably with
other developing countries, mobilization of domestic savings has lagged; the
ratio of domestic savings to GDP, is well below the average for middle
income countries; the growing gap between domestic savings and investment
led in the mid-1970s to a relatively high level of external borrowing, and
domestic inflationary pressures emanating from excess demand and deficit
financing. Third, a relatively high proportion of the labor force is still
in agriculture, reflecting significant disguised unemployment and the need
for accelerated job creation in non-agricultural activities; that in indus-
try is low compared to other large middle income countries; furthermore, the
relatively inadequate generation of additional employment has become more
serious following the near cessation of workers' migration to Europe since
1974. Fourth, despite the growing dynamism of the private sector, the
industrial scene is dominated by inefficient State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs) which have not been exposed to market forces and serve not only
economic but social goals; their growing deficits have imposed an infla-
tionary burden on the budget, while their ambitious investment programs were
financed through Central Bank borrowings, since their controlled prices
have, until recently not enabled most of them to generate sufficient cash to
cover costs or investment expenditures. Fifth, due to the successes
achieved since the early sixties through economic planning, there has been
an increasing tendency to plan to a micro-level and seek to achieve changes
through administrative fiat; however, the economy has reached a stage where
such excessive reliance on this becomes counter productive; planning needs
to be increasingly geared towards setting a framework in which market forces
could secure the desired economic results in both the public and private
sectors.
The Economic Crisis and Stabilization Efforts
7. These institutional and structural characteristics of the economy made
it particularly vulnerable to the sharp increase in import prices (including
oil) in 1974 and the simultaneous occurence of recession, inflation and
rising unemployment in the industrial countries. These factors played a
key part in the deterioration of the economy. However, the politically



weak governments, their policies in response to these factors and their
efforts to pursue a high growth policy despite the worsening international
environment through increasing reliance on short-term external financing,
together created forces that brought about the economic crisis in mid-1977
which is still continuing. The detailed analysis of this crisis, and of
Turkey's attempts to stabilize the economy in the short-run up to late 1979,
is provided in the above-mentioned Special Economic Report and Postscript,
as well as in paras. 8 to 15 of the President's Report (dated February 29,
1980) for the Structural Adjustment Loan approved by the Board on March 25,
1980.
8.       Despite domestic and international efforts, 1979 was another diffi-
cult year for the economy: production stagnated, unemployment increased,
inflation accelerated, the balance of payments position remained tight,
export performance was poor, severe import rationing continued and the
external debt positio  ---'inPd prF' ario-,.  Poliry initiatives taken till
then proved inadequate to reverse tue tie, as political and ecofloidic
uncertainties continued to erode the impact of the measures taken.
9.       Compared to a growth of 3 percent in 1978, GDP stagnated in 1979.
Value added in agriculture increased by 2.5 percent, and in services by
about 1 percent, but in industry value added declined by about 2 percent.
In agriculture, further growth was held back by a sizeable decline in
production of industrial crops, mainly cotton, and a bad olive crop; the
area cultivated declined, due to shortages of fuel and fertilizers. In
industry, worsening shortages of imported raw materials and energy, espe-
cially oil, led to a decline in production of about 3.5 percent. Production
of manufacturing SEEs declined by about 2 percent, and was manifested by
decreases of 28 percent in cement production, 9 percent in steel production
and 51 percent in certain petroleum production and processing operations.
In contrast, the construction and transport sectors grew modestly, but
insufficiently to overcome the decline in other sectors. This stagnation
was accompanied by unprecedented inflation of about 65 percent in 1979.
10.      The overall public sector deficit increased from TL 80 billion in
1978 to TL 132 billion in 1979. It was financed mainly by borrowing from
the Central Bank (TL 70 billion). The consolidated budget and the opera-
tions of the SEEs were almost equally responsible for the enlarged deficit.
The deterioration in the consolidated budget was caused mainly by a sharp
increase in transfers to the SEEs, which in 1979 amounted to TL 89 billion.
11.      On the external account, there was a marginal decline in the value
of recorded exports of goods to $2.3 billion, although in volume terms,
exports actually declined by an estimated 17 percent. The value of merchan-
dise imports was about 10 percent higher than the previous year at $5.1
billion; but due to substantial price increases, the volume is estimated to
have declined by 19 percent. The current account deficit in 1979 was the
same as in 1978, i.e. around $1.7 billion.



- 4 -
12.      Turkey achieved some success in diversifying the sources, and
increasing the level, of M&LT commitments, including $250 million in project
credits from the Saudi Fund. Perhaps the most important arrangement arrived
at was the May 1979 OECD sponsored pledging of $1.45 billion in special
assistance, including about $900 million in M&LT bilateral credits and
export credits, besides $407 million of medium-term credits from commercial
banks (finalized in September 1979). However, actual capital inflows were
about the same as the previous year.
13.      Also, throughout 1979, Turkey made a major effort to alleviate the
critical burden of external debt through: (a) slowing the growth of short-
term liabilities; (b) debt relief arrangements; and (c) efforts to pursue
new sources of credits, especially M&LT credits. The first debt relief
operation, arranged through the OECD Consortium for Turkey in May 1978,
involved consolidation of $1.14 billion in arrears on guaranteed short-term
and bilateral M&LT debt, as well as amounts due over the thirteen month
period May 21, 1978 to June 30, 1979. A second major rescheduling took
place in July 1979, involving payments of about $1.02 billion on official
bilateral and private guaranteed credits due between July 1, 1979 and June
30, 1980. A third major arrangement, finalized in July and August 1979 with
commercial banks, rescheduled convertible lira deposits ($2.3 billion),
banker's credits ($429 million) and third party reimbursement credits ($300
million). About $317 million in oil debt was also rescheduled. The total
amount thus rescheduled was about $5.5 billion. This was perhaps the
largest debt rescheduling operation anywhere. Even so, net arrears of
about $500 million emerged given the remaining high debt service burden in
1979.
January 1980 Structural Adjustment Program and Policy Objectives
14.      Against this background, it was quite clear that drastic and
painful stabilization measures were not enough to reverse the adverse
economic tide. What was needed, was a major program of long-term structural
adjustments, if the economy was first to be nursed back to normalcy and then
to resume viable growth. Such a bold and far-reaching program of policies
to effect structural adjustments in the economy over the medium term was
announced on January 25, 1980, accompanied by initial measures to implement
adjustments in certain critical areas. These were described and discussed
in detail in the President's Report (No. P-272-5-TU dated February 29, 1980)
for the Structural Adjustment Loan.  The policy objectives underlying, the
program, and the measures it initiated, represent a basic departure from
past planning objectives. Turkey has undertaken, through it, the essential
first steps to foster major structural and institutional changes in the key
economic areas.
15.      The program's stated goal of "bringing about a major reorientation
of the economy" calls for: .i) greater reliance on market mechanisms and
forces, by both the public and private sectors; (ii) reduction in the rate
of inflation; (iii) improved management of the balance of payments and
external debts; (iv) policies to encourage the public and private sectors to
be efficient and internationally competitive; (v) the implementation of



- 5 -
rational exchange rate policies and of measures encouraging exports; (vi)
domestic resource mobilization efforts to be substantially augmented through
increased tax efforts, realistic SEE pricing, and increased private savings
via the banking system and the development of financial markets; (vii) an
investment policy aimed at fuller utilization of existing productive capac-
ity and completion of ongoing projects requiring modest inputs, and tailored
to scarce resources; and (viii) conditions to stimulate foreign investments
in oil, industry and agriculture.
16.      Successful implementation of this program over the medium-term,
will require persistence and courageous action on the part of the Govern-
ment. It will also call for substantial support from the international
community, without which it is unlikely to succeed. However, if Turkey
implements it vigorously, and periodically makes critical in-depth reviews
as to the impact of the measures and what further modifications and adjust-
ments are needed to achipi7p the p-yr-ram's economic goals, it will strengthen
the réa£is for Tui^ey t (_editworthiness and re-establish a path of stable
economic growth.
17.      Following the announcement of this program, the IMF approved a
modification of the terms of the July 1979 Standby Arrangement and the
release of larger second and third tranches on February 21 and March 24,
1980. In addition, SDR 71.6 million ($93 million) in compensatory finan-
cing for export shortfalls was provided on February 21, 1980, together with
the modification of the Standby. Together, this resulted in the provision
of $301 million (SDR 231.6 million), with the remaining $26 million (SDR 20
million) to be provided in June. However, on June 18, this Standby was can-
celled. Instead, the IMF Board approved a new three-year Standby Arrange-
ment involving SDR 1.25 billion ($1.63 billion), with SDR 460 million ($600
million) in the first year, SDR 400 million ($522 million) in the second
year and SDR 390 million ($509 million) in the third year. The key condi-
tions of the new Standby are that: (i) exchange rate policy is to be kept
more flexible; (ii) the financial position of the public sector is to be
improved, mainly as a result of the restructuring of the operational
policies of the SEEs; (iii) monetary conditions are to be kept extremely
tight, as a result of the observance of limits on Central Bank lending; and
(iv) interest rates are to be adjusted to reflect market conditions.
18.      In addition, Germany took the lead in organizing the provision of
sizeable external assistance, as well as a further debt relief operation.
In meetings under OECD auspices in March and April, $1.16 billion of
bilateral aid was pledged, with much more rapid disbursements than in 1979.
The Bank also supported OECD's and IMF's efforts through a $200 million
Structural Adjustment Loan in March 1980. Furthermore, about $2.5 billion
in service payments to OECD countries on public and publicly-guaranteed
debts falling due prior to June 1983 were rescheduled, again under OECD
auspices, in July 1980. This included all arrears up to June 30, 1980,
payments due prior to June 1983 on debt not previously rescheduled, and
payments due up to June 1981 on debt already rescheduled in 1978 or 1979.
Ninety percent of these sums were rescheduled over 8 to 10 years, including



- 6 -
4 to 5 years of grace. With these developments, Turkey secured debt relief
estimated at $1.1 billion in 1980 and another t0.8 billion in 1981, with
smaller amounts thereafter. The only sizeable new commitment in recent
months has been a W25O million cash loan on 15 year low-interest terms from
Saudi Arabia, of which 100 million has been disbursed, with another $100
million scheduled for Decemnber and the balance for March 1981. Turkey has
approached leading commercial banks to secure a softening of the terms of
the August 1979 rescheduling agreement. After considerable delay due to
wariness on the part of banks both of a new rescheduling and, to some
extent, of extending new credit to Turkey, a modest syndicated loan is under
discussion. The Government will try to reduce to the extent possible the
current and prospective large net outflow of funds to the commercial banks.
Economic Developments in 1980 and Outlook for 1981
19.      As expected, the initial impact of the January 1980 package has
been to exacerbate many of the economic pressures. Uncertainty about the
course of future policies and about the timing and pace of economic
recovery, as well as tight monetary conditions aimed at reducing aggregate
demand, have slowed investments and economic growth. Devaluation and the
removal of price controls on both private business and SEEs, while necessary
to alleviate allocative distortions in the economy, contributed to a large
initial upsurge in the rate of inflation. Also as expected, the financial
rehabilitation of the SEEs and their reorientation to market conditions has
only begun, and will require more fundamental changes than price liberaliza-
tion alone over the medium term. Budgetary transfers to the SEEs to cover
remaining operating subsidies and investment expenditures have continued to
rise. The budget position as a whole continues to be weak. It: is still too
early to say whether the irnitial adjustment phase is over. However, pre-
liminary data suggest that the worst may be past. Inflation has come down
sharply, and indeed more rapidly than expected (next paragraph); the impact
of higher import prices (especially for oil) has been alleviated (though so
far only for 1980) by a commensurate increase in capital inflows; and recent
production figures suggest that 1980 may see a very modest resumption of
economic growth.
20.      For the full year, GDP growth is likely to be between zero and 2
percent, with growth in agriculture of about 2.5 percent, but stagnation in
industry. Public investment has continued to fall in real terms for lack of
financial resources, and private investment remains depressed. Unemploy-
ment is still rising, and real disposable incomes are falling. As mentioned
above, inflation--which averaged over 100 percent on an annual basis in
early 1980--has since slowed considerably, and expectations are that over
the remainder of this year it will be about 2 percent per month. The fiscal
and monetary situation remains difficult. There has been a substantial
increase in Government expenditures over previous forecasts, in line with
inflation. However, there is evidence of tax revenues lagging behind infla-
tion, and substantial arrears have built up in tax collection. SEE opera-
tions will show a small profit this year after several years of mounting
deficits. However, to finance their investments and debt repayments,



-7-
budgetary transfers to SEEs will rise again to TL 138 billion. As a result,
the budget deficit is likely to be TL 155 billion in spite of a further
accumulation of Government arrears vis-a-vis the private sector. Pressures
have therefore built up to expand Central Bank credit, which is strictly
limited under the IMF Standby Arrangement. Nevertheless, the first discus-
sions under the Standby were satisfactorily concluded at the end of August,
and the second drawing was made available on schedule on Septem!),r 29. How-
ever, a request is being made to the IMF Board shortly for- o small increase
in the ceilings on Central Bank net domestic assets and credit to the public
sector to accommodate crop purchases by the Soil Products Office (partic-
ularly of wheat) without impinging on the availability of financing for the
private sector, especially for exports.
21.      The balance of payments position remains quite tight.  Over the
first eight months of 1980, the value of merchandise exports was only 6
percent higher than in the corresponding period of 1979. However, taking
into account the seasonal rise in agricultural exports, the end of various
labor disputes in industry, and the rising trend in production, and provided
markets recently established in the Middle East are not long disrupted by
the Iran-Iraq war. The Government projects exports of $2.8 billion for the
year as a whole, compared to $2.3 billion last year. While the value of
merchandise imports is expected to be considerably higher than in 1979--$6.7
billion (including $3.2 billion for oil) as against $5.1 billion, the volume
increase will be negligible due to increases in import prices, especially
for oil. As a result, fairly severe import rationing continues. Workers'
remittances have increased strongly this summer and should reach $1.8 bil-
lion for the year as a whole. Even so, it is estimated that the current
account deficit will increase from $1.7 billion in 1978 and 1979 to $2.7
billion in 1980. Capital inflows will also be higher than last year, with
gross public M&LT disbursements expected to be about $2.2 billion, given the
Government's concerted effort to disburse the pipeline of OECD sponsored
external assistance pledged in May 1979 and April 1980. Moreover, the
massive July rescheduling (para. 18) has eased the external debt position
considerably.
22.      The outlook for 1981 is slightly more promising, although the
balance of payments position is likely to remain extremely difficult. It is
too early to predict the impact the Iran-Iraq war may have, given that these
two countries normally provide nearly 55 percent of Turkey's oil imports on
favorable terms. Assuming the impact can be mitigated, the growth rate of
real GDP is projected to be about 3 percent, with value added in agriculture
and industry growing on the order of 3 and 4 percent respectively. Invest-
ment is likely to grow only by about 1 percent, after real falls in recent
years. The Government hopes to reduce the rate of inflation substantially
again. The external position is expected to remain tight. Exports should
grow by about 20 percent to $3.4 billion, and imports by about 16 percent to
$7.8 billion, in nominal terms. As in 1980, the volume increase in imports
is likely to be negligible due to increases in import prices, especially for
oil, and hence import rationing will have to continue. With only a modest
rise in service receipts and workers' remittances, the current account



- 8 -
deficit in 1981 is expected to be $3.3 billion, or $600 million more than in
1980. Turkey has already begun to make preparations to meet the very large
financing gap in 1981, and hopes to secure considerably higher capital
inflows than in 1980, particularly gross public M&LT disbursements which
need to be around $3.5 billion. Apart from the Bank, IMF and commercial
bank loans arranged or being processed, the Government intends to seek
further special aid from OECD members in 1981.
Turkey's Medium-Term Economic Prospects
23.      The international oil situation, following the substantial end-1979
price increases, has a major impact on future prospects. Even if Turkey
allows only a marginal increase in oil imports during 1980-1985 to sustain a
gradual resumption of growth, the oil import bill is estimated to increase
from $3.2 billion in 1980 to $6.1 billion by 1985; as a percentage of
merchandise exports and non-factor services, this is equivalent to about 83
percent in 1980 and is likely to remain at about 70 percent until 1985. The
pressure this will exert on Turkey's already difficult balance of payments
position is obvious. The projected current account deficit as a percent of
GNP in current dollars increased from 3 percent in 1979 to about 8 percent
in 1980 and is projected to remain at or above 5 percent until 1984. Con-
sidering the limitation on available external assistance and given the need
for continued sound external debt management, Turkey can sustain the pro-
jected annual current account deficits of the order of $3-3.5 billion
annually in the short run, given further quick-disbursing assistance in
1981; the deficits are projected to decline steadily thereafter.
24.      Taking into account international inflation and the substantial
obligations for debt amortization, despite the July 80 debt rescheduling,
this situation necessitates a large and sharply increasing annual average
gross inflow of foreign capital, rising to $4 to 5 billion during the next
five years.   Such major inflows of foreign capital can only be sustained on
the basis of prudent external debt management. In any case, debt service
obligations are likely to remain high over the coming 5 years. In 1979,
total debt service payments were 26 percent of exports of goods, non-factor
services and workers' remittances after rescheduling payments. The ratio is
projected to rise to around 45 percent in 1984, taking account of the July
1980 debt rescheduling. This, however, should represent the culmination of
the financial consequences of the present crisis and the debt burden should
remain manageable, provided the structural adjustment policies are success-
fully implemented and the export drive is sustained.
25.      Given the accumulation of economic problems of the last three
years, the political difficulties, the significantly increased cost of oil
imports, and the difficulty of significantly increasing the net inflow of
capital, Bank projections suggest that GDP growth in real terms may average
around 4 percent p.a., with a real growth of exports about 9 percent p.a.,
during 1980-1985. These growth rates appear attainable, assuming continua-
tion of appropriate economic measures (including those announced in January
1980), and taking into account the low export base and present underutiliza-
tion of capacity.



-9-
26.      The recent political changes do not change these expectations
regarding economic developments. The military government which assumed
power on September 12 is determined to pursue the program of structural
adjustments announced in January1980, as well as economic policies and
commitments agreed with the Bank, IMF and members of the QEOD Consortium
for Turkey. Indeed, two days after the takeover, both the Bank and the IMF
were officially informed of this decision. A civilian Cabinet, responsible
to the military's new National Security Council, has been named, with the
principal architect of the recent economic policy reforms, Mr. Ozal, assum-
ing the position of Deputy Prime Minister for economic affairs. Its program
confirms the commitment to continue implementing the January 1980 program,
and the intention to introduce those portions of it which have been blocked
*            hitherto by deadlock in Parliament.
PART II - NEW ECONOMIC POLICIES
27.      The January 1980 program of structural adjustments in the economy,
was a radical departure from economic policies pursued by Turkey over the
last two decades. Measures were introduced with its announcement and again
in June/July 1980 to implement some of the key policies of this program.
The Bank supported this process through the first Structural Adjustment Loan
for $200 million, approved in March 1980, and will support its continuing
implementation through the proposed loan.
28.      The new policy objectives, as well as the area  and directions of
initiatives taken, are explained in a letter dated February 7, 1980 to Mr.
McNamara from the Undersecretary to the Prime Minister (Annex IV) and have
already been outlined in paragraph 15. Essentially, they focus on four main
areas; (a) export promotion, through a rational exchange rate policy and
financial and institutional incentives; (b) improved domestic resource
mobilization efforts, through an increased tax effort, gradual reform of the
SEE sector and interest rate liberalization; (c) formulation and pursuit of
rational public investment policies; and (d) improved external debt manage-
ment. These four areas were emphasized and monitored under the first
Structural Adjustment Loan since they are critical to begin restoring
viability to the economy and to spearheading the process of structural
adjustments over the medium term. The first review of that loan took place
in June 1980. Based on adequate progress being made in the aforementioned
areas, the second tranche was released, as reported to the Executive
Directors through a memorandum (Sec M80-596) dated August 1, 1980. The
second review took place in early October and concluded that progress
remained satisfactory. The final tranche of the loan was therefore released
on October 23, as reported to the Executive Directors through a memorandum
(Sec 1480-804) dated October 24, 1980. Progress to date in implementing the
Government's structural adjustment program, which is also the basis for the
proposed loan, is set out below. Further progress in the four major areas
will continue to be monitored (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07 and Schedule 5).



- 10 -
Export Policies and Performance
29.      Export Policies;  Following the January 1980 program, the range
of financial incentives for exports already included the more realistic
exchange rate introduced in January 1980, export rebates of 5 to 30 percent
of export value, a foreign exchange retention scheme which left 50 percent
of their receipts to exporters of manufactures and minerals, and some degree
of preferential access for exporters to both foreign exchange and cheap
domestic credit. That program also centralized responsibility for export
promotion in a new department of the State Planning Organization (SPO).
Since then, a new dynamism in, and more effective implementation of, export
policy are clearly visible. In connection with the new 3 year IMF Standby,
there has been a major breakthrough whereby the Government has announced and
pursued for the first time a more flexible exchange rate policy of making
adjustments to avoid broken cross rates and small devaluations at more
frequent periods. Together, these have taken the rate from TL 70 in January
1980 to TL 82.7 = $1.00 by October 12, 1980. Exporters can now have more
confidence that competitiveness will be maintained, which removes a major
uncertainty experienced under previous exchange rate policies.
30.      The other most important incentive, the foreign exchange retention
scheme, was broadened in May 1980 to allow exporters of fruit and vegetables
and fishery products, as well as Turkish contractors working abroad, to
retain 10 percent of their earnings. On the other hand, socialist countries
have been excluded, since Turkey needs to eliminate a large positive trade
balance with these countries but is offered only a limited choice of
high-priced import items. This foreign exchange, which could already be
used either by the exporter or his subcontractor, can now also be sold in
the market. Exporters' access to foreign exchange improved further, when
commercial banks were required in May 1980 to give top priority to the
import needs of exporters, and use 50 percent of their authorized foreign
exchange positions for such transfers. Since January, such imports have
been exempted from all customs and related duties and fees. Even more
important, exporters may import inputs regardless of the provisions of the
import licensing system. Exporting has thus been freed from some of the
major disincentives imposed by Turkey's long-standing protection system.
31.      A study for the purpose of introducing a more rational protection
and incentive system based on tariffs for industry was however not initiated
by April 30, as agreed under the first Structural Adjustment Loan. The
matter has been resolved through understandings reached during negotiations
of the proposed loan, on the detailed objectives, scope, methodology,
organization and timetable of the study. It will be undertaken in two
phases. The first phase, which the Government has agreed to complete by
January 31, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. l(a)), will be a
short-term review, involving a scan of all manufacturing industries by an
inter-agency expert group to identify distortions. It is expected to lead
to early action, through changes in the 1981 import regime and other
relevant policies. Criteria for the first phase changes are aimed at
increasing export capability and capacity utilization, and removing



- 11 -
bottlenecks. The second phase involves an in-depth study of export
incentives, the import regime, and investment incentives. It will commence
by March 1981. A qualified full-time coordinator and other experts
reporting to SPO will calculate, for representative firms in selected
industries, incentive indicators (nominal and effective protection and
effective subsidies) and cost-benefit indicators (domestic resource costs
and economic rates of return), and relate them to firm attributes relevant
for policy. Alongside this research, policy papers with recommendations for
reform, and restructuring programs to assist affected industries, will be
prepared. The work will take until the end of 1982, about nine months after
the original date under the first loan; but under the revised arrangements,
reforms will be introduced en route, as they are ready.  The new system
resulting from the liberalization program will be fully in place by the end
of 1984, which was the original expectation under the first loan.
32.      Meanwhile, exporters' access to domestic credit improved further as
of May 1, 1980. Since this date, they have been able to obtain working
capital loans with a maturity of up to 12 months and in amounts of up to 80
percent of the export value. In addition, the Central Bank's Export Promo-
tion Fund, set up in January 1980, rediscounts term loans provided to
exporters by commercial banks for investment projects; such loans are also
available from development banks, especially TSKB under its thirteenth Bank
loan approved in July 1979. Export credit is granted at preferential
interest rates; its total effective cost is currently as follows: short-
term credit (up to 1 year) costs 17.4 percent for industrial products and
19.0 percent for others; medium-term credit (up to 5 years) costs 20 percent
with an export incentive certificate; and long-term credit costs 29 percent
with an export commitment. This constitutes a very large subsidy when
compared to effective costs, for loans without any concessions, of 49 - 56.5
percent depending on maturity.
33.      Several ways of improving the institutional arrangements for
promoting exports are under discussion within the Government, which has
agreed to implement such improvements as may be needed (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, para. 1(c)). It has already issued a decree facilitating the
establishment of specialized exporting and importing companies and giving
them most of the incentives available to manufacturer-exporters. Also,
since January 1980, the exporters' unions, which used to dominate agricul-
tural exports and limit individual producers' freedom in exporting, have
become relatively inactive. Finally, the Government has prepared a draft
decree for an export credit risk insurance scheme, and has agreed to estab-
lish the scheme by March 31, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. l(b)).
This exceeds the agreement reached under the first Structural Adjustment
Loan, under which only a review of the interim arrangements reportedly made
in January 1980 was to have been completed by October 31, 1980.
34.      Despite the official acceptance of a flexible exchange rate policy
and adherence to it, the Government's increased focus on exports and the
steady improvement in most incentives offered for exporting, export per-
formance over the first eight months of 1980 was generally disappointing.



- 12 -
In 1979, exports declined by 17 percent in volume and by 1 percent in value
over the record 1978 level, and totalled $2.3 billion. Agricultural exports
actually declined by 13 percent in value, while manufactures increased by 26
percent. Exports of a wide range of items were adversely affected by a
variety of factors; periodic unfavorable relationships between export and
domestic prices, uncertainty regarding the exchange rate and its belated
adjustment, shortages of fuel, fertilizers and material inputs, rising costs
of domestic materials, weakness in external demand, and EEC restrictions.
By contrast, over the first eight months of 1980 values were 6 percent
higher at $1.6 billion than in the corresponding period of 1979, but in
volume terms, exports continued to decline. Agricultural exports have in-
creased by only 6 percent in value over the corresponding months of 1979;
and there appears to have been a sharp decline in volume. This has been due
in part to low stocks in early 1980, in contrast to the early 1979 position
when stocks reflected a failure to export in late 1978. Manufactured
exports have grown by 4 percent in value, and also declined somewhat in
volume. These results may partly reflect decisions taken in late 1979, when
the exchange rate became increasingly overvalued. In respect of manufatured
exports, the decline may partly be due to the fact that production of key
items was adversely affected up to September 1980, by strikes and power
shortages. However, the Government hopes that export performance will
improve significantly over the remainder of 1980, reflecting the effect of
the large January devaluation, the flexible exchange rate policy adopted in
mid 1980, the new agricultural support prices, the usual seasonal increase
in agricultural exports, and increased finance for crop purchases, the
slowing down of inflation and the end of several labor disputes. Under the
proposed loan, the Bank will continue to monitor the adequacy of the Govern-
ment's export promotion policies and administrative measures (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.07 and Schedule 5, para. 1).
Domestic Resource Mobilization
35.      Insufficient domestic resource mobilization, combined with an
ambitious investment drive, was a significant factor that contributed to the
economic crisis. This has been a critical area where inadequate attention
was being focused until recently by Turkish governments. Turkey ranks
fairly well among developing countries as regards "tax effort", with tax
revenues accounting for about 20 percent of GDP in 1980. However, a
disturbing trend in recent years is the steady decline in tax elasticity
(from 1.8 in 1975 to an estimated 1.0 in 1980). The past growth of tax
revenues was generally due to escalating inflation, given the high progres-
sivity of income tax rates; but recently, these developments have made it
advantageous for taxpayers to delay payments and either resort to litigation
or pay a penalty (32 percent in the case of a full year's delay). Govern-
ments rarely presented tax packages to Parliament in recent years (there was
one in 1978), nor has Parliament passed a tax package in the last 9 years.
As part of the January 1980 program of structural adjustments, the Govern-
ment announced its intention to augment domestic resource mobilization, in
part, through changes in the tax laws. It presented two tax reform bills to
Parliament in February. The major proposal of the financial stabilization



- 13 -
bill is to restructure the income tax schedule to reflect recent inflation,
and exempt from income tax on equity grounds, those earning the statutory
minimum wage or less; it would also reduce or eliminate taxes on profits
from exporting. While its net revenue impact is likely to be marginal, it
could significantly affect incentives and the climate for acceptance of
current austerity measures through a more equitable system of taxation. The
second bill would replace certain production taxes with a value-added tax,
and is expected to generate additional net revenue. Opposition and the
deadlock in Parliament prevented the passage of these bills. However, the
new military Government and civilian Cabinet have stated publicly their
intention to enact these, or modified, bills shortly. The changes to be
made may reflect the significant scope for increasing resource mobilization,
through greater emphasis on indirect taxation, including excise and other
taxes on consumption. Under the proposed loan, the Bank will continue to
monitor the adequacy of the Government's measures to increase domestic
resource mobilization, including the objective of minimizing overall deficit
financing in the public sector in 1980 and 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.07 and Schedule 5, para. 3).
36.      An improvement in domestic resource mobilization depends also on
improved SEE performance. The operating deficits of SEEs have strained the
budget in recent years; their borrowings from the Central Bank for their
ambitious investment programs have contributed to inflationary pressures.
Since late 1977 the government has attempted to reduce these deficits by
allowing periodic sizeable price increases. A major change in the economic
framework governing SEEs has been initiated under the January 1980 program,
under which price controls on commodities and services produced by SEEs were
abolished (with very few exceptions), and the SEEs were required to cover
their operating costs and generate funds towards their investment needs
through price changes and efficiency improvements. While operating
subsidies to SEEs are to be eliminated eventually (except to compensate for
the remaining few subsidized SEE prices), budgetary transfers will continue
to be made for some priority SEE investments. The latest official estimates
show that, despite massive SEE price increases in 1980, budgetary transfers
to SEEs and borrowing by them from the Central Bank, to finance their
investments and debt repayments, will show a further large increase in
1980. However, the Government intends in the next two years progressively
to reduce direct borrowing by the public sector from the Central Bank, and
to eventually restrict SEEs' recourse to the Central Bank only for seasonal
needs and export financing.
37.      The above development is not an unexpected one.  Having lived in a
controlled environment and often having relatively inefficient managements,
one must expect that the SEEs would initially find the reorientation
difficult. Nevertheless, pursuit of this structural change is beginning to
exert pressure on the SEE managements to take measures to improve efficiency
and productivity. Some progress has been made in 1980 towards their finan-
cial objectives. Prices have been raised consistently by the Boards of
major SEEs; for example, between January and August 1980 electricity tariffs



- 14 -
have been raised 126 percent, paper products 135-344 percent, iron and steel
60-80 percent, coal and lignite 100 percent, gasoline 36-45 percent and
other petroleum products 100-120 percent, and textiles about 100 percent.
Further increases in the prices of petroleum products (10 to 21 percent),
fertilizer (9 to 67 percent) and sugar (20 to 27 percent) were announced in
mid September, designed to yield an additional TL 90 billion in a 12 month
period. The present official forecast is for SEE sales revenues to rise
from TL 428 billion in 1979 to TL 1,131 billion in 1980, eliminating the
mounting operating deficits of recent years.
38.      The use of interest rate policy as an effective means of financial-
izing savings, is clearly recognized in the January 1980 program of struc-
tural adjustments. Given the recent high rates of inflation and the pros-
pects of reducing them only gradually in the medium term, the Government
recognizes the negative impact which inflation can have on the financializa-
tion of savings.  As an initial step in implementing the structural adjust-
ment objective in this areta, interest rates on deposits of 4 years or more
and on loans of 5 years or more were liberalized.  The Government sub-
sequently went much further and faster than expected, and agreed in the
context of the first Structural Adjustment Loan.  On July 1, 1980, it
liberalized rates on all time deposits and loans.  Since then, the com-
mercial banks have agreed among themselves to raise existing deposit rates
by 4 to 12 percent, depending on the maturity; for example, rates on
deposits of 6 months have increased from 12 to 16 percent, whi.le those on
deposits of 4 years or more have risen from 26 to 38 percent. Actual
negotiated rates on competing "savings schemes" may be higher.. However,
rates on sight deposits, as well as the 15 percent rate on 6-month deposits,
remain low. Lending rates have also risen, with short-term credit now at
30 percent, medium-term at: 33 percent and long-term at 36 percent, before
taking account of taxes and fees.  The effective cost of long--term credit to
borrowers not receiving any incentives goes as high as 56.5 percent. The
authorities intend to ensure that the deregulation of interest: rates is
fully implemented and will lead to rates reflecting inflationary expecta-
tions.  Further, the ceiling interest rates on private bonds have been
raised to 28 to 32 percent:, depending on maturity. Sales of Government
bonds yielding 30 percent tax free and with 6-month maturity have started on
a substantial scale, and may succeed in forcing interest rates on short-term
bank deposits to move upwards even further.  In addition, certain un-
regulated brokers who have been offering higher rates than commercial banks
are maintaining their competitive stance.
39.       There has already been a significant response to these new
developments, with total deposits growing TL 48 billion in JuLy, only
slightly less than the total increase over the January to June period (TL 55
billion); holdings of time deposits grew by TL 11.6 billion in July,
compared to an increase oi TL 6.5 billion over the previous six months. In
addition, the introduction of bearer certificates of deposit as of July 1,
1980 appears to have successfully brought into the organized financial
system some of the profits from the considerable volume of parallel market
activity of the last two years. Indications clearly are that, for the first



- 15 -
time in years, the interest rate regime is being used as a major policy
instrument to stimulate the flow of savings into financial assets.
Public Investment
40.      The January 1980 program emphasized that, "since control of infla-
tion is more important at present than the past Turkish strategy of concen-
trating only on higher growth," the projected level of annual investments
must be rigorously tailored to the availability of scarce resources each
year. The official estimates for 1980 have been progressively reduced in
the course of the year. The current projection of Government and SEE
investment is TL 333 billion. Given the likely inflation rate of close to
100 percent, this implies a real fall in public investment of around 14
percent in 1980, the second consecutive year for real public investment to
decline.   The effective constraint on total public investment continues to
be the IMF Standby's limit on the increase in Central Bank credit to the
public sector.
41.      In addition to greater restraint on the overall level of invest-
ment, the Government is making continued efforts to channel such expendi-
tures towards projects meeting strict investment criteria articulated in the
context of the January 1980 program and appropriate to Turkey's present
economic circumstances. The criteria being used in 1980 are substantially
those spelled out in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement for the first
Structural Adjustment Loan, in particular as regards; (a) the removal of
critical bottlenecks - there is strong emphasis on energy and associated
mining projects; the only significant new investments undertaken recently
have been in these sectors, with the share of total investment going to
these sectors reaching a record 40 percent; (b) the completion of ongoing
projects requiring modest additional resources to yield speedy returns -
projects over 80 percent completed, and which can be completed in 1980 or
early 1981, have been selected; and (c) exportoriented projects. Also,
projects meeting these criteria, and with foreign financing entirely or
mostly secured (including Bank-financed ones), are being implemented as fast
as available scarce resources permit. Although resources do not yet permit
substantial movement in these directions, the Government aims to move next
to rehabilitation/renewal investments and then to some new infrastructure
projects aimed at increasing employment.
42.      Under the first loan, an understanding was reached that, in the
event of an overall shortfall, resources available for public investment
would be concentrated on a set of priority projects in a list submitted to
the Bank. Two-thirds of them are energy- related, and 12 will be completed
this year. Projected expenditures in 1980 on these priority projects have
been increased substantially in real terms over the initial allocations in
the Annual Program. Their share of total public investment in 1980 is now
expected to rise from 17 percent initially to 28 percent. Expenditures on
these projects were TL 32 billion in the first six months of 1980, and a
further TL 26 billion in July and August together. The Government has thus
carried out its intentions as articulated to the Bank under the first loan.



- 16 -
Under the proposed loan, the Bank will continue to monitor the adequacy of
the Government's measures to harmonize public investments, including those
of SEEs in 1980 and 1981, with the available financial resources and its
priority criteria for investment that: (i) existing productive capacity be
used efficiently and fully and critical bottlenecks removed; (ii) on-going
projects be completed which, with modest additional resources, can be
expected to yield speedy returns; and (iii) new productive projects stress
exports and employment generation (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07 and
Schedule 5, para. 2).
External Debt
43.      A prudent debt management policy is essential, if Turkey's debt
service ratio is to be maintained at a reasonable level and foreign capital
inflows are to be sufficient to sustain the recovery of the economy.
External debt management has improved considerably, especially since early
1980. The Government has progressively resolved several difficult issues,
greatly improved its knowledge of the stock of debt outstanding and its
future debt service obligations, and instituted most of the elements of a
sound external debt management policy. The objectives of this policy are;
(1) an improvement in the repayment profile of short- and medium-term debts
through rescheduling, and the containment of short-term indebtedness, so as
to alleviate the debt servicing burden; and (2) the contracting of new
external credits on as long-term and concessional a basis as possible. Con-
siderable progress has been made towards both objectives. The growth of
short-term and other commercial debt has been contained. The buildup of
arrears, which was rapid until mid 1980, appears to have been stopped. Very
large amounts of short-term debt have been rescheduled, converting them into
medium-term liabilities. Proposals were made in January 1980, and
substantially improved in May and July, to reschedule or otherwise settle
unguaranteed trade credit arrears of some $1.8 billion. While the initial
response has been slow, the July amendment to the proposals is expected to
speed up matters shortly. In connection with the new IMF standby, the
Government has undertaken not to allow any new arrears to arise over the
next year, and to reschedule or repay other existing arrears within three
years from now. The maturity structure of medium and long-term obligations
has been improved by three reschedulings of debt to members of the OECD
Consortium for Turkey (paras. 13 and 18). The Government has also under-
taken in connection with the new Standby to limit new commitments of 1 to
5 years maturity to $500 million, and those of 1 to 10 years maturity to
$1 billion, over the next year.
44.      Progress made in the compilation and analysis of debt data, and
evolving a viable debt management policy, exceeds the agreement made on
these matters in the context of the first Structural Adjustment Loan.
Instead of completing its ongoing comprehensive study on external debt
management only by October 31, 1980, the Government by July 1980 prepared
for the first time, in connection with the July 1980 OECD rescheduling
exercise, not only a detailed and reasonably comprehensive compilation of
the voluminous debt data for 1979, but also well-conceived alternative



- 17 -
rescheduling proposals. Given the framework established and relief afforded
by the July 1980 rescheduling, and provided current external debt management
policies continue to be consistently adhered to, as they show prospects of
being, the external debt situation is essentially under control, even though
a parallel rescheduling by commercial banks (para. 18) would be desirable.
For comprehensive analysis of future policy options, the Government has
recognized that internal reporting of the utilization of external loans must
be improved and the whole large and complex volume of external debt data
computerized.  In September, it therefore requested Bank assistance in
computerization. It has decided that the Ministry of Finance should be
responsible for setting up and maintaining the centralized system. Under-
standings were reached at negotiations on the organizational arrangements,
the plan of action and timetable, and projected Bank assistance. Given the
complexity of the task, the capacity to undertake further detailed debt
management studies will only be established by the end of 1981. However,
this will not pose problems since no major rescheduling exercises requiring
this capability are expected meanwhile. The project will lead to the
production thereafter of projected debt profiles under various assumptions,
which will be provided to senior officials for purposes of decisions on
external debt management policies. Under the proposed loan, the Bank will
continue to monitor the maintenance of sound external debt management poli-
cies, and the computerization of the external debt data (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.07 and Schedule 5, para. 4).
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN
Introduction
45.      As discussed in Parts I and II, in January 1980, the Government
embarked on a bold policy to bring about "a fundamental reorientation of the
Turkish economy" over the medium term, and has since initiated a series of
measures to bring about structural changes in the key areas of economic
management. Recognizing the gravity of Turkey's economic problems and the
policies pursued over recent years which gave rise to them, it must be
expected that these structural changes will take some time before their
effects become clearly manifested and conditions which would permit the
resumption of sustainable growth are restored.  Meanwhile, the program of
structural adjustments deserves, and requires, substantial support in terms
of external funds, without which it is unlikely to be successful. The
Structural Adjustment Loan I for $200 million, approved by the Executive
Directors in March 1980, was the Bank's initial support for these Turkish
efforts. Satisfactory progress led to the release of the second tranche on
July 30 (SecM 80-596 dated August 1, 1980), and of the final tranche on
October 23 (Sec M80-804 dated October 24, 1980). The amount provided under
the first loan was however based on a conservative estimate of Turkey's
needs over a twelve month period, and on assumptions as to the extent of
other external support Turkey was likely to obtain through the OECD
Consortium. The Executive Directors were advised in the Board presentation
of that loan that consideration would be given later in 1980 to a further



- 18 -
loan to support Turkey's January 1980 program, should that be warranted by
the progress made. The proposed loan of $75 million provides additional
support to the January 1980 program, based on satisfactory performance and
current assessment of requirements.
Performance Under the First Structural Adjustment Loan
46.      Administrative Aspects:  The Government has fully committed the
loan, with private firms receiving allocations exceeding the target of $65
million. Disbursements reached $128 million as of October 21. Given
Turkey's import requirements for the eligible commodities, additional funds
are required against which it can make further commitments. Disbursements
under the first loan are expected to be completed early in 1981. The
counterpart funds are being channelled to five of the Government's highest
priority energy projects, including the Bank-financed Elbistan and Karakaya
projects.
47.      Economic Management;  The progress made in implementing the
structural reforms in key areas since the January 1980 program, has been
satisfactory, as discussed in Part II. Under the first loan, progress was
to be evaluated in four major areas: exports, domestic resource mobil-
ization, public investment and external debt management. These specific
actions/measures are described in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement for the
first loan; the targets and the progess to date are summarized in the
following Table and evaluated in para. 52.



- 19 -
PERFORMANCE UNDER STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I
Agreed Areas of Review                                                                         Assessment of Performance
1.  Exports
Adequacy of export promotion policies and                      Policy measures taken but export response lagging.  Export volume droli-ed by 17% in 1979.
administrative measures to facilitate average                  Target is not expected to be met in 1980 despite much farther reaching policy actions; export
real growth of exports of not less than 10                    volume expected to grow by 3%.
per annum 1979-1983, including:
(a)  Review by October 31, 1980 of interim                     (a) (i)  The Government went further than agreement, and has proposed a draft decree for a
arrangements established to cover:                                 permanent scheme.  Tt has agreed under the proposed loan to establish the scheme by
March 31, 1981.
(i)  export credit risk insurance; and
(ii)  priority access to credit for                           (ii)  From May 1, 1980, well in advance of the target date, a new decree was passed, which
exporters.                                                    enabled exporters to obtain working capital Iass for up to 80% of eoport value, for
op to I year.  Central Bank funds, as well as development banks, are being coed to
provide term credit for exporters. Highly coscessional interest rates are charged on
all export credits, especially since interest rates rose sharply after their liberali-
nation in July.
(b)  Completion by October 31, 1980 of ongoing                 (b)  Government has progreosed further than agreed.  A major step has been the centralization
review of institutional arrangements to                        of responsibility within the Government for export promotion in a new Department of the
promote exports.                                               SPO. A July decree facilitates the establishment of specialized exporting companies and
offers them most incentives available to nanufacturer-exporters. Proposals to establish
free trade cones and trade renters for individual industries are being prepared. Adminis-
trative procedures are being progressively simplified.
(c)  Initiation by April 30, 1980 of a study                   (c)  Initiation of the study delayed but understanding has now been reached on all aspects of
to introduce a mere rational proteotiom                        the study.  The first phase, to be completed by January 31, 1981, will be a short-tern
and incentive system based on tariffs for                      review of manufacturing industry to identify distortions, leading to earlier action than
industry.                                                      anticipated through changes in the 1981 import regime and related policies, and aiming
at increasing export capability and rapacity utilization, and at removiog bottlenecks. The
second phase will be an in-depth study of export incentives, the import regime, and
investment incentives, along with policy papers recommending reforms and restructuring
programs for affected industries. Completion is scheduled for end 1982, nine months after
the original date; but reforms are to be introduced en route as ready. The liberalioed
system is to be fully in place by end 1984, the original expectation.
2.  Domestic Resource Mobilization
Adequacy of measures to increase domestic resource
mobilieation including:
(a)  Objective of eliminating overall public                   (a)  The SEE.' operating deficit in 1980 will be eliminated through removal of almost all
sector deficit financing in 1980.                              controls on their pri-es arder the January program, followed by massive price icr-ases
yielding 164% more sales revenue than in 1979. Budgetary transfers to SEEs have in-
creased, however, dse to repayment of arrears and consolidation of taxes. The overall
budget deficit will increase substantially above expectatios, despite control of ropes-
ditures, becauoe of lagging revenues and the impact of inflation. The limits on Ce-tral
Bank credit under the IMF standby arrangement are to be increased slightly, hut will re-
main the same proportion of GNP as in 1979.
(b)  Review by July 31, 1980 of adequacy of                    (b)  Actions taken far emceed thin commitment.  The Government has completely freed interest
measures to increase household savings and                     rates on deposits of 6 months or more maturity and most lending rates as of Jolv 1, 1980.
time deposits.                                                 The banks have raised deposit rates 4-12 percent depending on maturity; e.g., as compared
with January 1980, rates on 6 month deposits have risen from 13 to 16 percent and on 4 year
or more deposits from 26 to 38 percent. The ceiling interest rate or pri-ate bonds has
been revised from 25 percent to 28-32 percent (gross of too) depending on maturity; the
yield on Government bonds has been raised from 18 to 30 percent (tax free).
(c)  Review of financial sector study.                         (c)  The study was discussed with a Bank mission in March 1980; its principal recommendations
have either been implemented or will be implemented shortly.  The following measures have
already been taken; liberalization of interest rates, a new Banking Law to limit
shareholdings of industrial groups in commercial banks and increases in yields on private
and Government bonds. A draft capital market bill has been prepared for enactment within a
year; its major provisions are for a regulatory authority for the stock and bond markets,
and for commercial banks to undertake portfolio management for clients like a uoit trust,
with incentiven for investors to participate.
3. Public Investment
i
Adequacy of measures to harmonize public                            (i)  The overall level of teal public investment projected for 1980 has been reduced in
investments, including those of 8SEs in 1980                             several stages to conform to available resources and Standby limits on Central Bank
and 1981, with:                                                          credit; actual outlays have been very limited in the first eight months of the year and
Ci)  available resources; and                                           the current program implies a 14 percent decline in real terms for the whole year from
(ii)  investment priority criteria                                       the 1979 level.
(ii)  The criteria being used for allocations are appropriate to Turkey's present economic
situation: removal of critical bottlenecks (40 percent of the total is currently being
spent on energy and mining projects); completion of ongoing projects (over 80 percent
complete and within a year of completion) and those with foreign financing secured; and
export-oriented projects. As projected real investment has een lowered, the reduced
resources have been concentrated on 30 priority projects--largely energy-related--
listed for the Bank.
4.  External Debt
Completion by October 31, 1980 of ongoing study on             External debt managesent has improved progressively, and the work done has h-n  ruch more than
external debt management.                                      agreed.  Under the IMF Standby Arrangement, the Government has agreod,  (i) to specific limits
on the terms of new MALT commitments over the nest 12 months; (ii) not to allow any new arrears
over the next 12 months; and (iii) to reschedule or repay existing arrears within 3 years.
Proposals have also been made to reschedule unguaranteed trade sriesrs. 'h. rescheduling of
about $2.5 billion of debt servicing obligations t. OEtS countries has substastially improved
the debt profile. Because of the considerable improvement in Turkey's debt nanagement, the
study on nasagemeot policies is sow unnecessary. Rather, for cosprehensive analysis of future
policy options, the Government intends to improve internal reporting, and compoteri-e external
debt data with Bank assistance, under the proposed loan. Understanding has heen reached on a
plan of action, organieational arrangements, the timetable and projected Pan' assistance.
Completion is scheduled for end 1981 and will lead to the production of projected debt profiles
to facilitate prudent debt management policies.



- 20 -
Macroeconomic Considerations Underlying the Proposed Loan
48.      Turkey continues to suffer from an acute shortage of foreign
exchange. The position, based on data for 1979 and the latest projections
for 1980 and 1981, and excluding the possible impact which the Iran-Iraq war
may have on Turkey's oil imports (since it relies on these two countries for
55 percent of its oil supplies), is summarized in the Table below:
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES OF FINANCE (1979-81)
$ millions)
1979     1980      1981
(Actual)  (Est.)   (Proj.)
Foreign Exchange Requirements                         7044     8830    10700
Imports of goods and NFS                              5699     7300      8400 /1
Of which:  Oil                                      (1759)   (3200)   (3800)
Interest /2                                            930     1020      1410
Amortization /2                                        365      510       880
Others                                                  50        -        10
Foreign Exchange Receipts                             4951     5600      6500
Exports of goods and NFS                              3257      3800     4500
Of which;  Goods                                    (2261)   (2800)   (3400)
Workers' remittances                                  1694      1800     2000
Capital Inflows                                       1791     3200      4200 /1
1.  Identified Capital                                1791     3200      2260
a.   Foreign Private Capital                      209       175       200
b.   Disbursements from M&LT Commitments
as of end-1980:                             1434      2175      1840
c.   Short-Term, IMF and Other Sources             148      850       220
2.  Gap to be filled by multilateral, bilateral
and commercial sources                             -         -       1940
Use of Reserves (- = increase)                          74        30       -
Errors and Omissions                                   228        -        -
/1 Level of imports contingent on adequacy of capital inflows.
/2 Net of debt relief agreed in 1978, 1979 and 1980.
49.      For 1980 and 1981, the current account deficit (after debt relief)
based on latest projections is estimated to be $2.7 and $3.3 billion
respectively. The foreign exchange requirements in these years, including
the containment of oil imports to their volume in 1977, minimal non-oil
imports and the still relatively heavy debt service burden, are $8.8 billion



- 21 -
and $10.7 billion respectively. Against that, foreign exchange receipts
(exports and workers' remittances) in 1980 and 1981 are likely to be $5.6
billion and $6.5 billion respectively. Capital inflows from all sources are
estimated to amount to $3.2 billion in 1980, including $2.2 billion in
disbursements of M&LT credits and $1.0 billion from all other sources,
sufficient to fill the financing gap. In 1981, required capital inflows are
projected at $4.2 billion, of which only $2.3 billion is presently in sight,
leaving a financing gap of $1.9 billion.
50.      The projections presented here update those made in the President's
Report on the first Structural Adjustment Loan dated February 29, 1980. For
1980, estimated foreign exchange requirements have decreased by $300 mil-
lion, as an increase in non-oil imports has been offset by unexpectedly
generous debt relief. However, foreign exchange receipts have decreased by
$550 million, as both exports and workers' remittances have been lower than
expected. There has been an increase in expected capital inflows to close
the balance of payments gap for the year. For 1981, projected foreign
exchange requirements are $200 million higher than those projected in
February, with an increase in both oil and non-oil imports only partly
offset by debt relief. Foreign exchange receipts are now projected to be
$650 million lower, with shortfalls in both exports ($150 million) and
workers' remittances ($500 million). As a result, capital inflows required
are higher by some $850 million. A greater proportion of such inflows can
now be identified, as is natural given the lapse of time, but as mentioned
above a gap of $1.9 billion remains. Despite the pledges of aid granted oy
OECD countries in April, the three-year IMF Standby Agreement, and the debt
relief given in July, substantial financing is still required for 1981. The
proposed loan would thus provide only a small portion of the needs.
51.      As noted above, the projections are based on minimal levels of
imports and on reasonable assumptions about oil price increases. Should
disbursements from new credits not materialize at the level necessary or in
time to cover the gap in 1981, this would inevitably be reflected in a lower
level of imports. An immediate consequence would be a further drop in the
already low level of capacity utilization and output. Economic recovery
would be delayed, and consequently the country's capacity to service debts
would be hampered. It is therefore essential that adequate new funds be
made available in time, and on reasonable terms. A shortfall could
jeopardize the international arrangements made to support Turkey's return to
orderly development and self-sustaining growth on a viable basis in the
medium term.
52.      The progress made to date in implementation of the Government's
program is generally impressive. The introduction of a flexible exchange
rate and the liberalization of interest rates are radical policy changes far
exceeding Bank expectations when the first Structural Adjustment Loan was
made in March this year. Similarly, in respect of actions and institutional
arrangements to boost export performance, a continuous series of actions to
provide incentives was taken instead of reviews of interim arrangements.
While the agreed policy actions have been taken, and indeed exceeded, export



- 22 -
performance has so far been disappointing as noted above. In the field of
external debt, Turkey again surpassed expectations in the speed with which
it was able to compile, with a reasonable degree of accuracy, its
medium- and long-term debts and put together a debt management strategy. To
a large extent, however, its future policy in this area will have to reflect
the terms it obtained at the OECD debt rescheduling meeting, which by and
large were much more favorable than previous arrangements and will provide
considerable relief in 1980 and 1981. However, certain policy reforms have
not proceeded without difficulty. The failure to pass tax legislation, due
to the political situation, has been a major problem; but with the recent
political changes, prospects for early enactment have improved signifi-
cantly. Also, there has been little progress hitherto on the protection
study agreed under the first Structural Adjustment Loan, which is a central
feature of continuing the adjustment of the economy. However, the under-
standings now reached should lead to earlier action than anticipated
previously. On balance, the Government's program of structural adjustments
and policy reforms, which constitutes the basis for the Bank's structural
adjustment lending, is being implemented satisfactorily. Continued Bank
support is therefore warranted. Negotiations were held in Washington in
September-October 1980 with a delegation headed by Mr. Altinok, Chief
Financial and Economic Counselor at the Embassy in Washington.
53.      Loan Amount and Allocation:  The proposed loan of $75 million will
finance only about 1 percent of Turkey's total merchandise imports in 1981,
and around 6 percent of imports of eligible items. There will thus be no
displacement of alternative financing on acceptable terms available to
Turkey, either generally or for the eligible commodities.
54.      The commodities to be financed are the same major groups as under
the first loan. The proposed allocations are based on a reappraisal of
current needs in the context of the experience since 1978.  The chosen items
will have high direct impact on the utilization of capacity in user
sectors. It must however be recognized that the loan will not lead to full
utilization of installed capacities in most cases, because of other
continuing bottlenecks such as energy and domestic credit which can only be
gradually rectified. Manv commodities proposed for financing are essential
inputs, direct and indirect, for most of Turkey's agricultural and indus-
trial items. In the lighi: of the serious balance of payments situation,
high priority continues to be given to commodities whose imports have
significant direct or ind:Lrect export impact. However, in view of the
restricted and varied nature of the imported inputs for exportable goods, it
is difficult to specifically include in the loan amounts for the direct
inputs going into goods enhancing export earnings. Unlike the 1978 Program
Loan, resources for the needs of exporters are not being financed under the
first Structural Adjustment Loan, nor would they be financed under the
proposed loan, since they should be available in sufficient quantity under
the 50 percent automatic retention and other schemes.
55.      The proposed allocations reflect the Government's proposal that the
loan proceeds be allocatec to the two main categories supported by the first
loan; (a) essential inputts for the agricultural sector, i.e.. inputs for



- 23 -
fertilizers and pesticide industries and formulated pesticides ($45
million); (b) inputs for industries which support a large number of other
manufacturing industries, i.e. steel and other inputs for the steel
industry, copper, aluminum, petrochemicals and other chemicals ($30
million). They take into account projections of consumption, domestic
production, stocks, the import pipeline and also other possible external
financing for the substantial import requirements of eligible industries.
Sectoral considerations underlying the proposed loan, and the import
*             requirements for commodities proposed for financing, are provided in Annex V.
56.      Public-Private Sector Balance;  The allocations also provide for a
balance between public and private sector beneficiaries. Most eligible
imported inputs are currently used by both public and private sector firms.
Goods produced with these inputs are sold to -firms in both sectors. Never-
theless, assurances will be obtained that equitable licensing as between
public and private sector firms will be maintained as in the past. Agree-
ment has been reached that not less than $25 million of the loan will be
allocated to private firms (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). This will not
distort normal patterns of imports.
57.      Licensing;  Turkey has a comprehensive system of import licensing,
administered by the Ministry of Commerce with advice from the Chambers of
Commerce and Industry (to which all firms belong), and substantive approval
of a large proportion of import application by other concerned ministries.
Distinctive features of the system are that positive lists ensure that only
essential items are imported, but imports are generally not licensed where
Turkish production can meet the demand. However, exporters may now purchase
their input needs at home or abroad regardless of the licensing system. The
stages of the import licensing process are relatively numerous, but well
understood in Turkey. Under normal conditions, the time required for
typical transactions is not excessive, except under the Quota List with its
semi-annual cycle. The extremely tight foreign exchange situation in recent
years led to effective import control being exercised by the Central Bank
and Ministry of Finance. In 1979, the system was liberalized to allow com-
mercial banks to use about 37.5 percent of their foreign exchange receipts
to cover approved imports; in January 1980, this was increased to 80 per-
cent. Exporters receive first priority in the use of these receipts.
58.      Loan Administration Arrangements;  The arrangements made for the
first Structural Adjustment Loan will be retained, since they remain
appropriate and are working satisfactorily. The Ministry of Finance and the
*              Central Bank will bear the main responsibility for administering the
proposed loan. Applications for import licenses will receive substantive
approval from the appropriate technical ministry, taking into account: (a)
the extent to which Turkish production cannot meet domestic demand, and (b)
the equitable allocation of import licenses amongst both public and private
firms taking into account installed capacity, recent performance, and export
potential. To ensure rapid disbursements, the Government has also agreed
that it will arrange for agencies to promptly approve import licenses, as
well as promptly allocate and transfer the needed foreign exchange (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03).



- 24 -
59.      The Central Bank's Consortium Section, created under the 1978
Program Loan, will continue to handle disbursements. The Ministry of
Finance will continue to monitor progress, identify problems and expedite.
To speed procurement, 40-day bridge financing has been arranged with two
foreign commercial banks to cover the period between payments and reimburse-
ment from the proposed loan. To simplify disbursement procedures, the mini-
mum amount of withdrawal applications of $25,000 set under the first loan
has been retained. The loan is expected to be disbursed within about six
months of effectiveness.
60.      Counterpart Funds;  Counterpart funds will be deposited in the
special account created for the 1978 Program Loan and being used again for
the first loan. As under those loans, the Government will use the
counterpart funds to help finance the local currency portion of capital
expenditures on development projects (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). It has
informally indicated to the Bank that it expects to allocate the funds to a
small number of its most important energy development projects, including
the Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project (Loans 1023 TU) and the Karakaya
Hydropower Project (Loan 1844 TU).
61.      Procurement and Disbursements:  Imports will be made directly by
actual users. Bulk imports costing $5 million or more will be procured on
the basis of ICB procedures consistent with Bank guidelines. All contracts
of lesser value will be awarded under the normal procurement procedures of
the public and private sector firms concerned. The procurement procedures
of public sector firms already provide for substantial international bidding
and are satisfactory. Certain commodities will be purchased through their
organized international markets, which is acceptable. Private firms have
adequate choice of international suppliers to ensure reasonable availability
and price.. About half of the loan is expected to be procured under ICB.
These procedures should permit rapid disbursements. The loan will be dis-
bursed against 100 percent of foreign expenditures.  Retroactive financing
will be permitted of up to 410 million worth of expenditures made after
October 1, 1980 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 2(ii)), since the first
loan is fully committed and the Government wishes to make new commitments
for eligible commodities for which it will have to make downpayments and
progress payments in the near future.
62.      Risks;  The principal risks attached to this loan are that politi-
cal developments in Turkey might impede the Government's determination or
efforts, to carry out its new economic policy objectives and the structural
and institutional changes in key areas initiated under the January 1980
program of structural adjustments. The commitment of the military regime
and new civilian Cabinet to continue implementing that program, and indeed
to enact those parts of it hitherto blocked by deadlock in Parliament,
offers assurance that Turkey will pursue the crucial changes discussed in
Parts I and II and maintain the momentum of structural adjustment. Even so,
the speed and extent of policy changes in the last few months are unlikely
to be duplicated in the disbursement period of the proposed loan. The
administrative arrangements in respect of import licensing, foreign exchange
allocations, transfers, documentation and disbursements made for the first



- 25 -
Structural Adjustment Loan are functioning satisfactorily, and will be
maintained. Procurement procedures are in line with Bank policy. Adequate
bridge financing has been arranged. With these provisions, the risks of
slow disbursements have been reduced considerably.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
63.      A large lending program for Turkey began following the introduction
of its 1970 stabilization program. To date, the Bank/IDA have lent $2,573
million, through 60 projects. Agriculture accounts for 23 percent of funds
lent, industry and DFCs for 37 percent, power for 13 percent and urban
development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as of September 30, 1980, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
64.      Since mid-1975 the implementation of private sector projects has
been satisfactory. Political uncertainty, limited coordination amongst
ministries and staffing problems resulted in uneven and delayed project
implementation in the public sector. Therefore, a system of joint project
reviews between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. This
resulted in distinct, but modest, improvements up to end 1977. The situa-
tion was again reviewed with the Government in March 1978, and further dis-
cussed with the then Prime Minister in April 1978. Subsequently, Turkey
established a new high-level coordination team. This team set up procedures
for monitoring and achieving realistic implementation and disbursement tar-
gets. As of April 1980, disbursements increased to 70 percent of appraisal
estimates against 51 percent in June 1975. The encouraging progress allows
cautious optimism that performance can be gradually improved further, pro-
vided it is not eroded by the new factors including shortages of resources.
65.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting the economic policies initiated
in January 1980, especially: (a) the pursuit of an export oriented develop-
ment strategy; and (b) domestic economic policies aimed at establishing
macro-economic balance, increasing domestic savings, restraining public
investment and reorienting it to reflect the priorities implicit in the
present situation--especially completion of ongoing projects, emphasis on
quick-yielding new investments, and balance of payments impact. The Bank
has discussed with the Government how its overall lending can best contri-
bute to the latter's medium-term objectives, without projects being handi-
capped by past policy and institutional obstacles. A series of proposed
structural adjustment loans is envisaged, at the Government's request, to
support its program of structural adjustments to be implemented in the
medium term, through specific detailed measures and policy actions in the
period that may be covered by each such loan. Agriculture, industry and
energy will be the key sectors for project lending. In agriculture, proj-
ects emphasize livestock, exports, and rural development; in industry
(including DFCs), the emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as
also the gradual strengthening of the SEEs. Energy projects underway are in



- 26 -
power generation based on domestic hydro and lignite resources; future proj-
ects will emphasize the oil/gas subsector. Projects for urban development
and public utilities supplement these efforts. We propose to maintain a
close macroeconomic and sector dialogue with Turkey. The economic and
sector work planned over the next several months includes special studies of
the public investment program and of industrialization and foreign trade
strategy, and completion of sector memoranda on agriculture and industry.
In addition, the progress made in fostering structural adjustment will be
monitored in the context of each future structural adjustment loan.
66.      Loans for the Bati Raman enhanced oil recovery and petroleum
exploration projects are expected to be considered by the Executive
Directors in November 1980. Other projects likely to be presented this
fiscal year include a second fruits and vegetables-pr6ject, urban employment
generation in selected cities, industrial finance and fertilizer industry
rehabilitation, besides a second structural adjustment loan. Projects being
processed for later consideration include; rural development, seed produc-
tion, sewerage development: in Istanbul, paper or cement modernlization and
promotion of export oriented industries.
67.      The Bank Group's share of Turkey's total external debt (including
short-term obligations) was 8.0 percent in 1979, and is expected to grow to
10.0 percent by 1981 and 12.5 percent by 1985. Its share of service pay-
ments is projected to fall. slightly from 8.8 percent in 1979 to 6.4 percent
in 1981, thereafter increasing to 7.6 percent by 1985.
68.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass,
aluminum, iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and
cylinder liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of
September 30, 1980, gross IFC commitments totalled $212 million, of which
$94 million were still held by IFC. New investment opportunities are being
pursued.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article II, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Features of special interest are described in paras.
28, 31, 33, 34, 35, 42, 44, 56, 60 and 61 and listed in Annex III of this
report.
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of Bank.



- 27 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 28-                                              Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WJEIGHTED AVIRAGES
LAND AREA  t'HOtSArlD SQ. Elt.)                                                        -  HOS. RECENT ESTIMATE--
TuTAL            780.6                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             1;!DtSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTIRAL     553.6               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIIATE lb               EUROPE                COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  290.0       520.0    1200.0                   2381.1                    S104.2
ENERGY CONSS?TTION PER CAP-TA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQLIVALENT)      245.0     -479.0       798.0                 1641.4                     7021.1
POPLiLATION AND VITAL STAISTICS
POPULATIUO, MID-YEAR (E_:LIOSS)      27.5        35.3       43.1
UkBAN POPULATIOi (PERCE'.T OF TOTAL) 29.7        38.4       45.6                    53.9                      76.0
POPULATlON PROJECTIONS
POPULAT1ON II, YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       65.0
STATIONARY FOPULATION (!ILLIONS)                         10D.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION 15 REACHEE                  2075
POPULATION DENS lTY
PER SQ. Yt.                        35.0        45.0      55.0                     77.2                     142.8
PER SQ. Sh1. AGRICULTURAL LAND     51.0        64.0       78.0                   129.5                     523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCEh'T)
0-14 YES.                          41.3        41.7       39.1                    30.6                      23.5
15-64 YRS.                          55.2        54.0      56.4                    61.1                      65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.3         4.3        4.5                     8.2                      11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RAT£ (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8         2.5        2.5                     1.6                       0.7
URA';                               5.I.c       3.1        4.6                    3.3                        1.3
CRUDE EIRTE RATE (PIF THOUSAND)      44.0        38.0       32.0                    22.8                      13.8
CRLDE DEAIE RATE (PEP ThOUSAND)      17.0        12.0       10.0                     8.9                       9.1
GROSS iEFRODUCTION RAtE               2.9         2.6        2.1                     1.5                       0.9
FANIlLY PLANNlliG
ACCEPTORS, AINhIJAL (THOUSAPI:S)     ..        65.6       66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MAiRIED VOgEN)   5.3          8.2       38.0
FOOD      lit'ICRITION
INDEX GF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-10)           96.0       100.0      110.0                  113.1                      110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RJE QUIR3t E TS)                110.0       110.0      115.0                  125.3                      131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PEF DAY)           81.0        80.0       82.0                   91.0                       9S.0
OF WHlCk ANI!iAL A'D PULSE       24.0        26.0       24.0                    39.6                      62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MOR-ALITY RATE      24.0        16.0       10.0                    4.3                        0.8
HEALTh
LIFl tXPECTAh'CY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0        57.0       61.0                    67.8                      73.5
IhFANT PORTALITY  ATOE (PER
THOLSAND)                           187.0/c     153.0/d   118.0                     55.9                      13.2
ACCESS TO WAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPL'LATION)
TOTAL                                ..        52.0       75.0
URBAN                                          51 0       70.0
RURAL                                ..        53.0       80.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULLATION)
IOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..       19.5
B                                        RURAL                                 ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           3000.0/e    2250.0    1772.0                  1030.1                      624.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      1880.0    1403.0                   929.4                      218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             590.0/.     490.0     506.0                   289.7                      121.2
URBAN                             190.0/.     200.0
RL'RAL                               ..      5890.0.
ADbISSI20S PEk HOSPITAL RED            ..        20.0       20.0                    17.0                      17.0
HOt'SING
AVENACE S1IE OF HOUSEOLD
TOIAL                               5.7         5.9
URAN                                 ..          ..         .
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVlEAGE NURBER OF PERHSOSS PER ROOb
IOTAL                                ..         2.2
UtRAi                               2.0         1.9
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
vW DWELLIRCS)
10IAL                              29.0        40.0       57.0
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                               2.0        18.0



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
- 29 -
TAILE JA
TUIE! - Soc:A.L INDICATORS DASA SPEr
TULXY                              REF£.1CE GROLPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
-  NOS7 I.ECEN- ESTIMATE)''
IOST IECDST           ffSDDL£ INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTMATE /b               EUROPE                 COL'NTRIES
EDLCATIOK
ADJUSTED O ROLLHEZ2 IATIOS
lDUaY:       TOTAL                 75.0       109.0,     98.0                   105.9                     100.1
MIAU£                90.0        124.0     106.0                   109.3                     102.2
FEMALE              3S.0          94.0      90.0                   103.0                     102.3
SECONDARXY:  TOTAL                14.0         28.0      43.0                    64.0                      87.1
MALE                 20.0         39.0      59.0                    71.1                      S4.4
FEMALE                8.0         16.0      27.0                    56.9                      84.3
VOCATIOSAL E.i.o... (: or SECONDARY)  1I.0       14.0      15.0                    2S.8                      19.0
P1PIL-TEAC6U RATIO
PR D±RY                           46.0         38.0      34.0                    29.4                      21.3
SECONDART                          19.0        25.0      27.0               =      .                       16.4
ADOUL L1.ERACY RATE (PERCENT)        36.0        55.5/f    60.0                      ..                      98.9
CONSD*1ION
PASSENGEi CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULA I ON                        2.0          4.0      11.5                    84.6                     319.9
8L.A10 LECLIVLPS PR TEOUSAND
POPULATIION                        49.0        89.0     103.0                   192.2                     932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER ;EOUSAND
POPLATION                            ..         1.8      43.0                   118.5                     354.8
IIEWSPAPER ("DAILt *ENRAL
INTEREST") C:RC-.'lION PER
TSOUSAND POPU-LAT.IO                 51.0          ..        ..                    93.0                     327.4
CI22LA ANNULA  ATE-NDANCE PFR CAPI'A  1.1         6.7         ..                    5.7                       3.3
' UOR FORCE
TOTAL LA?OR FORCE l EOUSANDS)    13782.1      15829.6   18858.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.2         37.2      36.0                    30.4                      36.1
AGRCUL.TURE (PERCENT)             7J.5         67.7      60.0                    37.0                       7.6
IDUSTRY (PERCESN)                  10.5        12.1      14.0                    29.3                      38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               50.1         44.3      42.8                    *0.9                      44.6
I ALE                                58.7        54.9      53.2                    55.9                      58.1
.DiSLE                              *1.2         33.4      32.1                    26.2                      31.7
ECONOkUC DEPENDENCY LATIO               0.9         1.0       1.0                     1.0                       0.8
1NC0M DISTRISrTION
PERCENT IQ Fi:VATE INCOME
RECEIVED SY
RIXEEST 5 PERCENT OF SODSENOLDS   33.lS        32.8/h
-IGCEET 20 PERCENT OF HOUSECLDS  6i.04&        60.6 ./h
0MEST ,0 PERCENT OF EOUSESOLDS    4.2a          2.9/h
LOEST 40 PERCENT OF EOUS£EOLDS   10.6j          9.4/h       ..
POVERTY TA-.ARC GROLPS
ES;thIED ABSQLLZE POVERTY INCGHE
LEYEL (LISS PER CAP:1T)
IJU13A                                           .      342.0...
IUAL AL                                          ..     270.0
ESTMED RELATIVE POVERY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
flA                                  ..          ..        ..-.
URAL                                ..           ..     220.0                   385.8
ESTINATO POPMATION BE' ASSOLUTE
POVERTY INC1C01 LEVEL (PERCENT)
3w                                   ..          ..        .                        ..
RDUAL                               ..           ..        .                        ..
..olt avaS7able
N ot app;Scabke.
/a       3goup everaes for eacb Indicator are populat±on-weghted aritbmetic  means.  Cover.8, of countrlet
_m0   htb Ludic*t:es 4epenDds aO svaLIebLLlt! of date and to not unLfcun.
b   Unless ocherwuse noted, data ftr 1960 refer to sor  Year betveen 1959 and 1961. for 1970, beten" 1969
and 1971; and lor Mo- Rtecent isinace. b-vwen 1974 and 1978.
,    1955-S0; L 1967; I/ 1962; Mf Six years and over; LI 1963, /h 1968.
4prl, 1980



-30 -                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
5l!gfttdvt of 9Oct67 fulfxciToRs
1otor:  AltIoh hO      at t.dor   ro4hrtopsoal    igtte  ctothtettcsd  os!.   tsoudasoh  otdca  ta   aycttottr
titrlsa. asefl to oaceiboarteosof aagtcodc.  odicat  treco, act  horattrtrePcrtel', abord dfl- rocer hatsoc     IIIscriaa
VWe rsesa.      gor   r  1-11 tinaesccttry. group o   the olisi  costy  o  (1..            outot  roo diff ..     atotht....ba..no..tanth.c.nry rI
ef 'ho soject coutry (asooo for  llpttol Soriur Oil  opuritra   roup ithra 'Middl I.toto. orth. Afria cod tidlo dart -t at-os .bo     ..o.r o  streogo
don. nut .i ton   -    ...c...tar toot bettn..n.. In reltntn.. t crao  o   e   oettcncnhc.                   hosuoostsonno!ootsrnctala
ti sc toitaer a  a tns   t,e  iactor  andPl. ruoilacP, eop...8 9             '                       l-.d dl                             --.
hota  - loca  suraceare    I.pligln   r. o   se ett.  ....ou.rco .' andco   000 ctleeorbd
Oaltftrs - tncuat  ofI4io_        crloaoo enrrl  or fenarotly                          Pecr     _.a .-- t -r u tiot Orria -- houatctoddi  cse   fpatot
tc- oroAl p...    oe..I   rk thot  .ctoh yr Wod              V-o   o  i  fio  97  aa       asic  ct ta tic  .r.u.c . ooe.      ra..alcuhe. ndas 1ssr
L.t  f                                                                              _~~~~~~~~~~~~PolnooerhnotlOd-toa,   ubr,r rrl-Pplco    ctl
CI? Pt Cetic  7191- LWper tpir.eaclotacat orrec  sat-iys. exnt.  oCI-           uru.at  taidt;e   y  bc oeno    ubo   fhsptlbo
Ptatd  y  ot.coveoio   etain ac4 kbob.  .doth  Ise (tIII9 hosts:; 1967 d,.           nierinubcttroun ......                al end-  snollodhsia                o
i0l. and 1909 dana.                                             habilicesiec tatter.   hoocl   reochihsenpcasei   tfe
Pet COITA 4USI)  M  -011-  -I-t-p  t aec  naphphacn   tcalitroan   roide1prcopolycutoia
asihablititd  reg  oft-dtu f-atlltis.    Frsaicclpree    ra   o
1:~    COIfffA                                                                   tal  lolus hld  prirnop-  Errtoal.ah enoala    opist.td  os
".   .. :L                                                        _:t_~~~~~~~~~~~~~oeicl  ioa   oroa4  pcsasdar.s:ndnsrisnscs
Urhac ?oncisnocv Iperocor of yaca!) - totic of tobac tc... rota!-di1                                         F- I  populaclo fl
stodnt dooin;191.  91     91   dar.1uoreo 5961.170 1IRomoll(eros  .b- Ifhodi. - cci orI                                                            .  c  rrl
caci  oplaco  h  as  ntsaao   chconocaic  ad  orcla:raes                mor   hootd  e   tnottlyupe
-ocaotonp         9an0er  fa9 ocfiyocsco oeo  cyoo ln97aear-                         unr-a ctter a! Hatr   o   ononl   os.  n   oo       noc   o'
in~  ifc  oraoaot  at  nto  coceastotec  oocn    o  ca- Aoa  ohte            be, of  .I pcao  pe  rt.                          h. llcco,ot   uclccoiotc --ot
bea.et  saslfrapooo~eaoioige  7.   er.    ep0-                                  deltt.  epoial.Dclltacoc   o-onoot   noCoe   e
tha hiril roe is squal t  ttr tastl rts, aaf-ale  the ado st,...oe rr
ni-h  c       Jat .  lbtatoattlatc   actr-onsdIos cIt                               aaadfo otcnt
is  ht  tha  biii.andoolcioonol fsoniliuyd h- "~.. ntsi   elct                       sr   o  ajso   c  dtfcrcP.lngoo o- pr -sr cotIior;a
shea lYt coonotalto                                                                   rpdr   ncl-nyl  aeot soe-Ctaa   saue   ood
sotol aces.                                                      teotllr 01 II ta 17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,Ib   iear oiffa er; norntep PIcno  coresdL   soc
Per s. ho.tocicoctol lan   - Stp Tce   Yeo-v  ftari- nc      la.in telote .P                                                                   9
hcc     ..  ..ly.. lctInl  vtlmn tor-oroc ttaoa.., C-ltaIt'cu   cctctocten
Fcvuantt or icuonoa lrriai P- Chld-  kl-i-t.Ip (20  h-oic-ote If                   uld   aacoo   nuacl  'rotrpto    cyc                      .oranioee-,
latico;  917. 197. act 19   Chdata.  -                                          PoD-2-sa-e-ra.t    ,raorakcv  seccern-  ona1sntone  orilo   i
frutcoaoc~  an   teo,.r     acl-  toe   ro-a  0c.00tit   ld            rosatod-r.s'ual3:tochrtocret-ooh,                              atoC
otto pooulertcta for 1931-n;. 1967-70. ant 1977-79.         coroesoondt',k [cycle. ~         .  .........                    :-.    d I
Po,uato'oal barcare,     10'- 1ono  gon  ocao   ta   Oc5lneurca0ctni- OOt   duthnl   c,a   o  ,te
la -ccaIonIQIon. lhA--1Ifta.... l-it.                                                 Aap-t-   oItgo-ofcottl-oul- nn-ittu
trae bon  loe (ot ats-nd  - u.u  ietrh    arsoeo   icdua                                                                          nae   itm    o   ao
ptptlscooo:  luel, 1971. sat 1971 utna.                     colsccnoPTn .. tg.  ! I..   .. 1                 ~           .... .. 
lid   odlce-a   hoci'-uva   och   e   bua.d0   0-eo                                      iatne   ec  a'  nutc  tc5ta-                   Pascrtr  tnos   ot
pouato.   96.9.  a   9O   aa                                                      OOtsttoo   to   tunpret;oolaeaeuaca,hare   o
looe eoocuonot  oosuoesgstuier  f ducnaratoooanli  osott         cm     luartretuoee
ba  oool   epeattterrou   i  s ..epshote preotae-pct,t oh.d.nt.r.a.r'.nued  cuotol-Al  yc   f  conosttot
Puib  Pcttt'-bct cvo.. sP.I I.uf  I, .. c Iuoos  - tI co   ole   fscpor .edetce,uocvc.odoInstlc rgartoIa   ai   e
P07 S  _lCt-7l                                                                             Otcncrsn    nvso   to   sgr ct  of...... sets oa.
ANDo ofy0  cconc   e                                         t  r   c                   ennvoCo    Ibb. nc   soa ;tra..acn        ott,eaeaecrua
priaoitni  ll                Cs-la  U199-Tifll    lIco.  I              t   eo             oe   fo2 V.,ota  tacoct-IIoeopar--dfcecaS                   eocctta 
ise mciaayta:.Poutco  clce   ed  c   ee   n                                       Uaio    eotdpIotlr  oreodogeora   ot.I  i   aeiae
lance.  lotoodtnro     -1veo -p.u.ar   tooo  5.. eurr_a     atid'a'tIi                                                              ..a. :las   ounnsssO
iso nrita  uovlvof tacuat rroct.: otrenoosaeno) - Copoco  tote4  I.   -                               I
pot dn.  hallabe sopltr  oocrceo   cactipoooanco. ucrtoaae I.         ate  lobt  Ov-o  fcbvo~ssote  - tE-onoco1lt a-teo  IIreot. tn-udioa
nrvc.tdahss  tn moo                ....e  Iopitec.u cdi. o19feet.970ed
qesttssasItlofvttoatcaoiAs  oo cie.ur  cc 97arhic  1b: 171an
P.,ecof  ed;lulf         1 P  .97, I  t          p-W ac,    1,,d  o  eretag                                      f ntallohnft'.  16,190ee   9hoa
msupbocfoo  p. r tar,  lo- t        It    f fod.  JItIcoeda   roe    c
oucoatc. sr-, and ga       P..pe.coccage  t I.ctal labor fr'e  1960.
Irdea.   lnrta Iteas   I;goan-  of tetl .oo.t  art 1p-n  tf                           auort,tauc  so   onueda  wu t ale. avf laelIIIo  foroat
tetltfood  araso  196193  170 al-  -102 II..db  %          ~ h data.          1092. ~ 17.dat  975 dat.-   -hese are IL.". patios.u-sc  pf1cs
St..,lne  1-If Y-tc-..    Isile  ro  tvpu.uad -. ..no. op ch   ercotan   t 
crie  dIc  dorload 0l re 1lfe cabIca. 1961. 1970 ant 197.7 dat.l.tiTIl-Tf
"eIooe   fPrvt  0:5  bcri  ts   o  kindl - Roo..aI-  by riahe.t
'.b.' -f  ..'. -                   oroas.ocnca  I llfcc.0idta  IP..c.... aed pourec t  pcresot
a    rn,ful190at197  1 t deco.7
tofro nortabet ate or naueandi - IutaI desotoottdeoopar POcERTe TARGEl Ctt.Pn
P-p- lt-!, -.. , I'dI11~~~ tt I.....ocolfte Ipo .cr                            . tor  le,te  ce ..1cc. toto... leve.  Isntn-    ast
PaestrncarIo   rot-b-rtot   pics   t  Iaet....ac... Ie;
ct'nacsd helatror Ppaeor, corvee lenot Iron orohi, taor' -ranadrua
osoidh.-o   bstcsd            ...c.i..cn- ooana,roceo  iathoor- .l  lrtcrlca             eona   euec  aronrh.io   nlt   a auIo                                 oa
rtasosahlsauteaetoulo  inpI' 0100 ole houaootce or cetbcca of eve oooaeholt  facet city ad'tsteer~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. fur ntrtro  roal of I itieg  or urcot arcee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-- 
do no   ave coapoeda d caropoo tutat  parc  f ohsdan orfettnug thescln..ad fotlotuo  boonAistite Potet' icont Leal o.o.. t...... o
fenilo  storar ecede.                                   ant eooal - isoeret or rtpuitctoa  tarhenand  uto I9atae   loat   ar



- 31 -
TURKEY - 1,O90C DS119VLOPMENT DATA BHILET
Fhas 4 of a
Sh-r of
A c n u a 1  Peooi.ional ~~~~~~~  -     P 08 .1 0 C T I 2                      Croo~~G'-th Rate.         GDPB
1970     1973       1975      1977       1978       1 79                 19825                           199    0  70-75      791-8      85-90        7FC
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (TL BLlion. 1978 Polo..)
1   GCroo  dosestlt prodoct                      720.3    876.1    1034.2    1234.5    1272.7   1269.2    1288.2    1386.6    1449.0    1582.3    1971.9               7.4        3.8        4.5     100.0
2.  G2m from term, of trod.                       .6.0       3.8      .0.2      -10.1        3.0        -38.8  .15.9      .20.3     -21.7      .24.0      .41.7          -         -                   0.0
3.  Cro. domeotlo Incoe                          714.3    879.9    1034.0    1224.4    1272.7   1249.2    1272.3    1366.3    1427.3    1358.3    1930.1               7.5        3.8        4.4     100.0
4.  Eponto IC o NFS)                              42.7      66.3       50.8      62.0       7A.0      71.2      77.0       92.1     100.4      119.2      183.5         7,1       8.9        8.9        5.8
5.  Imports (G o NFS)                             60.0      93.9      140.4     167.4      110.0    112.0      117.3      127.6     132.2      141.2      172.3       809         3.9       4.1        9.2
6   Invto.nt                                    130.0    158.1      245.0      273.2      248.4    263.7      263.7     280.2      294.8     326.2      420.3         8.4        3.3        5.2      19.0
7,  Co.o.mption                                  590.4    723.7      846.5    1036.8    1075.9  1053.5    1064.9    1142.0    1186.1    1278.1    1540.4               7.8        3.3       3.8       84.5
8. Dom stlo ...in9.                              129.9    152.4       187.7     197.7      196.8    212.8      207.5     274.4      241.2      260.2     389.8         5.3        4.7        6.8      15.5
9   Natlon-l aing.                               143.3    191.3      214.2      213.0      2L2.7    236.0      216.2     237.5      260.8      304.0     423.6         5.1        4.3       6.9       16.7
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                                                                            Shac. oftotal Octput (Per.ent)
1.  A .rloultor.                                  29.6      27.9      29.5       28.1       27.0      23.4       26.7      26.2       25.9       09.0      24.2
0.  Induotry                                      27.2      26.5      26.1       26.1       27.7      30.0       27.4       27.8      28.2       25.4      31.0
3.  Uther                                         43.2      45.6      44.4       45.8       45.4      46.6      45.9       46.0       45.9       45.6      44.8
C. PRICES (1978 . 100)
1.  Coport prlco.                                 43.7      63.8       84.0      95.6      100.0     105.6      119.8     14.0       156.6      185.5     234.7
2.  Imprt prlo..                                  47.7      61.8       84.2      96.1      103.0     125.6      151.1    15.8        20W0.0    232.4      329.5
3.  Tern, of trod.                                91.6    103.2       99.7       99.6      100.0      84.1       79.3      77.9       78.4       79.8      77.2
4.  CDP d fLto- y/                                20.2      33.7       50.2      73.4      100.0     460.0      320.0     9220.0    1180    2025.0    5039.0
5.  Avorago sothtn-e rote (31.00   TLI            11.0      14.2       14.4      18.0       24.3      36.4
L. PUBLIC FINANCE                                                  Portent of GDP
1.  Central 0ov0cnm  nt ro.enos                   22.6      20.9      23.1       24.2      24.2       22.8
0   Crotrol goerne  .t .opsoditor-                24.9      22.0      23.7       27.9       28.5      25.9
3.  Poblio sector deficit 3t                        -        2.1       6.1        9.0        3.7       6.2
1970.78                                                                              1970      1975     1977      1978
e. SELECTED INDICATORS                                                              F.  LPR FORCE
0CO0                                               3.0                               Cloiliso labor force (ellitonI                   13.6     13.8      16.0      16.4
Imporr elceticity                                  2.4  /                            UCemploy ent and -ndersmploy.-nt CX)             11.0     12.3      13.1      13.5
A-v sr   do-catit -aLo  ra.                       16.9                               ciila  erploynrot (nNlllcn)                   13.1     14.7      14.7      14.8
gr-in-l dore.tic sating rte                       13.6                                 of chich (57
Inn-et st/CDP                                     20.2
Lrports/CDP                                       11.4                               Agnic.ltur-                                      67.1     64.5      61.9     61.3
Ind-otoy                                        13.3      14.9     16.3      16.6
Othen                                           19.6      20.6     21.8      22.2
t otealo moy oct add op bsocs.  of nrandi.  encore.
7t PreJoctd rots  of inflotten are highly apeculativ  rcd saject to Change.
3t Boerelovg reqoiroricce of c.ntr-l peersst, Ston  X.one. KLaterprleo., cnd other p6bli  outharitie..
4/ For 1970-77 period.
ONtoter 1980
082L1



o  sOt. _                 3 "            -u 3g i12 o  0  0    on    D3    3 _3           
lI c z n _ = | OO    00                        -  0    005 pg∞e ;r   
-va                                       *l_  -  3  3  O3    3o  3    3  ´f 
. 03                                                10  salt      oss           00e;I   
_ ~ ~       ~     ~      ~     . a0   ,                              I    ~
b~ ~~ ~~1 _o                                             I ___  0I  30. A_       1  E b0        0   0> 
¢ . > W ∞   b ^^ ~~~~~ ^  >    M-  -  Wt0    &  S  ;t..    rzr ,>     3  o 5_      .,.   -_-
00             to,-          0 000              01 .' .n        . -t -             , 0_ N
sg                              no   o,8oO            £ _ Wß    .   r  n-  10   0..10 5On S0          
g    0 {                                                                          23N
S                                                 . _  N                          I
SI --                                      -         -                   N        0001        -     3S N
-~~~~ ~~~ -a  t.cr-n--    n-n       3     F     1001      0.   F OWI
o1 S&. f                                             ;c _aw  .N.  $Nr               Nto
V                                                                                                   ci<   WBEV OSI S
o E                                                    I     i -              I- o        _8o    r10   
|!~~~~~~01 G



-.33 
TURzy - EXTlr  DEBT AND CREDITWOETiLRESS                             ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
Actual                                     Provisional
1970       1973        1975        1976        1977       1978             1979
A. OUTSTANINIMG DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.   Public Medium and Long Term (M and LT)(Disbursed)  1/            1854       2869        3176        3519        4326       6100            10452
2.   Private M and LT (disbursed)  1/                                   42         115         160        253         479        557               650
3.   Short Term  2/                                                     ..        279        1398        3441        6600       7469             4823
4.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                 1896        3263       4734        7313       11405      14126             15925
5.   Undisbursed Public M and LT  1/                                   840       1101        1641        2393        2804       3500             3775
B.  DEBT SERVICE (Million US Dollars)
1.   Interest on all Debt (net of relief)  3/                         -47         -59        -150        -300        -570       -710             -930
2.   Amortization of M and LT Debt (net of relief)                   -146         -72        -117        -119        -214       -380             -365
3.   Total Debt Service Payments                                     -193        -131        -267        -419        -784      -1090            -1295
C. DEBT BURDEN
1.   Debt Service Ratio  4/                                           18.8         4.4        7.7        11.2        22.2       26.7             26.2
2.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP  5/                         15.0        15.7        13.1       17.9        23.9       28.3             26.5
D.  EXPOSURE
1.   Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                  7.2          7.8        9.1         7.6         6.1        6.0              8.0
2.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                       3.2        14.9        12.2        10.8         8.3        7.7              8.8
E.  COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OL'TSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT                                                                       1979-/
(Million US Dollars)                                                                          (Amount)  (As ' of Total)
1.  Medium & Long-Term Debt                                                                                       11102          69.7
a.     Public Medium and Long-Term                                                                           10452           65.6
(i)  Bank Group                                                                                        1080           6.8
(ii)  Other Multilateral                                                                                 639           4.0
(iii)  Governments                                                                                       4692          29.5
(iv)  Suppliers                                                                                          352           2.2
(v)  Financial Institutions                                                                            3654          22.9
(vi)  Bonds                                                                                               35           0.2
b.     Private Medium and Long-Term (Total)                                                                     650           4.1
2.  Short Term                                                                                                     4823          30.3
(M)  Convertible Turkish Lira Deposits                                                                  642           4.0
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Comercial and Oil Arrears                                                      1516           9.5
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                                                                 634           4.0
(iv)  Bankers Credits, Reimbursement Credits,Overdrafts                                                  244           1.5
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                                                      344           2.2
(vi)  IMF                                                                                                623           3.9
(vii)  Oil Credits                                                                                        408           2.6
(viii)  Other                                                                                              412           2.6
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                                                              15925         100.0
-1/  Bank DRS data.
2/ based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.
3/ Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data, except for 1979.
4/  Total debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods end non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
5/ At market prices.
6/ Bank DRS data, Turkish Central Bank and Treasury estilates.
October 1980
E24ENA CPIIA



ANNEX II
34 -                                 Page 1 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT
(As of September 30, 1980)
Loan and
Credit                                                                       (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year   Borrower                   Purpose                          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty-two loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                        600.5   177.8
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey        Education                          13.5               2.6
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey         Istanbul Water Supply             37.0               9.3
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey        Ceyhan Aslantas                    44.0              18.9
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey        Istanbul Power Distribution    14.0                   0.1
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway  Railway Project                      46.7                1.7
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey        Antalya Forestry                  40.0                0.3
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                   Elbistan Power                    148.0              53.3
1024-TU   1974   DYB                       Industry                          40.0                0.7
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey        Rural Development                  75.0              44.5
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)          Agriculture Credit                54.3              31.3
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                          70.0              11.2
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Livestock III                      21.5              12.0
1194-TU   1976   TEK                       Power Transmission II             56.0               12.8
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey        Tourism                            26.0              23.1
1379-TU   1977   DYB                       Industry                          70.0               35.8
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                      Industry                          74.0               15.7
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Northern Forestry                 86.0               67.7
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Livestock IV                      24.0               22.6
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey        Erdemir Steel Stage II            95.0               89.8
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ports Rehabilitation              75.0               75.0
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Grain Storage                     85.0               85.0
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                      Industry                          60.0               59.3
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                      Private Sector Textiles           65.0               64.9
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                      Private Sector Textiles           15.0               15.0
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey        Ankara Air Pollution Control    6.0                   5.8
1818-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Structural Adjustment            200.0               90.6
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Karakaya Hydropower              120.0              120.0
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Sumerbank Cotton Textiles /a   83.0                  83.0
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey        Livestock V /a                    51.0               51.0
Total                                                    2395.5   177.8   1103.0
of which has been repaid                                206.0     6.3
Total now outstanding                                    2189.5   171.5
Amount sold                        3.6
of which has been repaid        3.6                    - 0 -   - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                        2189.5   171.5
Total undisbursed                                        1103.0      0     1103.0
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor       Type of Business                    Loan   Equity   Total
1964     TSKB           DFC                                   -    0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn                          0.90   0.47       1.37
1967     TSKB II        DFC                                   -    0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III       DFC                                   -    0.41      0.41
1969     SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn                          1.50   0.43       1.93
1970     Viking I       Pulp and Paper                      2.50   0.62      3.12
1970     ACS            Glass                              10.00   1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS          Aluminum                            7.00   1.37       8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                            0.75      -      0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                          -    0.05      0.05
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                             -    0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV        DFC                                   -    0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V         DFC                                10.00      -     10.00
1973     Akdeniz        Tourism                             0.33   0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan        Steel Pipes                         3.60   0.44      4.04
1974     AKSA           Textiles                           10.00      -     10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                              1.30      -       1.30
1975     Sasa           Nylon Yarn                         15.00      -     15.00
1975     Aslan          Cement                             10.60      -     10.60
1975     DOKTAS         Steel                               7.50   1.37      8.87
1975     TSKB           DFC                                25.00   1.22    26.22
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                             1.58      -      1.58
1976     TSKB           DFC                                25.00      -     25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                                12.00   2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan        Steel Pipes                           -    0.06      0.06
1978     DOKTAS         Steel                                 -    0.09      0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                    2.15      -      2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories         8.62   0.78      9.40
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                   -    1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                                31.51   4.00    35.51
1980     TSKB          DFC                                    -    1.09       1.09
1980     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories           -    0.50      0.50
1980     MENSA         Textile and Fibers                   4.00      -      4.00
Total Gross Commitments                         190.84  20.96   211.80
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                     113.88   3.49   117.37
Total Commitments now held by IFC                76.96  17.47    94.43
Total Undisbursed                                 4.73   3.54       8.27



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project;  US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971.  Effec-
tive Date:  September 29, 1971.  Closing Date;  March 31, 1981.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. Implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily, with equipment procurement progressing smoothly.
Completion of some training institutions, including the Management Training
Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes. However 90 percent are now
complete or almost complete, and remedial actions are being taken by Govern-
ment to accelerate completion of the remaining schools. The Government is
also considering alternative steps to formally establish the Management Train-
ing Institute without need for parliamentary action. Training of teachers for
technician schools, adult training centers and practical trade schools has
made considerable progress. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for voca-
tional and technical education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project; US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system required, to enable full utilization to be made of
the new water sources are under implementation. Tariff increases have been
implemented recently, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and
financial systems is under consideration.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date; March 20,
1974. Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also,been completed.
Progress in 1979 was disappointing because of the difficulties that the
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
contractors encountered in obtaining sufficient fuel, construction steel and
cement; the supply situation has eased recently. The construction of the
irrigation system is progressing, with the system now ready to transport
irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the target. On-farm works
are progressing slowly, with about 40 percent of the land leveling, 25 percent
of the surface drainage, and 35 percent of the feeder roads completed. Tile
drainage is being delayed until the main drains are located. Staffing of the
extension service is satisfactory except as regards consultants; the Govern-
ment is taking steps to hire the latter.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date; September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
October 31, 1980.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow
procurement action and inefficient management; however, this is now almost
completed. Both local and foreign costs have increased substantially over
appraisal estimates. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of
the proposed reorganization of the company's electricity, transport and gas
services have been completed. IETT's tariffs have been raised substantially
in the recent past, and additional increases as a result of the Government's
January 1980 economic package should help cover the increased project costs
and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, an locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Over 90 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement action has been completed for use of the remaining
loan funds. Despite several tariff increases since the loan was made, the
Railways have continue to fall short of the financial targets in the revised
Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is hoped that
further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging 70 to 170
percent, which became effective in January 1980, will improve the Railways'
financial situation. While the dieselization program is making satisfactory
progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such as appro-
priate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway with the
installation of equipment proceeding process satisfactorily, and the project
is expected to be completed by end-1981, two and a half years behind the
revised schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have
occurred, but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have
produced some improvement. Arrangements have been made to complete the
foreign exchange financing plan, and procurement for the industrial part of
the project is well advanced. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz
establishment are also now being made. Price increases of 127-345 percent in
January 1980 should enable the company to meet part of the local currency
requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979. However,
continuing and serious shortage of local funds has affected project progress,
which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies. The Govern-
ment's expected timely provision of adequate local funds for this high
priority project from the Structural Adjustment Loan Counterpart Funds is
likely to help resume momentum in future. The colenders and the Government
met in October 1980 to discuss a detailed program of action to overcome
remaining implementation problems; this program is expected to be finalized
and implemented before the next construction season.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey); US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory and
disbursements are nearly complete.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development;  US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Corum dam has been
completed and the works to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds have been
completed. Kumbaba pumping station is ready. Diversion tunnels for Alaca and
Guldercek dams are more than 90 percent completed. Designs for the irrigation
systems of the Guldercek and Alaca areas have been completed and bids have
been initiated. The project extension service and credit components are
operating successfully. The Government is taking steps to replace two of the
three extension consultants who resigned for personal reasons. Further con-
struction of village centers is being delayed until agreement is reached on
satisfactory plan for using and maintaining existing centers and plans for
additional centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April, 21, 1978. Closing Date; December 31L
1980.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Improvements are expected to continue in over-
all project implementation and the rate of disbursement.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date; May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable Export
project are now operating a regularly schedule service between ports in Turkey
and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries and sub-loans has been
delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB)
has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised credit
program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily. After
considerable delay, consultants have begun the study of TCZB's structure and
procedures.  At the Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the
Project, and US$7.7 million of the original Loan amount of $63 million
allocated for this purpose, were cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided
for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for training was cancelled on
December 22, 1977, following approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint; US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project had faced delays in civil works and procurement caused by
insufficient local funds. Recent price increases of 130-345 percent have
helped to correct this situation and the project is expected to start pro-
duction in early 1981, 2 years behind the appraisal schedule. Erection of
machinery and equipment begun in early 1979 is almost complete and trial runs
of the saw mill component have already begun.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III; US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation
improved but has recently deteriorated due to resource constraints affecting
field staff travel. This has adversely affected the preparation of farm
development plans. Though project area offices have been established, they
are not fully staffed. Government is reviewing possible measures to correct
the situation. A higher than expected proportion of sub-loans has been made
to small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date; March 1, 1978. Closing Date; December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work,
although the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than
expected due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are being
taken, and the project is still expected to be completed without major delays.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey); US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date; March 31,
1981.
The loan has been fully committed. DYB still has severe staff
constraints, which it has in part overcome by recruitment of additional junior
staff. It hopes improved contract terms will enable it to fill more senior
positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date; August 29, 1977. Closing
Date; June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and 93 percent of the loan has been
committed. TSKB has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of
its resources to projects in less developed regions and export-oriented



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
industries. It has so far been unable to raise resources in international
capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the
interest of several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit
renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date; October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Industrial wood production for 1979 was close to forecasts but there
were significant shortfalls in some other targets, principally as a result of
Government budget cuts. Continuing local resource constraints have adversely
affected all targets during 1980, causing delays in preparation of forest
management plans over about 22 percent of the project area and timely payment
by SEEs' for timber delivery.. Foreign procurement is effectively up to date
but local state enterprises have been unable to supply much of the locally
produced equipment (principally vehicles to replace existing stocks).
Consideration is being given to procuring internationally.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV; US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program for farm development has not yet been
initiated, mainly because of difficulties being encountered in recruiting
veterinarians and agronomists to serve in eastern Turkey and by resource
constraints adversely affecting field staff travel. Government is reviewing
measures to overcome them. The milk industry study has been satisfactorily
completed. International recruitment of technical specialists, considerably
delayed, is underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel; US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are completed. Following technical
review by the company's consultants, the fourth blast stove and the third down
coiler have been deferred until a later date. Product selling prices have
been substantially increased in January 1980. Production from existing
facilities however, have been severely restricted because of the lack of raw
materials due to the limited availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation; US$75 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committee is in place and functioning
effectively. Preparation of equipment specifications, tender documents and
procurement is making good progress. UNDP has appointed a project manager to
implement the project related training programs. The port sector planning
studies have been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are being taken to
correct this.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage; US$85 million of July 2, 1979. Effective Date;
January 21, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. A short list of prequalified
consultants have been invited to submit proposals by end October 1980 for
engineering design and supervision of continuation.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60 million
of July 12, 1979. Effective Date; October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 30
percent of the loan committed. TSKB and ITC finalized in November the
technical assistance program for training and export development is under
implementation.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (US$65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date: February 29,
1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local
training. The additional consultants for technical services and for the
extension services are being recruited. Revised Action Plans are being
prepared. Approval of sub-projects has begun, and about 15 percent of the
loan has been committed.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of
December 12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date;
December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.
Ln. No. 1818 Structural Adjustment Loan: US$200 million loan of March 26,
1980.  Effective Date;  April 1, 1980.  Closing Date:  September 30, 1981.
The loan is fully committed and disbursements were $128 million as of
October 21, 1980. Progress has been satisfactory, and the second tranche was
released on July 30, 1980 and the final one on October 23, 1980.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower: US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date: August 15, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making progress.



- 43 -
ANNA( I i
Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization; US$62
million of May 28, 1980. Effective Date: January 1, 1981. Closing Date;
June 30, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective. Project implementation has begun.
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V: US$51 million of June 6, 1980. Effective Date;
November 6, 1980. Closing Date; June 30, 1987.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 44 -                     ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SUPPLEMENT)
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Date of first presentation to Bank:             March 1980
(b) Appraisal mission:                              June 1980
(c) Completion of negotiations:                     October 1980
(d) Planned date of effectiveness:                  November 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Periodic reviews of progress in implementing structural adjustment
program, and especially in areas of exports, public investment, domestic
resource mobilization, and external debt (para. 28).
2.        Exports:  adequacy of export promotion policies and administrative
measures (para. 34), including:
(a) Government to carry out protection and incentives study; first
phase to be completed by January 31, 19.81 (para. 31);
(b) Government to establish export credit risk insurance scheme by
March 31, 1981 (para. 33); and
(c) Government to improve institutional arrangements for export promo-
tion (para. 33).
3.        Public investment:
(a) Overall level to be matched with available resources (para. 42); and
(b) Composition to be determined according to priority criteria
(para. 42).
4.        Domestic resource mobilization:  adequacy of measures to increase
this, including objective of minimizing overall deficit financing in the
public sector in 1980 and 1981 (para. 35).



- 45 -                ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
5.       External debt:
(a) Continuation of sound debt management policy (para. 44); and
(b) Computerization of external debt data (para. 44).
6.       Minimum allocation of $25 million to private firms (para. 56).
7.       Counterpart funds to be spent on development projects (para. 60)
8.       Retroactive financing of up to $10 million worth of expenditures
after October 1, 1980 (para. 61).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 5
- 46 -
TURKISH REP'UJBLIC
PRIME MINISTRY
STATE PLANNING ORGANIZATION
Ankara
Mr. Robert S. McNamara                                             February / 7 / 1980
President
World Bank
Washington D. C.
Dear Mr. McNamara:
January 1980 Economic Program
& Medium-Term Economic Policies
1.       Earlier this month, my senior colleagues and I explained to you and
your colleagues, the comprehensiveness of the economic program put into effect
on January 24, 1980 by my Government. Our analysis of the deep-rooted causes
of the economic difficulties facing Turkey, the structural changes which are
needed to resolve them, the key macro-economic areas on which we must focus
to bring about these essential structural changes, the details of the measures
taken through the said Program, and the basic economic philosophy and the
directions in which we intend to bring about these structural changes in the
medium-term, are reflected in the attached documents entitled Economic
Stabilization Program of Turkey (January 24, 1980) and A Position Paper on the
Medium Term Development Problems and Prospects of Turkey (January 1980).*
2.       I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to reiterate the
basic policy objectives underlying the January 1980 Program and the major
changes that have been initiated through it, which we intend to follow-up con-
sistently in the future to bring about the structural changes that underlie our
philosophy.
New Economic Approach
3.       This Program is a radical departure from past practices.  It has been
formulated with the basic truth in mind that unless some substantial and far-
reaching measures are taken and followed through to correct the fundamental
problems adversely affecting Turkish economic development, stagnation would
set in as a permanent feature of our economy. I am confident that the com-
prehensive and far-reaching nature of these measures and policies, and our
determination to follow through with them now and over the medium-term, will
earn international support which is so necessary to ensure their success. The
major policy objectives which underlie my Government's determination to give
the economy a major reorientation, are essentially as follows:
(a) Reliance on economic planning up to micro levels and adminis-
trative controls to realise planned targets and objectives needs to be shed,
and replaced by greater reliance on market mechanisms and forces;
(b) Curbing of inflation has more iLportance and greater priority
than the attainment of higher growth rates in the current situation;
(c) Import substitution and protection oriented policies, which
resulted in bias against exports in favor of the domestic market, must give
way to those which encourage both our public and private sectors to improve
productivity and, to the extent feasible, be internationally competitive;
* Available in Project File.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
(t) The fulcrum of our development policy should be to correctly
set the rate of exchange and operate an effective exchange rate policy to
ensure that our foreign trade orientation changes to one where Turkey
should rely heavily in future on export earnings and other foreign currency
earning activities, including workers remittances, private foreign invest-
ment, tourism and transfer of savings from abroad;
(e) Reform of the SEE sector is needed so that it no longer
constitutes a drain on the Government's budget, nor its investment programs
continue to be one of the basic causes of inflationary pressures;
(f) Since one of the most alarming features of- our economy is the
decrease in domestic savings as a percent of GDP, domestic resource mobil-
ization efforts stressing reliance on taxes, augmentation of public and
household savings and greater reliance on the banking system and financial
markets, needs to be substantially increased;
(g) Utilization of existing productive capacity and essential new
investments stressing exports and employment or those removing critical infra-
structure bottlenecks must be made, with due consideration to the scarcity of
resources.
Structural Reforms Initiated Through January 1980 Program
4.       I would like to emphasize that it is in order to initiate and bring
about in the medium-term, a fundamental structural change in our economy and
the policies to accomplish it, that through the January 1980 Program we took
several measures in the following key areas: (a) a rational exchange rate policy;
(b) policies geared to increasing exports and encouraging foreign investments;
(c) reform of the SEE sector to improve its efficiency and shift Turkey's orien-
tation in a manner designed to encourage our private sector for both manufac-
turing and exports; (d) policies to mobilize savings and better allocate
resources, using market forces and incentives; and (e) formulation and pursuit
of a rational external debt management policy.
5.       I do not wish to dwell on the details of the measures.  These are
reflected in the attached documents and have been fully explained by us to you
and your staff. I would however like to pinpoint here, the basic structural
changes which this Program has sought to make and which it is my Government's
determination to vigorously pursue, now and over the medium-term:
(a) As the documents state in various places, exchange rate modific-
ations taking into account the rate of inflation in Turkey and that of her
trading partners, are to be relied upon by Turkey to earn foreign exchange,
to make Turkish industry and agriculture competitive and to reduce future
pressures on the balance of payments.  This is a fundamental departure from
past policies, under which the parity of the TL was not being adjusted
adequately and in time.
(b) Through the exchange rate mechanism and several incentive schemes,
including an interim arrangement to provide export risk insurance coverage and
term credits and working capital to exporters, a new "outward" orientation tc.
foreign markets rather than an inward orientation to domestic markets as in the
past, has been clearly affirmed.  Steps have been taken to reduce "protection
quotas" in import lists, and as the attached documents affirm, it will be
Turkish policy to gradually move away from a system of industrial protection
based on quotas.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 5
- 48 -
(c) A major reorientation away from the State sector is clearly
enunciated as a matter of policy; our intention is to rely on market forces
and not administrative fiats, to stimulate the private sector, while opening
Turkey to foreign investments in industry, agriculture and oil through far-
reaching incentives. These constitute a drastic change of policy direction,
since in the past, the public sector was favored, planning and controls
reached to micro levels, and foreign investments were in practice not en-
couraged.
(d) Through artificially controlled low prices, through budgetary
subsidies towards operating deficits and through Central Bank borrowings to
finance their investments, the SEE sector has been a major drain on the
economy in recent years. Policy measures taken and policy directions embod-
ied in the attached documents, aim to expose SEEs to market forces, so they
can fend for themselves to cover their operating costs and generate funds for
their future investments.  This is another structural change in Turkish economic
philosophy, which will inevitably have a major beneficial medium-term effect
on Turkey's development.
(e) Measures to increase savings will have to be taken on every front,
namely the budget, SEEs, private sector and foreign capital. The Government is
determined to generate future revenues increasingly through major tax efforts,
including improved tax administration and the restructuring and rationalization
of the tax system. This is another major change of policy, since there has not
been a major tax effort during the last 8 years.
(f) Turkey so far believed in fixed interest rates for lending in
various sectors, because of its policy of channelling resources to those sectors
considered important for Turkey's development. While the interest rates for
lending have now been increased for all sectors by only 2 percent, a major
policy change which the attached documents highlight, is the liberalization of
the interest rate regime achieved by allowing the borrower and his bank to
negotiate rates for lending beyond 5 years and for deposits beyond 4 years;
(g) The Government has not only confirmed its determination to contain
investment in 1980 and future years to available fiscal resources, but also to
make further investments according to the criteria stated in para. 3(g) above;
indeed, we are already reviewing ongoing projects to see whose implementation
should be stopped, slowed down or accelerated.
(h) The Government is taking steps to articulate a rational external
debt management policy, so as to seek realistic rescheduling of existing debts
*            and undertake prudent borrowing for its future investments.
Further Steps To Foster Structural Changes
6.       In the implementation of these structural changes, we have set the
following objectives and targets over the short- and the medium-term:
(a)  Our key objective,to restore strength to our balance of payments
and earn foreign exchange, will be to attain a 25 percent annual growth in
current terms in our industrial and agricultural exports,        and in any case
through continued policy measures on the aforementioned lines to achieve at
least a real export growth averaging 10 percent per annum from 1980 to 1983;



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 5
- 49 -
(b) Through our January 1980 package we have already established on
an interim basis, a fund to cover export credit risk insurance and provide
priority access to foreign exchange, term credits and working capital to
public and private sector firms which could achieve greater export earnings.
We propose to review, before the end of October 1980, the efficacy of these
interim arrangements and should we determine that different or more permanent
arrangements are necessary, we will take appropriate action. In addition,
by that time we expect to have completed our review of the institutional
arrangements to promote the further development of our traditional and non-
traditional export products and commodities.
(c) As indicated in the Position Paper, we have taken and will
continue to take measures reflecting an optimal trade-oriented policy, removing
bias against exports, establishing domestic equilibrium prices for basic goods
in line with world prices, and eliminating the general severe rationing of
foreign currency. Turkish import regulations have already been greatly relaxed,
quantitative restrictions largely reduced and the rates of import guarantee
bonds decreased. However, to determine a comprehensive approach towards the
implementation of our basic policy to rationalize the protection system for
Turkish industry, we are taking steps to co-mence by the end of April 1980, a
study for the purpose of introducing a more rational protection and incentive
system based on tariffs. We expect to complete the study in about one year,
and subsequently introduce it. We would envisage that the rationalized protec-
tion system will be in place by 1984. Indeed, my Government would appreciate
the Bank's support for this study.
(d) The objectives of our external debt management policy are:
(i) substantial improvement of the repayment profile of rescheduled short-term
and medium-term debts,and the containment of our short-term indebtedness over
the medium to no more than the present level, so as to alleviate the heavy debt
servicing burden over the next five years; and (ii) securing of new external
credits on as long-term and concessional basis as possible, since such credits
are essential to completing ongoing projects and undertaking new priority ones.
However, for further improvements in, and refinement of, this policy, we have
already initiated a comprehensive study on external debt management which we
expect to complete before the end of October 1980.
(e) To achieve a decisive and lasting success in the medium term and
re-establishing a firm foundation for viable economic development, there is
need for Parliamentary acts, as stated in our Position Paper, to augment
domestic mobilization through changes in the tax laws with the aim of: improving
income distribution for the benefit of low income groups by restructuring the
tax rates and increasing the level of exemptions; increasing public revenues
by closing loopholes which presently allow evasion, and eliminating the effects
of inflationary erosion of lumpsum taxes. Against this background, the elim-
ination of the overall deficit financing of the public sector, which the
January 1980 Program seeks to achieve for the current year, will continue to
be an important objective of future budgets.
(f) The use of interest rate policy as a flexible tool for mobil-
izing savings and allocating them, is recognized in our January 80 Program and
will continue to be used for this purpose. As the Bank is aware, Turkey has
also completed a Financial Sector Study,which amongst other matters also
reviews the important role played by the structure of interest rates in the
development process. We have therefore already invited a mission to visit
in March 80, to discuss ti'e tentative findings of this Study so that our
experts can make detailed proposals for implementation or further studies as
appropriate. By mid-1980, we also expect to complete a review of our measures,



ANNEX IV
Page S of 5
in addition to those we have already taken, to encourage increases in
household savings and time deposits.
(g) As stated ini our Position Paper, control of inflatUis is more
important at present than the attainment of a higher growth. In recegnitior
of this, we intend to insure that in our future Annual InvestUat Program, t:t
level of annual investment is rigomously tailored to the projected availabili-
of scarce resources each year and meets the criteria mentioned earlier in
this letter. These considerations related to the size and quality of invest-
ments programs, have already been reflected in the Annual Program for the
preceding years as well as that for 1980.  I wish to reiterate that comenc:-
from 1980, should domestic and foreign exchange actually available fall shor:
of those estimated in the Annual Investment Program each year the available
resources will be channelled to those projects having the highest priority
according to that criteria, and the list of which will be provided separate':
to the Bank.
7.       This letter summarizes the essence of the Government's new economic
policy objectives, designed to bring about essential structural changes in t-t
medium-term in the key areas of our economy, in order that Turkey may have a
sound and viable economic growth. The Government is determined to take all
appropriate and supplementary measures for the success of our January 1980
program and these policies. To assist us in achieving these fundamental
objectives, we are counting on the continued support of the international
financial and commercial banking community, including the WJorld Bank, both
through project loans and additional program assistance. It is our hope tha:
the World Bank would not only support these efforts  Birough the provision c$
a second Program Loan in the coming weeks, but also through other progran
assistance, as appropriate, during the 1979-1983 period. In this context, v-
realize that due to changing domestic and international economic conditions,
revisions and adjustments will need to be made in the overall strategies, V-:nCh
we expect to discuss with the World Bank as part of our continuing periodic
dialogue on major economic matters.  I hardly need to stress that substantaa..
financial support from the Bank, will considerably assist Turkey in achiev-iz
its objective of sustained economic growth on a sound and viable basis.
Yours faithfully
I, 
A 1~urgut Ozal
Undersecretary, Pra-me Ministry
and
Acting Undersecretary
State Planning Organization



- 51 -                  ANNEX V
Page 1 of 4
SECTORAL CONSIDERATIONS UNDERLYING THE PROPOSED LOAN
Agriculture
1.       In 1980, agricultural value added is estimated to increase by 2.6
percent, and provided sufficient inputs are available, growth could reach
about 3 percent in 1981. Over the first eight months of 1980, agricultural
exports grew only 6 percent in value over the corresponding period of last
year; while prices were uniformly favorable, there were declines in the
volume of exports of wheat, cotton, hazelnuts, and fruit and vegetables, a
variety of factors being responsible. However, there is no evidence that
policy or institutional weaknesses have played a significant role. The
Government expects a marked improvement in the remaining months of the year,
as a result of normal seasonal increases, higher support prices and the
increased availability of finance for official crop purchases and private
exports. In 1981, agricultural exports should show a healthy increase after
the good crop being harvested in 1980.
2.       The shortage of foreign exchange had only a limited impact on the
use of modern inputs in agriculture through 1979, because of the existence
of previously imported stocks and the high priority given to imported inputs
for agriculture in the allocation of foreign exchange, including the FY79
Program Loan. In 1980, consumption of both nitrogenous and phosphatic
fertilizers is estimated to have fallen by 14 percent, mainly as a result
of a sixfold increase in prices; indications are that wasteful application
of fertilizers has been significantly reduced. In 1981, consumption is
expected to increase rapidly again, to 0.9 million tons of nitrogenous and
0.7 million tons of phosphatic fertilizers. Domestic production now meets
about 60 percent of demand and is also projected to increase rapidly in
1981. While the cost of importing finished products must be compared with
the additional costs (both foreign exchange and local) of keeping the
existing plants running, there is little doubt that higher priority should
attach to the import of fertilizer inputs rather than that of finished
products. As a result, imports of finished fertilizers should be contained
at $392 million in 1981, compared with $376 million in 1979 and an estimated
$444 million in 1980. To support the increased domestic production, the
volume of imports of raw materials and intermediate inputs for fertilizer
production will increase from 950,000 tons in 1979 to an estimated 1,350,000
tons in 1980, permitting some rebuilding of badly-depleted stocks, and a
projected 1,800,000 tons in 1981, to match the build-up of production. The
cost of these imports is projected to rise from $119 million in 1979 and an
estimated $167 million in 1980 to $204 million in 1981. The domestic
factories are heavily dependent on imported inputs and have been operating
at low levels of capacity utilization. The main reason is the shortage of
raw materials and spares, although power shortages, mechanical breakdowns
and personnel problems have also contributed. Reduction in the supply of
fertilizer raw material could significantly affect future output and
exports; for each $1 reduction in imported fertilizer raw material, an
estimated $3 of wheat exports or $6 of cotton exports are jeopardized.



- 52 -                     ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
3.        Consumption of plant protection chemicals is nearly 70,000 tons per
annum. Domestic facilities for producing such chemicals have sufficient
capacity to meet national demand for their limited product range, but cannot
produce many items needed in Turkey. Financing for imports of finished
plant protection chemicals, as well as raw materials, is therefore needed.
The domestic factories have been running far below capacity, largely for
lack of imported inputs. Their output is projected to increase, given the
availability of such inputs, from 26,000 tons in 1979 to 39,000 tons in 1980
and 45,000 tons in 1981. Imports should be reduced sharply, from 51,000
tons (costing $66 million) in 1979 to 24-25,000 tons (costing about $85
million because of recent rapid price increases) in both 1980 and 1981 with
a shift in composition from finished products to inputs.
Manufacturing
4.        The performance of manufacturing industry was particularly dis-
appointing in 1979, with a decline in real value added of 3.9 percent. This
was reflected in the decLine to a new low level of capacity utilization of
45 percent. A number of factors contributed to the slowdown: continuing
power shortages and a growing shortage of fuel oil; delays in output from
major new capacity in some industries; and technical and management problems
affecting a number of large plants, especially in the public sector. But
the major reason was the acute shortage of foreign exchange for imported
inputs for the major import dependent industries. By priority allocation of
scarce foreign exchange to finance imported inputs, a few essential indus-
tries were able to increase their output in 1979, e.g. output of both
nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers grew, by 31 and 28 percent respec-
tively, and steel output by 11 percent. Certain other industries were able
to maintain or slightly increase output with the help of retained export
earnings which they could use to finance imported inputs, e.g. tobacco,
ferro alloys, commercial vehicles, and certain consumer durables. Most
industrial firms, however, suffered declines in output. The most affected
were the engineering and metal fabricating industries, particularly in the
private sector, as domestic supplies of metals dwindled and imports were
cut. Since the affected industries provide almost half of manufacturing
employment, the latter declined by 2 percent in 1979.
5.        The estimated performance in 1980 is somewhat better than the out-
come in 1979, but still inadequate. In the first half of 1980, further pro-
duction falls occurred in many industries as the foreign exchange shortage
barely eased. Of 104 key commodities surveyed by SPO, 59 showed lower pro-
duction than in the first half of 1979. Available figures for the first
eight months, many covering only public sector output, show declines in 30
out of 40 items. Steel and aluminum output have both fallen 3 percent, and
copper output by 18 percent, compared to the same period in 1979. Neverthe-
less, the Government feels that the tide has turned now, especially as labor
disputes in the metal working, glass and textile industries have been ended
by the military regime. Overall, however, industrial output may not grow
for the year as a whole. The outlook for 1981 is brighter, with manufactur-
ing value added projected to grow by about 4 percent. Capacity utilization



- 53 -                  ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
is expected to improve over the dismal levels of 1979 and 1980. A crucial
policy in the January 1980 program is for the Government to be selective in
its support for industry. Priority is being given to those industries which
are energy-related or have export potential, and to those projects which are
almost completed. These criteria are the same as those governing the public
investment program. Those SEEs and the few private sector industries which
supply essential consumer goods are expected either to maintain production
levels, or to increase output to some extent.
6.       The general climate for manufactured exports has improved, follow-
ing crucial policy changes adopted in the January 1980 program and there-
after.  Particularly beneficial is the new emphasis given by the Government
to export promotion and the centralization of authority to simplify admin-
istrative procedures. However, manufactured exports have not performed as
well as expected. Data for the first eight months of 1980 show that they
declined in volume terms compared to the same period of 1979, and grew by
only 4 percent in value. Two items showing large volume declines are
cement, which was greatly affected by fuel oil shortages in early 1980,
and cotton yarn, affected recently by labor disputes. Other items taken
together show satisfactory increases of close to 20 percent in export value
compared to 1979. The Government expects a strong increase in exports in
the second half of 1980, when the measures described earlier in this report
take full effect, including the ending of labor disputes. The need to
export and to secure a larger market share under competitive conditions
abroad is widely recognized both in the Government and in industrial and
trading circles, and the message has gone out to the firm level on the
Government's commitment to improve export performance. For the longer-term,
substantial changes will be needed in the pattern of incentives and levels
of protection for various categories of industrial activities, to alter the
historical bias favoring domestic markets and make exports at least equally
attractive.
7.       Steel consumption dipped 4 percent in 1979 before increasing by an
estimated 16 percent in 1980, and is projected to increase 5 percent in
1981. Domestic production grew 11 percent in 1979, but has fallen 3 percent
in the first eight months of 1980 compared to the same period last year. It
is projected to grow 15 percent in 1981. Steel imports have been reduced
from 1.4 million tons in 1978 to 0.8 million tons in 1980 as domestic pro-
duction grew, but price increases have offset the entire saving. They are
projected to increase to 1.3 million tons in 1981, to permit some rebuilding
of stocks, at an estimated cost of $433 million. The cost of imported raw
materials to support the projected increase in domestic production will rise
substantially in 1981.
8.       Aluminum consumption has been severely repressed, falling by one-
third from its 1978 level to 44,000 tons in 1979 and showing no recovery in
1980. This reflects the closure of one of the two production lines at the
only domestic smelter to conserve electric power. Production has thus
remained around 32,000 tons for three years. Imports have been reduced
progressively, intensifying the shortage, since they could not be financed



54                   ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
except by exporters. In 1981, the Government hopes to restart the second
production line as the power situation eases, and also to increase imports
to 15,000 tons (at a cost of $28 million), to ease the constraint on
consumption.
9.       Copper consumption has also been cut by about one-third between
1978 and 1980. Domestic production fell 19 percent in 1979, and in the
first eight months of 1980 was a further 18 percent below the level in the
corresponding period of last year. The Government aims to make up lost
ground through a very large increase in production in 1981, requiring a
substantial increase in imported inputs, to permit a recovery of consumption
without imports of finished products.
10.      Petrochemicals output was cut back in 1979 on account of shortages
of imported materials, with consequential curtailment of the output of
downstream units also. In 1980, output is expected to recover with a 10
percent increase. Petrochemicals imports are expected to be held to around
the 1979 level in 1980, and to reach 158,000 tons (at a cost of $144 mil-
lion) in 1981. Imports of other chemicals are expected to be about $400
million in 1981, taking account of international price changes.



30                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AU.F   A
Trabzon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Doib~o
40-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
aX                                                                        orum anea  SaTASPRAIN    N                                  AO
PC ~   ~     ~     CPU                      J S Rka                      PPLAINCETR
II~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~PLN, ke                                               S -Sk           R
bergama  Kuran ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ r---t                    BIc  Sr
-       nentoalbudre                                 
CIL,                                             kßeh0irOoo                                      a,4e0999j,9usd  , m   Re     .
'es  I                                             i deI                                ~9           U A(
MI LEO  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~           ~    ~     ~    ~      ~~~~           IRAQ  ~~~~~~~~~~~ l~~~~~(ANiarc
D  a 3.rhi''d ony'CRTEo 
Isparta ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~YRS~5 - 



