LAJ. 81gJ--
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FIL E                    0 PY
Report No. P-2725-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP!
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
February 29, 1980
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only hu the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  Calendar 1978           July 1979        Jan 1980
US Dollar 1          =            TL 24.28              TL 47.10 /1    TL 70.00 /2
TL 1                 =            US$ 0.04              US$ 0.02        US$ 0.01
/1   Except for imports of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilizer raw
materials, and exports of agricultural products benefiting from official
price supports, for which it was TL 35 = US$1.00.
/2   Except for imports of fertiLizers and insecticides/pesticides, as well as
raw materials and inputs for their manufacture, for which the rate is
TL55=US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey                                           March 1 to February 28
ABBREVIATIONS
EEC                                  European Economic Community
LIBOR                                London Inter Bank Offer Rate
M & LT                               Medium and Long Term
SEE                                  State Economic Enterprise
SPO                                  State Planning Organization
TSKB                                 Turkish Industrial Development Bank
The Structural Adjustment Loan was appraised by a mission consisting of
Mr. J. Thadani (leader), Mrs. S. Fukuda-Parr, Messrs. Eisa, Gowen, Gregory,
Krishnamurty (consultant) and Hancock (consultant).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Turkey
Amount:              US$200 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:               Seventeen years including four years grace, at 8.25
percent per annum.
Description:         The loan will be in support of structural adjustment
policies adopted, and to be adopted, by Turkey. These
policies are aimed at promoting: greater reliance on
market forces and less on direct state intervention and
control; increased export orientation; increased mobil-
ization of domestic resources; and a self-reliant State
Economic Enterprise sector having higher productivity and
better management and which sets own prices sufficient to
cover operating costs and investment needs.
The loan will finance high priority imports to assist
fuller utilization of productive capacity in agricul-
ture and industry. For agriculture: plant protection
chemicals and raw materials and fertilizer raw materials
($100 million). For industry: steels, special steels,
steel products, tin, tinplate, copper, aluminium, petro-
chemicals and other chemicals ($100 million). Turkey
will provide complementary funds (at least $30 million)
towards spare parts for industries. Private sector firms
would receive at least $65 million from the loan, and 33
percent of the total $230 million of Government and Bank
funds.
The loan would be disbursed in three tranches. $100 mil-
lion would be available for disbursement after effective-
ness, $50 million would be disbursed after the first
review of the progress of the medium-term recovery program
to be carried out before July 31, 1980, and the balance $50
million after the second such review before December 31,
1980.
The main risks relate to possible developments in Turkey
which might impede the Government's efforts to carry out
the stringent short-term and medium-term recovery and
structural adjustment programs it has formulated.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                                     US$ Millions
Bank FY  1980       1981
Annual                                       90.0      110.0
Cumulative                                   90.0     200.0
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Turkey, for the equivalent of
US$200 million to help finance essential recurrent imports to assist with the
fuller utilization of industrial and agricultural capacity. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace with interest at 8.25
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Special Economic Mission visited Turkey in April/May 1979 to
evaluate the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83). Following discussion with the
Government in mid October 1979, its report entitled "Turkey: Policies and
Prospects for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU dated December 12, 1979), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on December 13, 1979. Its findings as well as
those of the appraisal mission in July 1979 for the proposed loan, are reflec-
ted in this Part. Annex I contains the Basic Country Data.
Development Trends and Policies
3.        As the result of a strong commitment to rapid growth and moderniza-
tion, GDP increased at an average annual rate of 6.4 percent, 6.7 percent and
7.2 percent respectively during the First Plan (1963-67), Second Plan (1968-72),
and Third Plan (1973-77) periods. This compares favorably with the experience
of 55 "middle income" developing countries, whose GDP grew on an average 6.0
percent per annum between 1960-70 and 6.1 percent per annum between 1970-77.
Moreover, the relatively high growth rate in Turkey was achieved without
significant deposits of oil or other important natural resources.
4.        Growth was accompanied by significant social changes.  Although
population grew at 2.5 percent per annum, rapid GDP growth allowed nevertheless
substantial advances in per capita income. However, rising income levels were
not accompanied by better income distribution and significant sectoral and
regional inequalities in income exist, although basic needs have been satisfac-
torily met. The democratic political framework was maintained despite the
Army's intervention in 1960 and 1971. While the system preserved essential
liberties, it was also beset by political instability, widespread terrorism,
increased bureaucratization and resistance to reform.
5.        The public sector has played a key role in economic and social
development. Between 1963 and 1977, the share of the public sector in total
fixed investment fluctuated around 50 percent, and its share of fixed invest-
ment in manufacturing increased from 21 to nearly 49 percent. The public
sector dominates basic industries. Nevertheless, the private sector has
emerged as an increasingly important and dynamic element in the economy and
is beginning to shift its orientation from consumer goods to intermediate and



-2-
investment goods, and from the domestic market to exports. Private sector
investment increased at nearly 11.5 percent per year in real terms during
1967-77 compared to an average annual increase of only 4.8 percent between
1963 and 1967.
6.        Turkish development between 1963-77, however, exhibii> a number of
structural characteristics which are of considerable relevance for future
development policy. First, for a country of Turkey's size and per capita
income, it has a very low level of exports relative to GDP--about 4 percent
in 1977--as against an import level of around 20 percent of GDP, which is
more or less "normal" for middle income countries like Turkey. This disparity
highlights the vulnerability of the balance-of-payments and the importance of
export development to sustain the needed inflow of foreign exchange resources.
Second, while the level of investment relative to GDP increased rapidly and
compares favorably with other developing countries, the mobilization of
domestic savings has lagged; the ratio of domestic savings to GDP is consider-
ably below the average for middle income countries; the growing gap between
domestic savings and investment led in the mid-70s to a relatively high level
of external borrowing, and to domestic inflationary pressures emanating from
excess demand and deficit financing. Third, a relatively high proportion of
the labor force is still in agriculture, reflecting significant disguised
unemployment and the need for accelerated job creation in non-agricultural
activities; that in industry is low compared to other large middle income
countries; besides, the relatively inadequate generation of additional
employment has become more serious following the near cessation of workers'
migration to Europe since 1974. Fourth, despite the growing dynamism of
the private sector, the industrial scene is dominated by inefficient State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs) which were not exposed to market forces and serve
not only economic, but also social goals; their growing deficits impose
inflationary burden on the budget, while their ambitious investment programs
have to be financed through Central Bank borrowings, since their controlled
prices do not enable most of them to generate sufficient cash to cover costs
or investment expenditures. Fifth, due to the successes achieved since the
early sixties through economic planning, there has been an increasing tendency
to plan up to a micro-level and seek to achieve changes through administrative
fiats; however, the economy has reached a stage where such excessive reliance
on objectives and a pervasive and inefficient administration becomes counter
productive; planning needs to be increasingly geared towards setting a frame-
work in which market forces could secure the desired economic results in both
the public and private sectors.
The Economic Crisis
7.        These economic, institutional and structural characteristics of
the economy made it particularly vulnerable to the sharp increase in oil
prices in 1974 and the simultaneous occurence of recession, inflation and
rising unemployment in the industrial countries. These factors played a key
part in the deterioration of the Turkish economic situation. However, the
politically weak governments and their policies in response to these factors,
played as important a role in creating the economic crisis that began in
mid-1977 and still continues.



-3-
8.         The worsening international environment was met by an effort to
raise the rate of GDP growth. This was set in motion by rapid increases in
investment and consumption expenditures, spearheaded by the public sector.
The growth rate of public investment in 1974-77 was 4-1/2 times higher than in
1970-73. That of public consumption nearly doubled. The budget deficit as a
percentage of GDP increased. The rate of increase of money supply accelerated
to finance growing expenditure, leading to a growing rate of inflation.
9.        These were accompanied by unfavorable developments in the balance--
of-payments. Merchandise exports declined in volume and grew only slowly in
value, while imports continued to increase rapidly. The slowdown of exports
was due partly to the recession in the importing countries, and partly to the
booming domestic economy which, together with an overvalued TL, provided a
highly profitable market. Similarly, about half of the explosive growth of
imports was due to rising world prices, especially of oil; but the other half
was due to a steep rise in the volume of imports to sustain the economy and an
escalated investment program. The problems were aggravated by a decline in
workers' remittances caused by the recession in Europe, a holding back of
remittances in anticipation of exchange rate adjustments and their diversion
to other channels as the difference between official and unofficial exchange
rates increased.
10.       The Government's reaction to the strained balance-of-payments and
the exhaustion of the foreign exchange reserves was to sustain high levels of
investment and growth through external borrowing - mainly on a short-term
basis, given the lack of significant long-term aid at that time. Short-term
external debt increased from $216 million in 1974 to $6.6 billion in 1977. By
mid 1977, a crisis stage was reached. The inflow of external capital dried up.
The boom collapsed, leaving a host of domestic and external problems needing
resolution before stable growth could be resumed.
Short-Term Issues and 1978-79 Stabilization Efforts
11.       By August 1977, Turkey began taking stabilization measures. These
included increases in SEE prices, increased levies to dampen imports and
curbing of some new investments. By then, it was apparent that more drastic
stabilization measures would be needed to stem the economic deterioration.
Following elections in late 1977, a new government developed its own stabiliza-
tion program in early 1978. It was designed to focus on the following short-
term stabilization issues: (a) improvement of the balance of payments through
stimulation of exports; (b) improved domestic resources mobilization, by
limiting the consolidated public sector deficits and the growth of money
suppl7i; and (c) higher M&LT external borrowing and rescheduling of short-term
debt_.  This formed the basis of the IMF's April 1978 Standby Arrangements.
12.       However by 1978, the outcome was mixed, when compared to the
targets and goals of the stabilization package. The balance of payment
position remained weak, although the current account deficit declined to $1.7
billion, less than half of the 1977 deficit and below the Standby's target.
The decline was achieved through a notable increase in exports, but more
importantly, through a sharp curtailment of imports below the Standby's



- 4 -
goals. The resulting lack of imported inputs, despite resort by importers to
the "unofficial" use of worker remittances which led to stagnation of recorded
remittances, had a considerable adverse impact on domestic output, particularly
industry.
13.       AnoL!er cause of a weak balance of payments was the low inflow of
M&LT foreign credits.  Mobilization of new credits proved more difficult than
expected. Besides, slow project implementation caused lower disbursements
than envisaged in early 1978. The net capital inflow was about $900 million
in 1978.  The overall balance of payments deficit of $950 million, was financed
by drawings from the IMF and other short-term sources.
14.       The performance on domestic resource mobilization was even more
disappointing. The consolidated budget deficit of TL 35 billion (2.8 percent
of GNP) was significantly larger than anticipated. SEEs losses, at about TL
50 billion, were higher than in 1977 despite periodic major increases in SEE
prices throughout 1978. There was a sizeable increase in public sector
borrowings from the Central Bank; the resulting monetary expansion (37 percent
growth over the previous year) combined with the cost push effects of import
restrictions and wage increases averaging about 50 percent, raised the price
level by about 50 percent during 1978. It continued to rise at a similar rate
in the first half of 1979. These adverse developments were reviewed in late
1978 by Turkey and the IMF, as envisaged in the Arrangements, from the viewpoint
of making necessary modifications. However, since no mutually satisfactory
solutions could be found, withdrawals were suspended by the end of the year.
15.       In March/April 1979, Turkey announced a new stabilization program
and undertook several drastic, but essential and overdue measures; then in
July, it concluded a new IMF Standby Arrangement. The principal measures
taken, may be summarized as follows: (a) to improve the balance-of-payments,
the TL was devalued in several steps until June, when a new buying rate of TL
47.10 per US$1 was established for most foreign trade and all invisibles 1/;
the new rate represented a depreciation in export-weighted terms of nearly 75
percent since the fourth quarter of 1970, and 50 percent since the previous
major adjustment in March 1978; it more than offsets the differential infla-
tion rate during the course of 1978-79 between Turkey and its major trading
partners; (b) to further stimulate exports of industrial and mining products,
exporters were allowed to retain 50 percent (up from 25 percent) of their
foreign exchange earnings to finance their imported inputs or those of their
local suppliers; (c) to improve the financial position of SEEs, further
substantial price increases (34 percent to 110 percent) were announced for a
number of products, raising them above world prices at the new exchange rate;
these increases were estimated to yield an additional TL 80 billion in FY1979,
to help reduce the overall borrowing requirement of the public sector; and (d)
to ensure more effective mobilization and allocation of resources, interest
rates for deposits and loans were increased substantially, from up to a
maximum of 16 percent p.a. to over 24 percent p.a.; repatriated savings of
migrant workers were allowed an additional interest premium.
1/   Excluding exports of several price supported agricultural products and
imports of crude oil, petroleum products and inputs for the production of
fertilizers, for which, a rate of TL 35 per US$1 was set.



-5-
16.       The July 1979 Standby, covers a twelve month period.  It foresaw
total purchases of SDR 250 million in four tranches - SDR 70 million initially,
SDR 60 million after November 22, 1979, another SDR 60 million after March
20, 1980, and the balance of SDR 60 million after June 20, 1980. It provided
for a series of specific performance targets to strengthen the public finances,
reduce inflation and improve the balance-of-payments situation in the short
term.  On the balance-of-payments side it:  (a) provided for continuation of
an exchange rate policy conducive to the maintenance of Turkey's competitive
position in foreign markets, to be reviewed before the release of the November
1979 and March 1980 tranches; (b) excluded introduction of new multiple currency
practices; (c) placed limits on outstanding foreign arrears and provided for
repayments in an orderly fashion through further debt rescheduling; (d) limited
contracting of new public sector or government guaranteed foreign debt with an
original maturity of less than ten years to $1 billion during the period of
the Standby, of which not more than $500 million with maturities of less than
5 years. On the public finance side, when the Standby was concluded, it was
expected that: (a) total net public sector borrowing in 1979 could be
contained at about TL 155 billion (about 7 percent less than in 1978); (b) net
new Central Bank credits to the public sector would be limited to TL 94
billion during FY 1979 (about 8 percent more than in 1978); and (c) the
current policy of flexible and realistic SEE prices and efforts to improve
operating efficiency, to hold SEE net borrowing requirements at TL 95 billion
could be continued. This implied a reduction in the SEE deficit from an
estimated 4.4 percent of GDP in 1978 to 3.5 percent in 1979. To reduce
inflation, the Government limited net domestic assets of the Central Bank to
TL 399 billion by October 1979 and TL 444 billion by February 1980, the level
thereafter to be determined in common understanding with IMF.
17.       These measures were expected to prevent further deterioration in the
balance-of-payments during 1979, with essential imports projected at $5.0
billion, about the same level as the previous year in real terms. A substantial
increase in workers' remittances, to a level of $1.2 billion was expected to
compensate for the increasing interest payments on foreign debt. At the same
time, disbursements of medium-and long-term foreign aid, (including the Bank's
First Program Loan) were expected to increase markedly in 1979, thus reducing
the need for renewed short-term borrowing.
18.       In 1978, short-term debts continued to grow.  However, 1979 witnessed
the completion of a major Turkish effort to alleviate the primary external
debt issue through: (a) slowing the growth of short-term liabilities; (b)
-'        debt relief arrangements; and (c) efforts to pursue new sources of credits,
especially M&LT credits. The first debt relief operation, arranged through
the OECD Consortium for Turkey in May 1978, involved consolidation of $1.14
billion in arrears on guaranteed short-term and bilateral M&LT debt, as
well as amounts due over the 13-month period May 21, 1978-June 30, 1979. A
second such major rescheduling took place in July 1979 involving about $1.02
billion of the official bilateral and private guaranteed credits due between
July 1, 1979 and June 30, 1980. A third major arrangement, finalized in July
and August 1979 with commercial banks, rescheduled convertible lira deposits
($2.3 billion), banker's credits ($429 million) and third party reimbursement
credits ($300 million). About $317 million in oil debt was also rescheduled.
The total amount thus rescheduled was about $5.5 billion. This is perhaps the
largest debt rescheduling operation anywhere.



19.       Turkey also succeeded, though to a limited extent, in diversifying
sources and increasing the level of M&LT commitments. It secured commitments
of $547 million in 1978 in program loans and oil import financing credits from
Libya and Iran. In addition, an agreement was reached in mid-1979 with the
Saudi Fund, for $250 million in project credits. Perhaps the most important
arrangement arrived was the May 1979 OECD sponsored pledging of $1.45 billion
in special assistance, involving about $900 million in M&LT bilateral credits
and export credits, besides $407 million of medium-term credits from commercial
banks (finalized in September 1979). Agreements for all these funds were
expected to be finalized before the end of 1979. By that time, about $750
million of this, was estimated to be disbursed.
Economic Situation End 1979
20.       The economic crisis still continues.  The measures taken in the
context of the July 1979 Standby Arrangement have essentially succeeded
in arresting further economic deterioration. Since it came in effect only in
July 1979, it was recognized that the stabilization objectives which could be
realized within one year were necessarily limited, and the progress towards
them within the remaining six months of 1979, would also be quite modest.
21.       After a surge upto mid 1979, worker remittances slowed down; never-
theless, they totalled about $1.7 billion, against $983 million in 1978 and
the Standby's target of $1.2 billion. Industrial exports rose quite strongly
in the first half of 1979 in response to the changes in the parity value of
the TL in April and June 1979; but they subsequently slowed down, presumably,
partly due to severe shortages of imported inputs and partly due to "holding
back" in anticipation of further devaluation in the second half of that year.
Overall, exports totalled about $2.3 billion in 1979, against the Standby's
target of $2.7 billion. As a result of higher prices and the necessity of
purchasing oil on spot markets, the 1979 oil bill rose from the targeted $1.7
billion to nearly $2.5 billion. While imports in 1979 were contained at $5.1
billion, marginally higher than the Standby's target of $5.0 billion, the
large oil bill necessitated more than anticipated reductions in essential
imports. The problem was compounded by much lower inflow of new capital than
those envisaged in July 1979, because a significant part of the $900 million
committed by bilaterals in May 1979 at the OECD meeting, had not been made
effective up to December 1979; besides, only a portion of what was made
effective, was available to finance imports in 1979. Disbursements were
also lower than expected against the $407 million of new commercial bank
financing, because of its linkage with the November 1979 tranche of the
Standby Arrangements which could not take place in time due to a change of
government in Turkey in late 1979. Consequently, while the estimated current
account deficit of $1.6 billion in 1979 was more or less in line with the
target in the Standby Arrangements, the volume of imports declined by about 15
percent in 1979, following a decline of about 30 percent in 1978. Overall,
GNP growth in 1979 was about 1.5 percent.
22.       Under the great pressure imposed by extremely limited supplies of
vital imported inputs and products including oil, the resulting shortfalls
in export earnings, the shortages of a wide variety of consumer goods, and



- 7 -
much stronger pressure on wages than anticipated at the time of the Standby,
the rate of inflation, on an average annual basis, reached 80 percent in 1979.
This happened, despite the observance by Turkey of ceilings established under
the Standby for monetary expansion, ceilings for net Central Bank credit to
the public sector, lower borrowings by SEEs from the Central Bank and lower
levels of public investments in 1979.
Turkey's Medium-Term Economic Prospects
23.       The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83), approved by Parliament in
November 1978, was in many essential ways, an extension of the traditional
Turkish development planning. It set out to complete the unfinished tasks of
the Third Plan, and continued to emphasize on a high growth rate, a large
investment allocation for import substitution in basic and intermediate goods
industries, and reliance on administrative controls rather than on market
incentives. But it also attempted to address some development issues which
came to the fore during the economic crisis, i.e. export growth and increased
savings. Consequently, an export growth target of 18 percent p.a. in real
terms and a marginal savings ratio of 34 percent have been set, and priority
was also accorded to export-oriented investments. But investment allocations
provided mixed signals, favoring import substitution. Given the unattain-
ability of the marginal savings ratio and the likelihood that net capital
inflows will be below the Plan's assumption of about $1.6 billion p.a. in 1978
prices, the Plan's levels of investment and growth (8.2 percent p.a) during
1979-83, are clearly not going to be achieved.
24.       Against this background, the Bank has made its own prognosis based
on a general equilibrium model of the economy which permits quantification of
alternative policies and a detailed and consistent examination of Turkey's
medium-term prospects. Given the accumulation of economic problems of the
last 3 years, the political difficulties besetting the country, the additional
resources needed to cover the significantly increased cost of its minimal oil
imports, and the limitations which Turkey is likely to encounter over the
medium-term in significantly increasing the net inflow of capital, GDP growth
in real terms may average around 4 percent p.a. with a real growth of exports
about 10 percent p.a., during 1980-85. These growth rates appear attainable,
assuming continuation of appropriate economic policies (including those
announced in January 1980), and taking into account the low export base
and present underutilization of capacity. The international oil situation,
following the recent substantial oil price increases at end-1979, have a
major impact on future prospects. It is assumed that Turkey will continue
to contain the volume of oil imports between 1980-1985, at the 1977 level,
despite the growth of GNP.  Even then, the oil import bill is estimated to
increase to $3.2 billion in 1980 and $5.2 billion by 1985.  (Even in 1979, due
to higher prices and the necessity to purchase in spot markets, the oil bill
was $2.5 billion against $1.7 billion envisaged in early 1979.) This implies
a significant decline in annual per capita oil consumption. Annex II compares
the role of the oil bill in Turkey's imports and its contribution to the
current account deficits, historically and projected. As can be seen, the
net oil imports as a percentage of merchandise exports and non-factor services,
reached nearly 67 percent in 1979; even if oil consumption and imports are
contained, this percentage is likely to remain close to 60 percent until 1985.



- 8 -
The pressure this will exert on Turkey's already difficult balance of payments
position, is obvious. Although in constant dollars the ratio appears manage-
able, in current prices, the projected current account deficit as a percent of
GNP increases from 3 percent in 1979 to about 5.3 percent in 1980 and remains
at a level of about 4 percent thereafter until 1984. Considering the limita-
tion on the -)ss inflows of available external assistance (see paragraph 26),
and given the need for sound external debt management, Turkey can sustain an
average annual current account deficit of the order of $2 billion annually
over the next 5 years.
25.       This growth prognosis is more pessimistic than the one presented
in the Special Economic Report, which as mentioned above, was based on the
estimates of oil price increases considered reasonable in mid-1979, and prior
to the price increases which occurred around the time that Report was circula-
ted. A more detailed prognosis, as a supplement to the Special Economic
Report, is therefore proposed to be presented to the Board in a memorandum.
It is under preparation, and is expected to be issued shortly.
26.       Taking into account international inflation and the growing obliga-
tions for debt amortization, this situation necessitates a large and sharply
increasing gross annual average inflow of foreign capital, rising from the
current low levels to about $2.8 billion in current prices during the next
five years. Such major inflows of foreign capital can only be sustained on
the basis of prudent external debt management. In any case, debt service
obligations are likely to remain very high over the coming 5 years. In 1978,
total debt service payments had risen to 26.7 percent of exports of goods,
non-factor services and workers' remittances after making allowance for the
rescheduled service payments. In 1980, the ratio is projected to reach close
to 35 percent, and is likely to peak between 1982 and 1985 at a high level of
nearly 45 percent, before declining. This, however, should represent the
culmination of the financial consequences of the present crisis and the debt
burden should remain manageable, provided the export drive is sustained.
PART II - NEW ECONOMIC POLICIES AND CHANGES
January 1980 Economic Program and Policy Objectives
27.       Despite the several difficult stabilization measures adopted since
1978 and those reflected in the July 1979 Standby Arrangements, the economic
crisis persisted throughout 1979. As also explained in Part I, the additional
burden imposed on Turkey's extremely tight balance of payments by the recent
oil price increases, will render its early emergence from this crisis more
difficult, and will thereafter result in a rather modest average rate of
growth, than might otherwise have been possible.
28.       Following elections in October 1979 and the ensuing resignation of
the Ecevit cabinet, Mr. Demirel formed a new government, which obtained a vote
of confidence only in late November 1979. Bold and far-reaching measures to
reverse the economic situation were announced on January 24, 1980, transcending
those which are normally found in programs for stabilizing economies of countries



-9-
in crisis. They are summarized in Annex III. The announced economic policy
objectives which underlie these measures represent a major turnabout in
Turkish economic policies, as well as a basic departure from the past planning
objectives. In pursuance of these new objectives, Turkey has undertaken,
through this program, essential first steps to initiate major structural
changes in the key areas which are summarized in para 6 with a view to foster-
ing medium-term economic development on a stable basis.
29.       Recognizing the scope and ambit of this program, the IMF Board of
Executive Directors approved on February 21-, a modification of the terms of
the July 1979 Standby Arrangements. As a result, the release of balance of
SDR 180 million then committed, was modified as follows: SDR 100 million
has been provided by IMF on approval of the modification; followed by SDR 40
million by end March 1980 and SDR 40 million by end June 1980. In addition,
compensatory financing of about SDR 70 million has been provided with the
modification of the Standby. Together, this results in the provision of $224
million (SDR 170 million) now with $53 million (SDR 40 million) to be provided
in March 1980 and again in June 1980. In addition, Germany is taking the lead
in organizing, through the OECD, the provision in the near future of sizeable
external assistance, as well as a further debt relief operation. The success
of the January 1980 measures are clearly dependent not on Turkey's own further
efforts alone, but the willingness of the international economic and financial
community to provide adequate and timely assistance in the period immediately
ahead. The alternative for Turkey, would be to cut back on imports, already
pared to the bone; this, in turn, would postpone the possibility of economic
recovery even further, jeopardize its efforts to curb inflation, and hamper
the success of the bold structural changes it has initiated.
30.       The new economic policy objectives underlying the Government's
stated goal of "bringing about a major reorientation of the economy," can
be summed up as follows:
(a) Greater reliance on market mechanisms and forces by both the public
and private sectors, and lesser reliance than hitherto on planning
up to micro-levels and on administrative fiats to realize planned
targets and objectives.
(b) Reduction in the rate of inflation and improved management of balance
of payments as well as of external debts, have the highest priority;
in the process, Turkey may have to accept temporarily a lower GNP
growth.
(c) Import substitution and protection oriented policies, on which
Turkish development policy hitherto relied and which resulted in a
bias favoring production for the domestic markets, must give way to
policies encouraging the public and private sectors to be efficient
and internationally competitive.
(d) In future, reliance must be placed on exports and foreign currency
earning activities to finance Turkey's economic needs; the implemen-
tation of rational exchange rate policies and of measures encouraging
exports, are essential to achieve this objective.



- 10 -
(e) The SEE sector must be reformed, by exposing it to market forces, by
allowing it to set its own prices and by improving its management;
through such actions, it must generate its own resources to cover
operating costs and investment expenditures.
(f)  Domestic resource mobilization efforts, unlike the  ^    must
be substantially augmented through increased tax efforts, the
banking system, increased savings and the development of financial
markets; the elimination of deficits of the public sector is an
important objective of budgets from 1980 onwards.
(g) Investments aiming at more intensive and fuller utilization
of existing productive capacity and completion of those
ongoing projects requiring modest inputs, should have first
priority; thereafter, the priority should be for new invest-
ments stressing exports and employment or those removing
critical infrastructural bottlenecks; in any event, invest-
ments should be tailored to scarce resources.
(h) conditions to stimulate foreign investments in oil, industry
and agriculture must be created, in contrast to the past when
such investments were not encouraged; prudent external debt
management policies to create confidence in and flow of large
external resources to Turkey, should be followed.
31.       These are radical departures from past Turkish economic policy and
philosophy. Thus, the considerable effort which will be required--from now to
the medium-term--to implement the new policy and complete the structural and
institutional changes which the Government has initiated, should not be under-
estimated. The key policy areas are: (a) a rational exchange rate policy;
(b) policies ensuring increased export earnings and encouraging foreign
investments; (c) reform of the SEE sector, and the use of market forces to
improve its efficiency and output as well as that of the private sector; (d)
policies to improve domestic resource mobilization; and (e) formulation and
pursuit of rational external debt management and investment policies.
32.       The new policy objectives, as well as the areas and directions of
structural adjustments initiated, are explained in a letter dated February 7,
1980 to Mr. McNamara from the Undersecretary of the Prime Ministry and Acting
Undersecretary of the State Planning Organization (Annex IV).1/ The actions
taken by Turkey since 1978 in the areas requiring structural changes, includ-
ing measures in the January 1980 program, and those planned for implementation
in the medium-term, are summarized in the Table below and discussed in the
succeeding paragraphs.  Progress in implementing them so as to foster eco-
nomic recovery in the medium-term, will be the focus of two reviews, which
are to take place by July 31, 1980 and December 31, 1980, prior to making
loan disbursements beyond $100 million and $150 million respectively (Loan
Agreement, Preambles A and B, Section 3.08 and Schedule 5).
1/   The attachments to this letter are available in the Project File.



- II -
TURKEY: Key Elements f Turkey's Ongoing and ,edi-n-Tern Recovery Efforts
IPolicies cad  eae
Bale Insees                         1978/79 Treads                                     Mesuerecuep to J, .ary 1980                                            f,the,Iot-r                                                     Epecend Inp-ct
A.  Balance of Payments         E-reent ae/  deficit was 53.6 b. in '77,                Adeiistratioe neasures to preoen  increasic i
51.8 b. is '78 and '79.                                deficit bepynd '78 Ieeel.
a.  Eachange Rate Policy        Onernaloatine  and insdequate adjost-ntes               Adaptiws in Acne '79 of a reali_tfe exchancn  rate          're_ceet and almont auiomaiic adjus-tnnt by the               Bcrecnthen cblanee of payments,; eneow-ae enpornt
esenaouged impeets and capital inoeoeine              tc  hlep alleniste situation, wan foiloeed cp in              C-toral Bank, in co-saltcti-o  wich a new  aya-p arid workers' remittcnces;  stieulate leas capftal
is-esteents; discoucaged eaparts.                       ian. '80 by a farther drastic devalsntion fiiing           and Backing Ctordisation Conmittee, of the                   ifoensio'   Iooesioeots.
s rnte of YETL    - S1, e_cept fIc  fertiliIec and          Ici sage rati  to corer the diff-erctial  nfla
if.ectfcide imports.                                        is Treigy and of hke coin trading partners.
b.  Experts                     Agricultaa  aspects still dnminato;  esport             Melac.res -atko in '78/79 bhosted exporat by 15  pa   [ Steps to ffrther minimiee  o port procedarns,                     ECi.ifoinu  enport growth  by at l        t 10 o ree t-1 --
erientatisn is gradually increasing in the             in real terosll '78 and '79.  Realiscti  e-chanpgn          reniet by Oct. '      I0, of the efficacy of tire flLIerf     betaeen '00 asd '03.  Artio     hea- d         iootrh  Lc  r
industrial sece_r.  Howevac, cuehereone sxport         rate shouid help naiftoin growth treod.  ferninelon    arrongccnenu Bar export riok isurancc. and priority                increase of non-tradftfonal  eports, inpeono  apacity
restrictions and licensing procedures and mcore        t  exportnrs te rectin 50% no  exgoet earnings for    Lacens to ecedits no  expactors,  n cell as of                      utilization, arid fncreaser nrrployrest.
luceative domestie eachet discr-sraged e-portc.        le       . porn seeds hlelped sticulateexports.   Otoic     irinoinstitional  arragomnens te farther dnvelop
Nay '79 and Jon. 'IT have reduced groedorl delays  i troditieonl and non-traditionel ecxprts.  Bncoctives
OrasLica'ly; interim rrronoonentosno liched               I      and prtority for e-port oriented investments  n
_o rroldc export rink insorance coeerag,e                   prioae sertor.  Study of peotectinn to he initiated
a    i an tern And worbiog capical credits tol              in April '80.
c.  Extereal Debt               Substantial annumolatfan of slrert-ternindebt-    Gfaront-ed bilateral debts rescheduled  up to Jcne    I larcher ceerbedaling en exteeded erns of goarasteod                     BraduaB restoration of creditworthiness, to 'aicitir.
ednese  imposes and inordinstely h-eay bhrden,          '791  lIP Standby  Arrangenent in JAly '79; cnn-            k bilatecal debt, containment of short-term debts oer    viabic growtk and economi  etahflity.
in the m-dRas-tern, on halance  of papments;           neecial hash debts of 5429 m. reschedued and                e medium-erm to no norm  than  crenc level op about
short-tern debt -wnt sp an  P 78 by another $2 b.    f hrterrosedeiing of $2.D6 b. negotiated.                   J S2.B b., s ecorinp  of new credots on as concessional
hecacse Turkey Icrre..d net shert-term, and            Jam. '8G eeoiraiirlc pacha  iclided reasonable            j terms cs pocslhle, soId c-dnletto  by Oct. 'il of on
cafoaPien adjustment ct old debt, due cc $             alterirotifo   proposals tc settle abeot 51.9 b. of        I 00goi0g stiCy to farther irpr--e arrd rehlrle hliO
suipping Agaiost Earo-ncrroncios.                      onguaranot-d c-port credits.                                 - enteroal dobt policy.
B. Uiesatic Policies
a.  Inflatien                   i/cs enecraged consumption, discouragcd sasinga        gfgart to  control pubklic center rinfcinits and          i Wcc the objective of reducing the race of growth              Gradual redotlct  io rate of grnwth of inflstion  ho
sad eroded potantiai keoef its frcn Governmcnt's    ncrelorl Bank borrowinga in '178/79.  Upwerd                 I of tirfilationell 'br:  litoitnetnew Eerrtcol bern             ' 80.  Slidht declcoe in prfcate toes uopLcon aed some
sickilieaiion polieies.  Budget deficit of             adjustmect of inLterent co too to Play '79, Bollowed    croclits cc publiecosectoc to TL94n b. hol FY79/80.               c,cl lee ilrr ;rrlotr fixed investnonts.
lL61 h. 1.77     t SIP) asd overall public sector      up Os Jan. '0  wi  farther  2 percentage paint            Iontioue policy cf limiticg cage iwcreases.  Roinw hf
deficit of 14019 b. lg.81, liP) is 'P8.  Net           irlre noses in all canes, and liberalizaticn of rte         'turkey'n nompOcced P'incocia 1lScct  Study by be h;
poblic neetrrr borrowing frcm Central Bach             interstnat'ae region tbroug,h allowing borrowers           i hy elf '80, rnoiewoneaslrrrrs trr enccua'',       dll
TL63 b. in ' 78.                                       ars  banks no airee on races for deposits beyond           |tincreanes in hoosehiold saviogs cod deponits cc part
O yearn end lending bpeynd 5 pears.                         of cetion.  Reto inproec ofeax   noktiiatoagnt tao
f  finanicin  of public sotr, to he an important
g eatere of 1980 and futare badgets.
b.  Priae Policiea of SieE      Domeenaie re=ourcneemoilieation and itulA               Bystemsatic increases in priees daring '78/ 79,             fontinue peliey ef clcoraccole  bOEs toceiprove              Sirevit/res poblic seetec finances.  Imprnovecseorce
defbeits hace fncrensef.  beficit of lEEs N.lt/.        Pci/oloed rip in Ace. '00 by increases of betneen           productivity and  ianaenet-  and gnerate their               alloc ti
GSP in '78.  Underpricing of infirisl goods             50 to 300'/i in predacto snd servicea ci OEis, Er'        I resources to cover their intiet prgmooc.
prdodced or discrihoterl by SEE_, i:ag res,lc,d        net TL350 b. in '80; chic nhculd  oidp ollcvlatr           IX
is schotenclul lossees, met through the budget         sicuation.  Omoorcanolc. except foe coallliinit_,
and Censteal Bealk kcrrowings.  glas sggravated        railway andshipping freighto and power tariffs
inf lacfc,r cod c/re tccnoie c cisis.                  foe oaluinum and feerockceeme profnttlon,  bOsi o:re
ncc eliowed to fOe i/redo cec prices relpenidieig ccb
market priece. fhS.rni,  prices and improved    .
efficienty, c/rep are to --cer all costs aod
generate cooi l rerricenvsmntsn, since their
reilcoce cc thle hdget end Cestral Bask borrolnos I
Per both porpones, has boen stopped.                      l
c.  Public Beccor Invest_-      A disnvennent program, exce_sivn io thle light          Coycawst prioritp aceorded to comyleLiont Pf tergcirro      iestra ic: ten nea inceutmecns in lEght of oo.ailhlo          Sizeaoble coduetion Onl pubiic fised innotTsceetLs.
nest Program              of availsblecreseurcesa, and emphasis on iarge          projects nb/cfl tan g/ore grcnd recarnz ewith ncdeoc        renerrrceIc All icvencnentn  to be mo'/eActcor-dice to        0t1r,iaiate tasiec dinhurncewnrris 00 priority project
prajecos wink long gestation period and mariinai   ince_tment_, _od thcse  kstear oanue ensi_ting                   serfict crfnrfacmcntioned under "fleanoten up to             loans.  Pocitivecoffe ct cn containing iloflatlo
renurns, has increaued country's debt bolrden          prondocioc c_patity Sully.  New icnvs tmcnts,                Aatu:ry  '981rr cnlomn.  Should resourecs folc sbort         Promoction of publfc sector eeots
and fuclled inflntion.                                  tsilored io available re_ecrcn_,  no be node n.oaty         il any year no tltese estimated in the re/levant Ancalc
on priority projects for reeovini   iolrenteuetctnl         Ocoican, they would be chosc_ll_d cc pcejectn kanioc
boLt'leecks, oh  proruting exports and employment.          irtgrest griority aceerdirig  to chat teri-ca,  ithe lOst
of whbich ic to be yprovided nrrrilp toh Back.



- 12 -
Export Promotion
33.       In the policy announcements accompanying the January 1980 Program,
the implementation of a realistic exchange rate policy, together with relevant
policy and administrative measures, to rapidly increase foreign exchange
earnings through exports, is referred to as "the fulcrum of Irkey's develop-
ment strategy". While the importance of exports has been clearly recognized
in Turkey since 1978, the above constitutes an important departure from the
premises on which the previous Plans were based. Previously, export was
generally regarded as an activity disposing of a "surplus" after domestic
needs had been met. The important change now made is, that not only would the
exchange rate now be periodically adjusted to reflect the differential between
domestic inflation and that in Turkey's main trading partners, but that the
cross rate adjustments would be made automatically and those to reflect the
inflation differential would be made almost automatically by the Central
Bank after consulting the new Money and Credit Committee established under the
January 1980 package to bring about an effective coordination within Turkey,
on all monetary and fiscal matters. This important change in direction, has
been reiterated by Turkey to the IMF and is therefore an area one can expect
the IMF to review during the course of its Standby Arrangement, as modified in
February 1980, and in future.
34.       Turkey's success in exports, will also depend on the effectiveness
of complementary export policy and administrative measures. Particularly
those that: relate to export incentives, provide exporters with priority
access to credits and imported inputs for exports, reduce quota and tariff
restrictions and remove administrative hindrances to export. Under the
January 1980 program, exporters of manufacturing and mining products continue
to qualify for special incentives, including tax rebates and retention of 50
percent of their foreign exchange earnings for their imported inputs. Imports
of inputs made under this retention scheme, are now also exempt from customs
duties. The import licensing categories have also been redefined, to eliminate
some quotas and put a few items on the liberalized imports list. An important
feature of the change in the payments system, is the shift of a number of
payment transactions previously handled by the Central Bank, to authorized
commercial banks. Previously, such banks could retain an average of 37.5
percent of their foreign exchange receipts, transferring the balance to the
Central Bank. From January 25, 1980, the amount they can retain has been
raised to 80 percent. More importantly, they are now authorized to effect
payments for imports financed through acceptance credits and export retention
quotas, which previously required approval of the Central Bank.
35.       A Price Stabilization Fund has been created, from which exporters
would be provided with export risk coverage, as well as priority access to
term and working capital credits. This interim arrangement, will be reviewed
by the end of October 31, 1980; should this review suggest that different, or
more permanent, arrangements are necessary, the Government has undertaken to
take appropriate action.  By that time, it  also plans to complete its review
of other institutional arrangements which may still be necessary to promote
the further development of Turkey's traditional and non-traditional export
products and commodities (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 1 (a) and (b)).



36.       Despite these changes, under the present system of licensing,
imports are, in many cases, still subject to quotas determined by administra-
tive decisions, without due regard to prices or sufficient attention to their
impact on the output of finished products. It might therefore be advantageous
for Turkey to move gradually to a more automatic tariff-based protective system,
so that imp'--ters might themselves determine their import needs in the light
of market conditions. While a major reform of the established industrial
protection and incentive system based on quotas would be impracticable in the
short-term, particularly because of the tight balance of payments situation,
industrial efficiency would benefit from a gradual movement over a longer-term
period, towards a more rational and selective system of protection and incen-
tives based on tariffs. As a step towards such a longer-term adjustment, Turkey
will take steps to commence by the end of April 1980, a comprehensive study
for the purpose of introducing a more rational tariff-based protection and
incentive system (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 1(c)). It is expected
that this study would include: (i) review of the existing commodity specific
quotas and import restrictions, to determine the level and variability of
protection provided; (ii) determination of the appropriate general level of
incentives based on tariffs, which should be provided for appropriate export
industries, import substitution industries and producers of agricultural
inputs; (iii) based thereon, the designing of detailed recommendations,
together with necessary complementary programs such as export compensation,
financing, insurance and incentives; (iv) ascertaining of the likely impact
of such proposals on import levels, industrial sub-groups and major individual
firms; and (v) taking all these factors into account, the development of
recommendations for the phasing-in of the new protection regime, including
proposals for adjustments in the transitional period to ensure minimum adverse
impact on industrial efficiency or distortions in the economy. The Government
has indicated in its abovementioned February 7, 1980 letter, that it hopes to
complete the study in about one year after its commencement, introduce the
transitional system shortly after completion of the study, and gradually
phase-in the new protection system by the end of 1984.
37.       The appropriate mix of policy and institutional instruments to
achieve the target of export growth rate averaging about 10 percent per annum
in real terms between 1980 and 1983, cannot be specified in advance. It will
involve sustained efforts. The Government has confirmed in the February 7,
1980 letter, that it would seek the achievement of a real exports growth of
this magnitude by continuing to foster the structural change it has initiated
of maintaining a viable exchange rate regime, and through an appropriate set
of export promotion policies and administrative measures. Such measures are
expected to include, but not be limited to, those discussed in preceding
paragraphs. Should export growth exceed 10 percent in any year, there may not
be a need for a detailed review of specific policy actions; if it does not,
the Bank would expect to discuss adequate corrective actions during the policy
reviews planned under the loan (Loan Agreement Schedule 5, para. 1).



- 14-
External Debt Management
38.       A prudent external debt management policy is crucial to maintain
Turkey's debt service ratio at a reasonable level up to the mid-1980's, and to
support the resumption of major capital inflows from external sources to
sustain the recovery of the economy. The 1979 rescheduling of nearly $5.2
billion of short-term and medium-term debts, did not cover about $1.9 billion
of non-guaranteed export credits. However, the January 1980 program addresses
that issue.   It is hoped that the new Turkish proposals will find an encourag-
ing response from creditors, since that would help open the currently closed
access to supplier credits and similar trade financing.
39.       Even then, Turkey's external debt management policy has to grapple
with several difficult issues. First, the large overhang of debt, and the
relatively hard terms of the recent debt reschedulings, together raise a
question regarding the need for further rescheduling in the near-term.
A substantial improvement in the repayment profile of the rescheduled debts
and the containment of Turkey's short-term indebtedness over the medium-term
to no more than the present level of about $3.8 billion is necessary to
alleviate the heavy debt servicing burden over-the next 5 years; a critical
element here, is the likely posture of commercial creditors, which cannot be
easily anticipated. Second, it is important that Turkey obtains sizeable
external credits on as long-term and concessional a basis as possible, to
complete ongoing projects and undertake new ones in accordance with its stated
investment criteria (para. 45). Recognizing the importance of these issues
and the longer-term concerns regarding its creditworthiness that its creditors
have, Turkey has been focussing its attention on evolving a balanced and
prudent policy for external debt management. The Government has already
initiated a comprehensive study of external debt, which it expects to complete
well before October 31, 1980 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 2). This
study should help Turkey to further improve and refine its present external
debt management policy; that should also assist Turkey in exercising greater
control over the level and terms of new external financing it would seek from
various external sources over the next five years.
Domestic Resource Mobilization
40.       Insufficient domestic resource mobilization, concomitant with
an ambitious investment drive, was a significant factor contributing to
the economic crisis.  This has been a critical area where inadequate atten-
tion was being focussed until recently by Turkish governments. While Turkey
ranks fairly well as regards "tax effort", with tax revenues accounting
for over 20 percent of GDP in 1978 and expected to rise to nearly 25 percent
by 1983, the past growth of tax revenues was generally due to escalating
inflation, given the high progressivity of tax rates and the bias in coverage
to urban incomes, wages and salaries. A restructuring of the tax system is
therefore long overdue. Past governments hardly ever presented tax packages
to Parliament in recent years, nor has Parliament passed a tax package
in the last 8 years, e.g., a tax reform bill introduced in 1978, is still



- 15 -
unapproved. Against this background, the new Government's major policy
objective, announced as part of the January 1980 package, to seek parliamen-
tary actions in future, to augment domestic resource mobilization through
changes in the tax laws, marks an important change in economic policy.
41.       The Government recognizes that in addition to measure  to increase
the efficiency of tax administration and collection, what is needed is a
restructuring of the tax system. Furthermore, considerations of equity
argue for an increase in the level of exemptions to improve the level of
income distribution for the benefit of lower income groups. At the same
time, there is need for greater contribution to the tax efforts, from all
segments of the population, including the labor forces working in the agricul-
ture sector. There is also significant scope, which the Government's January
1980 policy announcements recognize, for increasing resource mobilization
through the introduction of indirect taxation and placing greater emphasis on
excise taxes and consumption taxes, like value added. Backed by this new
policy objective, the Government is taking steps to present a sizeable tax
package to the Parliament, as part of the January 1980 measures. Indeed, the
February 7, 1980 letter articulates as a specific goal, the elimination of the
overall deficit financing of the public sector, announced for FY 1980, will
continue to be an important objective of future budgets. Accomplishment of
this desirable new objective, will not be an easy task. This is an area which
the Bank will continue to discuss during the course of its periodic macro-
economic dialogue with Turkey as well as in the reviews to be made in the
context of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 3).
42.       The use of the interest rate policy as a flexible tool for mobiliz-
ing savings and allocating them effectively, is recognized in the January 1980
package. Given the high rate of inflation and the prospects of reducing it
gradually in the medium-term, Turkey recognizes the negative impact which
inflation can have on the fiscalization of savings and the efficiency of the
market mechanism for mobilizing and allocating resources. Over the past 18
months, a more flexible interest rate policy has been adopted. Increases in
household savings and time deposits followed increased rates in mid-1978 and
mid-1979, indicates that when financial facilities are provided to enable the
public to make high yield investments, they will respond. Nevertheless, for a
variety of reasons, it is unrealistic to expect positive real interest rates
on all financial contracts at the prevailing inflation rates. It is however
reassuring, that as part of its efforts to augment domestic resource mobiliza-
tion, the January 1980 package not only increased all interest rates by 2
percentage points, but laid a basis for liberalizing the interest rate regime.
Interest rates for time deposits of 4 years and more, as well as for loans
borrowed for a duration of 5 years or more are now to be freely negotiable.
In addition, the Government expects to complete, by July 30, 1980, a review of
measures, besides those already announced, to encourage increases in household
savings and time deposits. The Government has also invited the Bank to visit
Turkey in March 1980 to discuss the tentative findings of a draft Financial
Sector Study which Turkey completed some months ago, and which, amongst other
matters, reviews the important role played by the level and structure of
interest rates in the development process (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 3).



- 16 -
These discussions are expected to lead in due course to detailed proposals for
implementation of certain recommendations of the Study, as well as to further
analysis of those issues that merit it.
43.       Another critical, area for improved domestic resource mobilization
in future, is in the SEE sector. The operating deficits of SEEs imposed an
enormous strain on the government budget; their borrowings from the Central
Bank for their ambitious investment programs have been one of the basic causes
of inflation. Attempts since late 1977 to reduce these deficits by making
periodic sizeable price increases, were buttressed in 1979 by setting production
and export targets in the case of some SEEs. While these efforts went in the
right direction within the given economic framework, there was a need for a
drastic structural change in that framework.
44.       This change has been initiated through the policies and actions
taken with the January 1980 package, which are designed to make SEEs accept
the discipline of market forces. The list of basic commodities and services
whose prices were control-Led by the Government for social and other purposes,
has been abolished. In future, the Boards of the SEEs will fix prices. Only
the prices of coal and lignite, rail and ship freight and power for aluminium
and ferrochrome production, are to be subject to price controls. Henceforth,
by setting appropriate prices, the Boards of the SEEs are not only to cover
operating costs, but also generate cash for investment. Neither, in future,
will be financed from the budget nor will SEEs have access to Central Bank
borrowings for investment. Having lived in a controlled environment and often
having relatively inefficient managements, the SEEs may initially find the
reorientation difficult. Nevertheless, pursuit of this structural change by
the Government should exert pressure on the SEE managements to take measures
to improve efficiency and productivity. It should also help to ensure that
SEE investment programs are economically viable, and equally important, are
within the bounds of the resources they can internally generate or borrow from
the market. However, these objectives may not be attainable without fundamental
changes in the laws governing the SEE's designed to put most of them on a
sound economic basis.
Public Investment Program
45.       As discussed earlier, the overall size and quality of the public
investment programs until 1977, have contributed to the economic crisis.
Actions taken over the last several months provide some evidence that given
the severe domestic and foreign exchange constraints, public investment
expenditures are being channelled towards projects meeting strict investment
criteria. However, the January 1980 program and the policy announcements
accompanying it, go beyond that.  They emphasize that since control of
inflation is more important at present than the past Turkish strategy of
concentrating only on higher growth, the projected level of annual investments
must be rigorously tailored to meet the availability of scarce resources
each year. Investments in fiscal 1979 were lower in real terms than those
in fiscal 1978. The GovErnment proposes to continue that trend for fiscal
1980. Priority is to be accorded first to investments designed to utilize
existing productive capacity more fully and to complete ongoing projects which



- 17 -
can yield attractive returns with modest additional investments. Thereafter,
the priority for new investments is for productive projects either contributing
to exports or employment, or for those which remove critical infrastructural
bottlenecks. A new Incentives and Investment Department has been established,
whose purpose is to review which ongoing investments should be stopped,
deferred or comipleted on an accelerated basis.
46.       The Bank's concern from the medium-term perspective, is both on the
level and quality of the investment program. The Government also concurs that,
should available domestic and foreign exchange fall short of that estimated in
the Annual Investment Program for any year, the available resources would be
channeled towards those projects having the highest priority according to the
above criteria (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 4). Arrangements have been
made to obtain a list of major projects to which Turkey attaches the highest
priority based on these criteria, and which it would seek to implement instead
of other projects, in conditions of reduced resource availability.
PART III - THE CASE FOR THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Introduction
47.       As discussed in Part II, through its January 1980 economic program
and policy announcements that accompanied it, the Government has embarked on
a bold policy of "making a fundamental reorientation in the Turkish economy",
and initiated a series of structural changes in the key areas of economic
management. These are: adoption of a competitive exchange rate policy;
policies to increase foreign exchange earnings to meet economic needs, through
increasing exports, worker remittances and foreign investments in Turkey;
greater reliance on market forces and mechanisms, by both the public and pri-
vate sectors to achieve their goals; policies to augment domestic resource
mobilization substantially through the tax system and the liberalization of
the interest rate regime and by making the elimination of the deficit financing
of the public sector an important budgetary objective; poli-cies to enable the
SEE sector to become self-reliant, by improving its productivity and management
and by allowing it to set its own market prices sufficient to cover operating
costs and future investment needs; a policy to contain investments strictly
within available resources and undertake them in accordance with rigorous
criteria set by the government.
Performance Under the 1978 Program Loan
48.       A $150 million Program Loan (No. 1627-TU), approved by the Executive
Directors on November 7, 1978, was designed to help finance high priority
imports to assist fuller utilization of productive capacity in agriculture and
industry, as well as to meet the import needs of exporters. At the time it
was appraised, the Government had not yet finalized the Fourth Plan. However,
it communicated to the Bank, through a letter from the Finance Minister
(President's Report dated October 19, 1978, Annex I-A), that the cornerstone
of Turkey's medium-term development strategy would be a vigorous export drive.



- 18 -
It also summarized export goals (an average of 15 percent p.a. growth in real
terms over the medium term, with agricultural and industrial exports growing
at 5 percent and 30 percent respectively), as well as exchange rate and export
promotion policies and complementary administrative measures by which it hoped
to achieve them. The major objectives and targets reflected in that letter
and the Turkish performance thereon, are summarized in the following Table:
1978 Program Loan
Targets                                                                         Performance
1.  Growth of Exports                                                             1978 - 1979
15% p.a. growth in real terms, between 1978-83.                              Compared to '77, real growth was over 25% in '78; however
due to a decline in real exports by 5'. in '79 over '78, partly
because of "holding back" in the last quarter of '79 in
anticipation of a major devaluation, real growth over
'78 and '79 averaged about 9% p.a.
2. Policy Measures
i.  Exchange Rate:  Adjustment appropriate in relation to                  (A)  Devaluation in April'79, June'79 and Jan.'80, adjusted
differential inflation in Turkey and her trading                            rate from Th2S to TL70.
partners (Rate TL25 = US$1).
ii.  Protection via tariffs and quantitative restrictions                   (B)  Jan. '80 - stamp duty reduced from  25% to 1%; several
to be kept to reasonable levels.                                            commodities transferred to liberalized list.
iii.  Additional Financial Incentives to exporters consistent                (C)  Retention quotas of exporters of manufactures raised
with reasonable fiscal burden and with GATT obligations.                    from 25% to 50% and their use liberalized in Mar. '79.
iv.  Agriculture:  Transport investments; finance for export-               (D)  Substantial progress.
oriented projects.
3. Administrative Measures
i.  Simplification of procedures for exports, and imported                 Some progress over 1979 and again in Jan. '80.
inputs.
ii.  Export risk insurance scheme under study, to be put into               Study completed and interim arrangements introduced in
effect soonest possible.                                              Jan.'80.
iii.  Foreign trade development institution to be set up.                    Proposal still under consideration.
iv.  SEES to become more active in increasing exports.                      Export targets set for 1979 but achievements unknown.
v.  Diversification of export commodities and destinations,                Some progress.
especially to Middle East.
vi.  Long-term trade agreements.                                            Significant progress, especially with East Europe.
vii. Special facilities and incentives for export-oriented
investments:
(a)  Domestic Investments:                                            Maximum investment incentives provided in 1979;
January'80: New Department of Incentives and Implementation
in Prime Ministry, to streamline/coordinate investment/
export incentives to serve economic priorities; priority
access to domestic credit; May'79: Substantial interest
rate rebates introduced; Bank's TSKB XIII loan for
export industries.
(b)  Foreign Investments                                              Jan. '80: Major liberalization of eligible sectors,
conditions, repatriation of profits and proceeds of
equity sale; new Department of Foreign Capital in Prime
Ministry, to automatically approve investments upto
$50m. and review larger cases.
viii.  Changes in support prices of export agricultural commo-                Support prices for wheat, seed cotton, hazelnuts and figs were
dities to bring them in line with world prices.                       adjusted upwards, and, with exccange rate changes, are now belcv
world prices, Price changes for rice and vegetable oils made
to encourage reduced limports,
ix,  Investments in agricultural storage and transport.                     $200m. investments undertaken through FY79 Grain Storage
Project.
4. Government organization
i,  Export Coordination Committee                                           Set up, but ineffectiye,  Tn Janugry 1980, geW Department
for Export Promotion set up in Prime Ministry.
ii.  High Planning Council to review export progress and                     Periodic recommendations made to Government, resulting in
policies.                                                              above actions.



- 19 -
49.       The technical targets of this Loan have also been achieved, and in
some respects, they have been exceeded. Although disbursements commenced
in February 1979, later than anticipated, disbursements by the end of FY79
exceeded appraisal estimates. As of February 15, 1980, it was almost fully
disbursed. Direct and indirect allocations to the private sector totalled
$87 million, thus exceeding the $50 million target; similarly, allocations
to exporters under the "imports for exports scheme" financed under the loan,
exceeded targets. In contrast to this creditable performance, SPO's quarterly
reports to Turkey's Higher Planning Council to enable it to make policy deci-
sions on improved export performance, and which were to be submitted regularly
to the Bank, were not received. The main reason apparently was that the
Council did not meet regularly, but instead responded to developments as they
occurred, and the concerned ministries then took actions. Therefore, the
Government instead communicated information on relevant matters to Bank staff
from time to time, and in particular to the supervision mission in April 1979,
and the Special Economic Mission in April/May 1979.
Macroeconomic Considerations Underlying the Proposed Loan
50.       Turkey continues to suffer from an acute shortage of foreign ex-
change. A return to stable growth will inevitably take time. Even with
optimal economic policies, there are physical limits to the speed with which
exports (particularly industrial) can expand in the short-term, given the slow
growth prospects and increasing protectionism in the developed countries which
are Turkey's traditional export markets. Thus, to maintain essential recurrent
imports, Turkey must continue borrow externally. The position, based on
provisional estimates for 1979, and that projected for 1980 and 1981, is
summarized in the Table below:.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS AND SOURCES OF FINANCE (1979-81)
($ millions)
1979     1980      1981
(Estimated)   ----Projections---
Foreign Exchange Requirements             7360      9410     10810
Imports of goods and NFS/I              5500       7000      7950
Of which: Oil                          2500      3200      3550
Interest                                 900       1200      1300
Amortization                             550        900      1200
Changes in reserves and short-term capital movements   383  250-  280
Others                                   -27        60        80
Foreign Exchange Receipts                 4900      6150      7150
Exports of goods and NFS                 3200      4050      4650
Of which: Goods                        2300      3100      3600
Workers' remittances                     1700      2100      2500
Capital Inflows                           2102      3260      3660
1. Identified Capital                     2102      1680      1000
a. Foreign Private Capital              200       200       240
b. Disbursements from Commitments as of end-1979:
Multilateral                       320        280       260
Bilateral                          700        950       400
Commercial                          390       250       100
c. Short-Term Funds                     492        -         -
2. Gap to be filled by multilateral, bilateral and  -  1580   2660
commercial sources./I
Errors and Omissions                       358        -         -
/1 A shortfall would imply a similar reduction in the level of imports.



- 20 -
51.       For 1980 and 1981, the current account deficit based on latest
projections of foreign trade, increased oil bill and worker remittances,
is estimated at about $2.1 billion and $2.2 billion respectively. Put in
another way, the foreign exchange requirements in each of these two years,
including for imports at the essential minimal level with the containment of
oil imports to volumes more or less reached in 1977, as well as the heavy
burden of interest payments and debt amortization, are $9.4 billion and
$10.8 billion in 1980 and 1981. Against that, based on cautiously optimistic
estimates of exports and worker remittance.s in light of the January 1980
adjustments in the parity value of the TL and the policy on exchange rate
changes then announced by Turkey, foreign exchange receipts in each of these
years is likely to be $6.2 billion and $7.2 billion respectively. Further,
given the disbursements estimated to take place against multilateral,
bilateral and commercial credits already in the pipeline as of end of 1979,
foreign private capital inflows, and inflows of short-term funds, the
balance of the capital required in 1980 is likely to be of the order of
$1.6 billion and that in 1981 of the order of $2.7 billion.
52.       A part of this gap will be met through customary sources of capital
assistance to be committed after end 1979, including in particular the proposed
loan. A significant portion of it is likely to be disbursed by the end of
1980. One would expect that the remaining gap can be met by disbursements
which could be expected against other new commitments likely to be made
following the forthcoming OECD meeting in the near-term future, and possibly
again in 1981. As noted above, the projections are based on minimal levels of
imports which Turkey must make based on reasonable assumptions about oil price
increases. Should new credits not materialize, in disbursement terms, at the
level or in time, necessary to cover the abovementioned gaps in 1980 and 1981,
this would inevitably by reflected in lower levels of imports in these years.
An immediate consequence of further import cuts would be an additional drop in
the already low level of capacity utilization and output. To that extent,
economic recovery would be further delayed and consequently, the country's
capacity to service debts would be further curtailed. It is not only essential
that adequate new funds be made available in time and on reasonable terms, but
the burden of the rescheduled debts, should be further alleviated through
additional rescheduling on more liberal terms. Otherwise it could jeopardise
the international arrangements organized to support a return to orderly
development and self-sustaining growth on a viable basis in the medium-term.
Sectoral Considerations Underlying the Proposed Loan
53.       The shortage of foreign exchange had only a limited impact on
the use of modern inputs in agriculture up to mid-1979, because of the exis-                 q
tence of previously imported stocks and the high priority given to imported
inputs for agriculture in the allocation of foreign exchange, including the
First Program Loan. However, as of early July, financing had been arranged
for only 21 percent of the planned imports of fertilizers needed for the fall
planting. Imports of ferti-Lizer, raw materials and finished products in
1978 were about 1.2 million nutrient tons, worth about $425 million in inter-
national prices. For 1979, the level is estimated to be about $550 million
and for 1980, $764 million (1.7 million nutrient tons).  For plant protection



- 21 -
chemicals, the cost of imports of inputs and finished materials was $67 mil-
lion in 1978, and is estimated to be $90 million in 1979 and $106 million in
1980. Reduction in the supply of fertilizers and plant protection products
could significantly affect total output and exports in the future; for each $1
reduction in imported raw material, an estimated $3 of wheat exports, or $6.8
of cotton export are jeopardized. Details are provided in Annex VI.
54.       Domestic production facilities for fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals have grown substantially since the early 1960s, and now account for
about half of national demand. But these facilities are heavily dependent on
imported inputs and are operating at low levels of capacity utilization.
In fertilizers, the main reason is the shortage of raw materials and spares,
although power shortages, mechanical breakdowns and personnel problems have
contributed. In plant protection, lack of foreign exchange is the principal
factor. Since the import cost of fertilizers would be about $520 per nutrient
ton in 1980 and the raw materials for producing each ton cost only about $350,
higher priority must attach to the import of fertilizer raw materials than to
the finished product. Based on reasonable estimates of available capacity,
about $230 million of fertilizer raw materials will be needed in 1980 to sup-
port domestic production. However, in the case of plant protection materials,
many needed products are not produced in Turkey; hence, financing is needed
for some finished products and inputs.
55.       Industrial production in 1978 and 1979, virtually stagnated, dropping
well below the 10 percent annual average growth rate of 1972-77. This was
reflected in the continued low level of capacity utilization, which the SPO
estimated at only 53 percent for 1978, compared with unofficial estimates of
83 percent for the normal 1976 year. No figures are yet available for 1979,
but the Government unofficially places it at a very low 40 to 45 percent. A
number of other factors also contributed to this slowdown: continuing power
shortages cut production in many industries; growing shortage of fuel oil;
delays in output from major new capacity in some industries; and technical
and management problems affecting a number of large plants, especially in
the public sector. But the major reason was the acute shortage of foreign
exchange for imported inputs for the major import-dependent industries.
Petroleum products, petrochemicals and metal industries were among those most
adversely affected. The output of engineering and metal fabricating industries
fell conspicuously, particularly in the private sector, as domestic supplies
of metals dwindled and imports cut. The downward trend was reversed only in
a relatively small number of firms who could export part of their output and
import their inputs under the 50 percent retention scheme, e.g. commercial
vehicles, some consumer durables, and ferro alloys. Details are provided in
Annex VI.
56.       The general climate for industrial exports, however, has significantly
improved, consequent to the several export promotion measures made in 1979 and
those included in the January 1980 program, besides of course the exchange
rate adjustments then made. The biggest contribution to exports is expected
from the consumer goods sector; however, it faces market constraints and
problems of organization and quality. Increases are also expected in inter-
mediate and capital goods, especially chemicals, petroleum products, iron/steel,
and machinery.



- 22 -
PART IV - THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
57.       Loan History.  The proposed Loan responds to Turkey's request in May
1979, for further program assistance. The loan is viewed by Turkey as an
important supporting element for its program to accomplish over the medium
term, the structural and institutional changes initiated through the January
80 economic package, as well as for its immediate economic recovery program.
The Government's loan proposal and supporting analyses were appraised in July
1979. Negotiations were held in Washington on February 14-15, 1980, with a
delegation headed by the Acting Economic and Financial Counselor in the
Turkish Embassy.
58.       Loan Amount and Allocation.  The proposed loan of $200 million will
finance only about 3 percent of Turkey's total merchandise imports in 1980,
and around 20 percent of the imports of eligible items. There will thus be no
displacement of alternative financing on acceptable terms available to Turkey,
either generally or for the eligible commodities. The Loan Summary provides
relevant details.
59.       The choice of commodities to be financed and proposed allocations
are based on an appraisal of current needs in the context of the experience
during 1978-79. These will have high direct and indirect impact on utilization
of capacities in user sectors and multiplier effects; direct and indirect
export impact; and balance between public and private sector beneficiaries.
In the light of the serious balance of payments situation, high priority is
being given to commodities whose imports have significant direct or indirect
export impact. In view of the restricted and varied nature of the imported
inputs for exportable goods, there is a limit to the amounts which can be
specifically included in the loan for the direct inputs going into goods
enhancing export earnings. Many commodities proposed for financing are
essential inputs, direct and indirect, for most of Turkey's agricultural and
industrial items.
60.       The proposed allocations reflect the Government's proposal that the
loan proceeds be allocated to two main categories: (a) essential inputs for
the agricultural sector, i.e. inputs for fertilizers and pesticide industries
and formulated pesticides ($100 million); (b) inputs for industries which
support a large number of other manufacturing industries i.e. steel, special
steel, engineering, copper, aluminium, petrochemical and other chemical
industries ($100 million).  Unlike the 1978 Program Loan, spare parts are not
being financed in view of Turkey's undertaking that it would provide out of
its resources, at least $30 million for spare parts for the same categories of
eligible industries (Loan Agreement Section 3.04). In effect therefore, the
total allocation of foreign exchange resources for the eligible items, would
be at least $230 million. In addition, resources for the needs of exporters
would be made available under the 50 percent automatic retention scheme which
is being continued, along with other measures providing export incentives,
under the Government's Januarv 1980 Program.



- 23 -
61.       The proposed loan allocations take into account projections of
domestic production, stocks, the import pipeline and also other possible
external financing for the substantial import requirements of eligible
industries. It must however be recognized that the loan will not lead to
full utilization of installed capacities in most cases, because of other
continuing-bottlenecks, mentioned in paras 54 and 55, which can only be
gradually rectified. However, the exchange rate and export measures discussed
in Parts I and II, provide sufficient mechanisms for expanding exports in the
longer run, to complement the impact of the loan funds.
62.       Licensing.  Turkey has a comprehensive system of import licensing,
administered by the Ministry of Commerce with advice from the Chambers of
Commerce and Industry (to which all firms belong), and substantive approval
of a large proportion of import applications by other concerned ministries.
Distinctive features of the system are that a significant proportion of
imports is free from restrictions in normal times, where Turkish production
cannot meet the demand; and positive lists ensure that only essential items
are imported. The stages of the import licensing process are relatively
numerous, but well understood in Turkey. Under normal conditions, the time
required for typical transactions is not excessive, except under the Quota
List with its semi-annual cycle. The extremely tight foreign exchange situa-
tion in recent years, led to effective import control being exercised by the
Central Bank and Finance Ministry. In 1979, as explained in Parts I and II,
it was liberalized to allow commercial banks to use about 37.5 percent of
their foreign exchange receipts to cover approved imports, and in January 1980,
this percentage was increased to 80 percent and the items on the liberalized
list increased. Details are provided in Annex VII.
63.       Loan Administration Arrangements.  The Finance Ministry and the
Central Bank will have the main responsibility for administering the proposed
loan, under the arrangements which have proved satisfactory under the 1978
Program Loan. Applications for import licenses will receive substantive
approval from the appropriate technical ministry, taking into account: (a)
the extent Turkish production cannot meet domestic demand, and (b) the equit-
able allocation of import licenses amongst both public and private firms
taking into account installed capacity, recent performance, and export poten-
tial. To ensure rapid loan disbursements, the Government has also agreed that
it will arrange for agencies to promptly approve import licenses, as well as
promptly allocate and transfer the needed foreign exchange (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03).
64.       The Central Bank's Consortium Section, which handled disbursements
under the 1978 Program Loan, will continue to do so under the proposed loan.
The Finance Ministry will continue to monitor progress, identify problems and
expedite. To speed procurement, short-term bridge financing arrangements with
three foreign commercial banks have been arranged to cover the period between
payments and reimbursement from the proposed loan. However, to simplify
disbursement procedures, a minimum withdrawal limit of $25,000 ($5,000 under
the 1978 Program Loan) has been set. The loan is expected to be disbursed
within about one year of the effectiveness date.



- 24 -
65.       Public-Private Sector Balance.  Most eligible imported inputs are
currently used by both public and private sector firms. Goods produced with
these inputs are sold to firms in both sectors. The Chambers of Commerce and
Industry, to which all private firms belong, provide substantive advice on
allocation to the import licensing authorities, and generally apply equitable
criteria in allocation. Nevertheless, assurances have been obtained that
equitable licensing as between public and private sector firms would be
maintained (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). Agreement has also been reached
that not less than $75 million of the $230 million provided through the
loan and in complementary Government funds, will be allocated, directly or
indirectly, to meet the import requirements of private firms (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05). This will not distort normal patterns of imports.
66.       Counterpart Funds.  Counterpart funds will be deposited in the
special account created last year for the 1978 Program Loan. As under that
loan, the Government expects to use the counterpart funds to help finance the
local currency portion of capital expenditures on its most important develop-
ment project, the Elbistan Power Project (TU-1023).
67.       Procurement.  Imports will be made directly by actual users, except
in those cases where import by certain SEE's for sale to both private and
public sector enterprises, is prescribed by law. Bulk imports costing $5
million or more, will be procured on the basis of ICB procedures consistent
with Bank guidelines. All contracts of lesser value, will be awarded under
the normal procurement procedures of the public and private sector firms
concerned. The procurement procedures of public sector firms already provide
for substantial international bidding, which is satisfactory. Certain com-
modities will be purchased through their organized international markets,
which is acceptable. Private firms have adequate choice of international
suppliers to ensure reasonable availability and price. About half of the
loan is expected to be procured under ICB. These procedures should permit
rapid disbursements.
68.       Disbursement Tranches and Monitoring.  The loan will be disbursed in
3 tranches: $100 million after the loan is declared effective, $50 million
after a satisfactory first performance review takes place before July 31, 1980,
and the final $50 million after a second performance review before December 31,
1980. Retroactive financing of up to $10 million for expenditures made after
February 1, 1980 has been p'rovided to ensure a smooth supply of the critical
items being financed. The Government would submit to the Bank, two weeks
before the agreed date of each review, a report on the progress made on the
structural changes initiated through its January 1980 program as well as on
medium term macro economic policies and measures proposed to facilitate
economic recovery. These will be monitored in the context of the targets and
policy objectives explained in the February 7, 1980 letter to the Bank, to
determine the direction and adequacy of the progress made. Review missions
would, with the support and assistance of the Central Bank, the Finance
Ministry and SPO, evaluate l:heir adequacy.



- 25 -
69.       Disbursements beyond $100 and $150 million will be contingent upon
progress achieved on the following specific items: (a) the adequacy of
policies to facilitate real export growth at 10 percent p.a.; (b) a review by
October 31, 1980 of the efficiency of export credit and risk insurance facili-
ties and of *nstitutional arrangements to promote exports; (c) initiation by
April 30, 1980 of a study for the rationalization of industrial protection
systems; (d) completion by October 31, 1980 of an ongoing study on external
debt management; (e) the adequacy of measures to increase domestic resource
mobilization including the elimination of the overall deficit financing for
the public sector in 1980; (f) the completion of a review by July 31, 1980 of
measures to increase household savings and time deposits; (g) review and
further study of matters covered by the Government's financial sector study;
and (h) the harmonization of public investments to available resources and the
Government's investment criteria of completing ongoing high priority projects,
using existing capacity, removing critical bottlenecks, and stressing exports
and employment generation. (Loan Agreement, Preamble B, Section 3.08,
Schedule 5.)
70.       Risks.  There are no special risks.  The administrative arrangements
in respect of import licensing, foreign exchange allocations, transfers, docu-
mentation and disbursements made for the 1978 Program Loan have functioned
satisfactorily, and will be maintained. Procurement procedures are in line
with Bank policy, and have been simplified to reduce excessive paperwork.
With these provisions, the risks of slow disbursements have been reduced to a
minimal level. The loan will be disbursed in tranches, ensuring release of
the second and third tranches being subject to satisfactory review of progress
on major macroeconomic issues. There is, however, the overall risk that
political developments in Turkey might impede the Government's efforts to
carry out its new economic policy objectives and the structural and institu-
tional changes in key areas initiated through the January 1980 program, which
would affect the release of the tranches.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
71.       A large lending program for Turkey, essentially began following
the introduction of its 1970 Stabilization Program. To date, the Bank/IDA
have lent $2,120 million through 58 projects. Agriculture accounts for 30
percent of funds lent, industry and DFCs for 34 percent, power for 14 percent
and urban development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest.
Annex V contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of December 31, 1979, with notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
72.       Since mid-1975, the implementation of private sector projects has
been satisfactory. Political uncertainty, limited coordination amongst
ministries and staffing problems resulted in uneven and delayed project
implementation in the public sector. Therefore, a system of joint project
reviews between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. This resulted



- 26 -
in distinct, but modest, improvements up to end 1977. The situation was
therefore reviewed with the Government in March 1978, and further discussed
during my visit in April 1978. Subsequently, Turkey established a new high-
level coordination team. This team set up procedures for monitoring and
achieving realistic implementation and disbursement targets. As of December
disbursements increased to 69 percent of appraisal estimates against 51
percent in June 1975. The last joint review was held in April 1979. The
encouraging progress that is now manifest, allows cautious optimism that
performance will gradually improve further, permitting an expansion of lending.
73.        Bank lending is now aimed at supporting Turkey's efforts to improve
its: (a) capacity to earn foreign exchange, through promotion of industrial
and agro-industrial exports; (b) income distribution, employment opportunities
and living standards, through rural and urban development; (c) lagging public
sector savings, through the encouragement of improved management and financing
of the investments of key SEEs; and (d) infrastructure posing critical
bottlenecks for development. The Bank has begun discussions with the new
government on how its lending can best contribute to the government's medium-
term objectives, especially export promotion, without being handicapped by
past policy and institutional obstacles. Meanwhile, agriculture and industry
remain the key sectors for lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize
livestock, exports, and rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the
emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs. Projects for urban development, public utilities
and transportation supplement these efforts. Besides the reviews planned
in the context of the tranches of the proposed loan, we propose to maintain a
close macroeconomic and sector dialogue with Turkey. The economic and sector
work planned over the next few months includes the March 1980 mission for
the Economic Sector Study Review and follow-up visits and work that will be
entailed, a research study on Public Sector Enterprises and Management, an
updating economic mission, and completion of sector memoranda on industry,
energy and agriculture.
74.        A thirteenth TSKB Loan designed to stimulate investments in export
projects of the private sector, two loans for a Private Sector Textile Project
and an engineering loan to assist the alleviation of air pollution in Ankara,
were approved by the Board in the first four month of FY80. Other projects
being processed for this and future fiscal years include those for hydro-
electric development, public sector textiles modernization, livestock, pilot
secondary oil recovery and oil exploration, fruit and vegetables, livestock
products, rural development, fertilizer production, employment generation in
selected cities, pulp manufacture, seed production and sewerage disposal in
Istanbul.
75.        The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt (includ-
ing short-term obligations) was 5.9 percent in 1978, and is expected to grow
to 10.0 percent by 1981 and to 12.5 percent by 1985. The Bank's share of
service payments is projected to fall slightly from its level of 7.7 percent
in 1978 to 6.4 percent in 1981, thereafter increasing to 7.6 percent by 1985.
76.        IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder



- 27 -
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of December 31, 1979,
gross IFC commitments totalled $208 million, of which $99 million were still
held by IFC. New investment opportunities are being pursued.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Features of special interest are described in paras.
35, 36, 39, 42, 46, 63, 65, 68, and 69 of the report.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 29, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 28 -
ANNB I
tILE 3A                                           Page  1  of 6
ThZfU   - SOCIAL DMOZA2VI DATA SE-
ja6AZC.0    .nrun=EN     G100?5 (ADJU$I:7  AqLA41S
______ ______ ______ _____                                              K4 S!   11C MET   ST:t !Z
M04L             750.6                                                  SAM         SAM      anE  S    Zb
ACX=~ThAL        552 .0                               mSm  1NS!       QOGAPC    290DM           L!C09
1960  /b   1970 /b UZDZ /lb  7.i0o  /e  oata  /e  7oo  i
GM m   CAPITA (055)                  290.0       520.0   1200.0           290.3    1097.7        1942.6
EKEJCY CDOSUMPTION PU CAPITA
(13LOG&A1 OF CO4AL IV      )      245.0       479.0    743.0           203.2       730.7      1646.7
rOATTON ASDl0 126L STATISTICS
DOPUAlD-ION, 613-221t1 .Lim)    27.5            35.3   * 1.9
U    Sna  ?OPMATON (Pt&=  Of 20.1. 29.7         55.4      42.9            56.3       49.0        51.2
JOFDMATZE PROJECTIONS
P05MATION IN 21 2000 (ILI)                              9.0
STATlOKAXI 1     WA r0  (M=t   )                        U.0
V1A STA.-20665PO5PU LATIO  IS RZ                      2070
PM SQ. Dl.                        35.0        45.0      54.0            $1.5       4.4        23.2
M5  Q. DI. Q0LTURAL 211           51.0        94.0      76.0           138.6      140.7       100.3
IS1055110  62 3T2CT5            r)
0-14 IR.                          41.3        41.7      41.0            25.6       41.3        35.4
15-64 15.                         55.2         54.0      54.0            62.9       55J.3        6.3
65 I. AIM Alm                       3.5         4.3       5.0            10.2        3.5         5.1
QO1.411002  56Z (me)
?WZAL                            124          1.5        2.5             0.9        1.4         1.7
GUN                                S.1[f       5.1       4.7             2.         4J          3.0
cam  Rim2  3Jl  (PU    USAM)        43.0       15.0       30.0            35.3       %.          27.5
cmt   KAT U TE CM t  IID)           11.0        13.0      10.0             9.2        9.2 I*.1
C5S IIPSO00CTZ   1 .1                2.9        2.6        LI               .2      .2.2          14
TAMY IttMZC
AccTr1S, Amami (eSIfDs)             ..         5.6      46.                -_         _ 
115s (MCT 0? Vl315   mor)  5.1                 8.2      =.             _ .           .7
7000 AXD tSZZ2ON
7DIDX OF FM   raocu
Pu  t4 t9l6 71-100)                1         1.          5 IO 10.7 ?                  4
MM CAPIA SDtt+t oF
C0610125  tPUWT Or
5900i5zWIS)                    110.0       112.0    113.0            134.2      305.0      2IO
0IJ   (GU*15 PM OAT)              75.0        75.0      75.7            95.4U   4U.            40.9
OF wzIC  AK . AMD PoUL            ..        22.Oj   24.7             45.4       23.5        31.3
CM. (Am5 1-6) MIA=   5x             24.0         .0        0.0             1.3        A          5.1
Lin =7thc&2  -AT in     CUMt5)   51.0           57.0      1.              70.0       40.2        WA
MaX7*    tA551 Y A=Y (M
0 si)                              187.0/f    1S3.0    11.0               31.5       4.7         454
A150 TO 6n 1A5M (ICDOT 0t
2.L                                 ..        32.0     73.0               ..        0.8      -09.
3R.                                 *.        S1.0      70.0              ..       7.7          5.1
..LAL    53.0      50.0              ..       40.0         43.0
6=SS 70 52C0RET DSIOUJL CP1   s
OF POPMAJ2IOU)
TOM62.                              ..           .        .               .       46.0         70.1
mu                                  ..          _..    .19.               ..       ^.46        W..3
1ADL                                                                       .        35         33.2
P    aso60 in MflsICION           3000.01    n2o50.0      2.o            94.4      22.          143.2
POA10TON P7 352c                      ..      1940.0   1450.0            A77.1     1195.4        A5.0
?DUUATI    m    53ITL 13
AL 690.01                                    690.0    440.0            to0.1      43.4        197.4
.31                              I9.0/       200.0    210.0               ..      253.1       240.2
.AL                                 ..      5690.0   5750.0               ..    2732.4       1055.0
ADMSSOsI   s PU  1s1I2AL              ..        20.0      20.0            15.3       22.1        17.3
AVEUAE SlIZE OF VOCI00LD
TOTAL                              5.7         5.9        ..              ..        5.3         4.7
01*                                 ..         ..         ..              ..        5.2         4.4
BSL                                 .            .        ...                        .          5.1
AVERAGE W51      OF 11rss6S PL m0M"
TOAL                                .          2.2        ..              ..        1.9         1.1
usW                                2.0         1.9        ..              ..        1.6         1.2
RDnJL                                .          .          ..                       2.5         1.2
ACZCSS I0 DZCTcCncs  (1t2c
OF DOL:.NCS)
IOTAL                             29.0        40.0      57.0                       50.0        66.0
71 ..                                           .a ..                                .         5  1
RURAL                              2.0        18.0                                 17.3



-29 -                                                 ANNE I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  2  of  6
TURKEY - SOCIAL IYDICATORS DATA SHEET
EREFERENcE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AERAGLES
- MOST RECENT ESTIHA&T) -
-  SAISE    SAME     NEXr  IGMSR
HOST RLCENT     GEOGRAPHIC   IHCOHE        LiCOtE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
AOJUSTlD ENROLLHENT RATIOS
p"JRY:       TOTAL                 75.0       109.0      104.0           105.7       102.5       101.7
MALE                 90.0        124.0      114.0           107.1       108.6       110.0
FEMALE               58.0         94.0      94.0            104.5       97.1         92.8
SECOUDAY:  TOTAL                   14.0        28.0       29.0            65.9        33.5        51.2
MALE                 20.0         39.0      39.0             70.3        38.4        56.4
FEMALE                8.0         16.0,     19.0             62.2       30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  18.0         14.0       15.0            20.4        11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACIMR RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.0        38.0       34.0            26.7        35.8        27.1
SECGRDARY                          19.0        28.0       27.0              ..        22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        38.0        55.5hk   60.0                ..        64.0        86.1
CONSUM1TION
PASSENGER CARS PER TAOUSAD
POPULATION                          2.0         4.0       11.4           105.5        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         49.0        89.0      105.0           233.7       122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS FER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         3.0       12.0           148.0        38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER (MAILY G     AL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PIZ
THOUSAND POPUMATION                  51.O          ..         ..               .        40.0        78.5
CINMA AiUAL ATTENDANCE P   CAPITA  1.1             6.7        ..              6.4        3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TOUSADS)    13783.0        15591.0   17052.0
:1ALE (PENT)                       40.2        37.2       37.3            32.3        25.0        24.5
AGRICULTE (FPRCuN)                 78.5        67.7       62.0            25.8        43.5        22.9
NDUtSTRY (PECNT)                   10.5        12.1       14.0            33.1        21.5        30.6
PAtTICIPATION RTE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                50.1        44.3       42.8            37.6        33.5        33.8
KALE                                 58.7        54.9       53.2             37.0       48.0        51.3
ThKLE                                41.2        33.4       32.1             2.0        16.8         16.3
EC5NOMIC DEPEENCY UATIO                 0.9          1.0       1.1              1.0        1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIIUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
REEIVED BY
IGST  5 PERCENT OF SOUSEROLDS   33.01h         32.8/1       ..               ..       20.8
SICNEST 20 PERCENT OF RO11111LDS  6i. o7       60.671    56.5/a           47.9        52.1        57.6
tWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEIOLDS    4.27r          2.971     3.47ii          5.0         3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   lo. 7i        9.471    i . 47ii         15.4        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED UASOLUT  POVETY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPrTA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      330.0              ..       270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     162.0              ..       13.3
ESTIMkTED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       385.0             ..       282.5       550.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     367.0           436.1       248.9       403.4
ESTI!MATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..        20.5
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..        35.3
MNo  available
lot sooli-Lble.
Zcwe                                                 NOTES
/a    The adjusted'gjoup averages for each indicAtor are population-weighted geomatrit means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries ao   the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uuiform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted., data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betCeen 1974 and 1977.
Ic    Esurope;  /d   Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle Incose (51136-2500
per capita, 1976);  /f  1955-60;  Ig  1965-70;  /h  1963:   /i  1967;  Ii  1962;  /k  Six yers and above;
/1 1968; In 1973.
most Recent Eatimate of GXP per capita is for 1978.
. February 1980



-30-                                                                     ANNEX I
1!WffTTO? OF           IIA  A                                                        Page  3  of  6
~ii ..o  ioxt fom8oo0o.goor.l~jodged th. mat -thrtLt.tlre  .0 od      a      it .0.01  alad to *0t.  that low? my  _t be  Intbya-
01    f 00,, 10k of -.1.4*1410d dolfi.itiOe   .04 .-Pt.90  84*d bY tiff.OeOit 00000010  L. OOill00tlO  the "at*. Th.0 "to W., nonothel.s,
00 0to 10---   N-cr  or megolt.d., ladloat. trend., -14 chamti.ri  .refl.l Mijor dlff.rettoi   b.teve   tootrLan.
Th. eLat oso    cocoofo  cib 1*dl.triO  ar. pop.WAlle-ceiht.d  -.,mtrio aaan, .-oldtiAf th. ..t-e   -o.l..e of the 10414.tr, *10  tbi *00t peOli
iOoomt,y    - to   q-p.  Ds  to 1.0* of dat, goop a-rer.4 Of .LI lndioatore for Capital B-p.*1. Oil  -.000**  or lod%qt-tr  of A0..0.. Wo wtiro *0  M-0.1.
lieoso,  Oos..1-c4  iltrl.tiwco  *0  P-vety foe other cosetry Sroup. are p"eIt.tii,-eeihted  rst trie mot   ithout e-Ilsotm  of th. eXtrem   -L.1*  6*d
'.lr,the --rermg of oxotri..  ing tOte jidl-tor. 0.000000toalbIlit  0dtand is oat wifor  ofote  met hr  --etie
is.            xi 1~~~~.i.io~tort  45510cr-  Thb-eroemo toormt u.tatfol..        .,1-   troiIO   of'I oe   eo.oo  0.*1   the venlu   of iva
T  t(2lr ot Ct                -tryO 0011.,0ffror  ro.
J8~ 71  101004 OrO.    -piigo.-)dtlid  sed                                         4.42.0.t   ee.f'.o*   veoa   foosmto)-ttl'4be    a   R
&____   T- 1.0111.  Io r.omreo   ad*8a~110    e..                                          o       ofPeop    toTi,V  wi.., 0   reral   ,Crd          eao            d Ipoi  o
521ioL-lil-   00101 000*  .Otimate of wirtuItuW*1 atOe. 4.".  Unorrtly                  peeo0o"teg*  of their reepetiro Ppaa.lttmau. bret. dispoe.1 mny 1001..
or  ooool  Tor  -ooy, p-U-o.e*  nallft *0d kitch.. g*46. or to                         th*e oxlk-tlma  -d ditp.1oa, .1ttO    or  thot treatomot, of bano  -or:t.
U.e                                                                                    adl.oi.m    -ate.-nate  by oit--r-hoo   .7t-m  or t4.0  -  of pit polelme *0  -41.1.,
MP      CAPITA LL21l) - (MP err ..Pita Oitltm*e at 004000.0 immut pete..,                       P.PeUt on divided by em.. of jmctiofto  ibysteta..
CLmlo..to.l Ip z-n  -ooerida method is 00,14 b     Atli.  (1976-78 bmlo)                 q.ltetm.ado.    coO1 atoseriylvl
1~~0, 1971, rOd 1979 slOt..                                   powiatlo. ore Usro lgP-r.  - Popeltift  divided by W.0.b  of' p,metlelog mile
4NMo cagly!f`lOc           f  - Aoo-e. -oonmtion if e*iiOOl* .-W                          *4f leraat               re.  priotlecl   -s.  med daecit-t 0400-
IcoEdoss 111010,  polrbooa     ..o.l g-  md4 hydo--,       ,*0-                       oultor   oeia   o  - total  oedmoo            tO  mrood ;Poolatle  (tOtW, oet.,
thor..  0.10, bit1) lo x1lgor.ee  of ..alqki.10  po. ..  pdt., 190                                   ditOd bytei   ei.tleom                   or h-opita beo aL.0lbl. to
~~ ~~. 1.976 t.~~~~~~~~. ~phli.oiod prieat. gemr.1 -ed pftl1ioe.d  o..ptP l not rlhaiilitattor eoti
POytJATlt1i7    "A Svr    r'rC                                                             Ititahllilm t. providixg principally ..toiolalW      O  w4 mt inldetid. Pore.]
le.iJ.oe.  -  . o  Jay 1  1)10,1970, med           44.910.l8, beo-a,  101.80 .0.   .04It     med     i   t 00ev. met  reemently mstaffd
by aP",. otto (hot by . meaditl oiot.i.tt, 4..., aldlfe, itO.) ohi.h offir
Oe'rb Po,osoloe- tro       of ~tetil (   utot   of m4rtiO to total PoPAlOiOm;            la..0.0   mmedalo  aidpOoide adPl.   illtod raii, of enadigl fuoititi.o.
lii f-oot Oftw  15.40 of .4.  *00  MY if fit  GnOMyiiilIb  Of d0At                  Ah941ft 2ff.fj      it.1.90d * ftt*1 Sinbi of *idli*tOi  0* 0  dl.ohrg.tg    froa
anos   otrem   160, 190, d 1973 data.                           ~I                          ~ Iiii              a      fbd.
rouai            o         Cx*me  1pwanoma projectionsire b"oed ma                 am
195.   lAojIdol        by ige.4 so, aa~m theiLr nort.lIty eM  fertillityr         AeaeOt I      Of hoshl  (..* 9vheeo1)-tta    ito   0   i
i;.vo_ ooot life eoPetmcy at bIrth iaorma.l.g i1th Onnoy.ye                          their nam. mea..  A boardmr or lodger my or my met to LmIaid L. the
p*0oxi  is.   lv, -d f.-o  Uifo *004*p              7 -t-   lo..ya tbl.f L            onskhOd fr-  otiattlat. P-rp-..
77.5  oro.  VTh aoe omm    ser  for fertllity rat. SIMA here three101*            Aara SeMer of= OifM I0*         00* tt-.ob,. a                      - A.80*.       1
aaoooirz doO.I.n  L. feottlity aoordl.  to tenons le-e  md pint                      ofpee aspr e         Ie      tba   e   oa    exldeae.le1dele
9amUZ....l.  pofeetc   mb codtory I. th- ea .0140.  me of tme"                       roqoCttvily.  IM.1110*  imadef maP-pemo t #t-otLr*s mad moeeepted P-to..
Mmo.  -9,L-.Iz~ Of mortality miA fertIlty tedom  for peojeetlo                            tO~erot   90 0o    cIIIge  _-.toft                   *. .,h. d 0r.4 -. Coo-
ft   1_,~   i-  - In. otai.mae  opda.1110  UOPio  Is so gZemt                   total, areso, mad revel demus1.a ospicti-ml.
fl~~~~i  M      .I equl to Uh. dftth rate, and *10 the ice
40..-0t    A-sejoaaemtoot. Dul. L. aelve   air aftel feetllty vate.
&001.2a    to0.0 reploaaanmt l.Ioe  of omIt mit eepo-   tima mt.,  ba                        aM5tmto
.wo  foo-lbo  of            meves. itsof meertl.  MN  t"altma    Ppep.                roo   em   - t            u     4feanio . cross total, oi. ad fra.L  oolai.-
lottotL .10*   a. t.iontd ma th. ba*ie of the p-eolmto  abrmeterittIimto aUsg.atteplm l`evel;;                                  G aP-rect""m of roe-patli" prlimay
Of =Ut popol.oilo   to O. yea, 260D, mand the eoat of decline of fertlity              eiheo..i  Opipl.tiomaa  meemlly 1001.4.  hldre. aged 6-il y-e  bto
0010 to -oPI.Oaaoot boL.                                                               adJusted frdiffereat length$ of hulmavy edwtoftim    for .OnEtrtn clth
ME            womuttoo  ios01.1. Ia eome   0m 7,r *m    tal           waitiom            malverial odmatto    earoilLomt my nxsed 1I0 paectat ai100.6w  pupil.
ffdctooLeoo `-otEad                                                                   iov  balma or oho.  the ofl.i.   440  ope.
Z45~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ttl mile *0 ..elU - comted - mbSk-, omeidary
.   ,Wpopulation Pinr swuear  tilamwmtin o~f  boutmerm) of                                                 Yearsori   t108  f00 00  Lf ippeOvid primary LtoetOt4t0.
i%  t..                                                                                  pmi    gameval wiational, .4 tomalbar trolato  J10.etroemai fir pApila
Competd as  bm  fm  grivatoral.Ind          aLiy of 12 to 17 yeas.. of w4e; iorreepmademe iwo..e. am0 gawrill
209.101100ioo  to~                     children- 2   (0-lb4 Year), meeki.g-qp           Vocational noellemat loarcet of doodadar) . Vocation.al imtlto.t1.m   ina1de
11-1  -o-l.040td    (b7 ye.  mad eve) s  pmerentaueso f mid-pai                 tAoeidkOLifde.fklorohe   e                      Gme i  Operate independently me *4
p052oq.m .00s 1910, (.970, *0d 1977 dat.,                                                department. of so... ary I.*titutottma.
G--.to  0.th tate (-Mrot)-00.   A- LIsa  eetb emai of tota  mid-                   P,UOmhr000-Ola)  *t*ema.      0*   ta.ma.lled 1..
yooo yoy.10lmao  or  950.4, 1.0- ande l9Y-77.                                                       FM*8   MOoodo   0..04044b   mer   o    .m. her   L.h. dov,re-
PO00otl.o troot 000 (pe-et) - octo-    c.4.  gmth rat.. or gobma                           emadl I .c. U.
-a.io   for 1950-00, 190-70, oEd 192075.1                                                                            1.1..29~A.yp9        tetoo.t.  t. (ill. to road em   wit.) i
Mo IAT1s1lot.  (Mr..thoo, d) - Amme.0  1 iv  birth. pie teMiind of mid-                    ipmeomogeObo6*1 t  960.01.1.10  igod 15  eara ed a   -ro.
por ool1IiooThi9I '19, omO 1977 dat..
1r.04  othtt              tra       A-.Oai  death. per theanood of mLd.p.r           0iDW
pei11t10;191qAm170, R41)9_77 data.                                                 e     w            M                            p-ew    ire. e~oonr     nter aer0
4410 - Aeorio  amer of Omaghoor a   - mill tbe                       a ierl..boi1tjl..1o                              Lamcame. &an 40 m ed alitery
o.yr,o--       t    perpiod it a.o eaparlone   0-*0*t ice-                     cehOOlae
opad lfb.  ori7Ay rot..; oabyfl--ea- --- amaenm  -dina A. too0.                      0mb!   moler (mr            ...1ma eoeuitt ) - AUl type. of eetrofor vdie.
W     -$ bo t9m5.                                                                      Uemmt  to so"ri  peli  per theosmd of poolstitma; mecb.ii.  malIcomead
?,nib, W I o- dyore   m               thiomed.) - AaI bannr of                          eet.-a AS iO.*0rlme  -M  1. lOire Wbeo lgititOt1.0 of r.4d.4  etS -* U0
*04.900.0 ofhlrl..eMvol  00140 aier    i_po   of    .   ime1 f omIlv         87*     "U d ta for v..t yem  my met ho .Waato  em.- Slot abotrioe
PL-lm0 9oopo-                                                                           bhoUehd linea.in..
VankLY Poddles  - Poor  (1*0*   ofmerId.                P.Imeotog  if  -Iotd           TVh.lr         m(e  ttm.. d m2polaio) - TVt 00100   fee beomdoodt t. gaara.L
cifollA-boold oe (5-4 yore1 Wo a. bbt-.00tnml d.1eod.                elopr               ppltm:io*.  nlcaiiea.d TV Meetler  to omemtrlc
to 01.1  _Iald        i . .m   ege gSloop           .                                  mad L. Y-e  W0 regioteattma or TV00 eat        4 io L.ffect.
Rappe.e   CleUltiot he- th.edand   ulatiom( - Oh-o the  -e.oe    Oir.Ulti-.
P      r I    02771                                                                 eudal i aearl. Latorvet  -epeper-, deflid -e a perioditea  petllatioox
0tiO1.1-  00   -e ftpit. (1969-71.100    14.4- of per depita                  . e  pemoniAt, to reoodLf  -o.et  m.   It 1o cmidorod to ho 'daL,'
o~iyvo0rtim   f oll food   -d1ti... Prod-iton  -14do. an.d mad                    if It  ppeara at i.a.t feu  time * mee.
?o4.M. - o t  o.l.-0ar pen  haOi*. Conaditi.. mevr prelkey good-                     Clome dOaltA  Attqoejeeers:Capt mar Ye-  . hoed ma the n..o  of ticktr.
(0.97 oo&eeoe  tooted of .0404.  bulo   or edtibr and. ti.tat* mOtleat                 00d          thep., lid4t.t   Moleodrv-.10.64eaio
10,.S. oofo   04O,  400 exo-luded).  Aigrgat. predutima of met e-try                   -1   -.                              a-oat   rl-.ine  n    bl
do 100.1  L4 0000*.1 0.000    pred-ee                                                  -it..ugt.
90 OxtIto  sotlyof Oolrleo  000-0 of Uonloet) - C.WAd  from                lAED PW!r
po     - oy.It blol   ouPpli., _myrime d-*tio  p-084.01, Loplort 1*0            ooo*4mamloo   u  o~.odirg bou4.lve, otuat., * o. bifli1ti.a
-dlo   00 OhiOO  I.0t00k.  ]et -ppi-e  .-I."4  *01.61 food, *00.,4         i, to  aroa  rttOrios ire w0t -parabl..
-10110    0  ii food  -e oteg,eAd14.0.. ILt di.tribotima. Requtr-            7 ~.      .  y _ppt)  --P.01   lehr fro. is Perooato.g  of total totor fooc.
tol   Oto oOiotedby 7Sf' b-".d a"pbW.lologleal oe.d. for  -emi               0I1w m                   - Labor fore  to faeceg, foraetrp, h-tiog aid
-0000  00 huaXtb  -o*Ioieg  -mtreanetal           .L-eat, body' might. .        l 1him   a.  .reeii1.eg  of total 1.4.0 feo.-
o.Jod  m  di.tlitu_sm.  of oe.oand .04lluin  10 000.00 for                         la t i   tpooyJ.p-9r- taboO       o 1.1014w   OmaoOroilia  m,afaotios and
00. so 01 OOes.OeO00ld level.                                  il(i1.trieo,    ater.0  g-sa  pereoetog  of total labor 0.-0..
Moopo,   .ol o         0 _ti. (irma err day) - Protete OoOt0*t of per               Pmt iipatigotkte (orre-t) -total, male   t   "e-I, - htrtiip.tima or
Oli    Vp0 Ossl- of-od W,r day. ekt mePPl of food L. di10d *0otleltyroi   -r oapted is totl, m                                ole, d. t-0.al  tho  fey. is Per-
01.so. o1-      ~ a   for ill  -troti.. etabiliihd by U344 p-0d. for                 oentoge  of total, male mad femle Pl.la.ti- or ill ode. roootivety;
o1is  tlooo  or tO bram   Of touta  P00001  per day ama  20 groo  of             19t.0. 1970, .0d 1975 data.  ?aeee ar  1W.0  p.vrt.ipattma  rate. refootiog
0002oo ps.e,'t.o, of idIot 10 grnne ih-Id h. o *010   p-.k0d.               0*0-Oo ot-utor  of the Popul.tift, 004 lon  tIme treed.  A fre .itloitv
-t xotoO    0  lo-e  0.h  the.. of 75 aem   Of total p0*t.L* 04             On  frma matlya  -o o..
1.. E5i0o of 001u1 P-ttei. -4mei g  for Lb. se14, proposd by ?AO                   3.0001.0 DmeodeoyRtt0     -  Ratio of P.pultt 10  -Adr 15 an4 65 mad eri to
i .0 101,  0 00014 70.4F-  Siorey                                                    the   br ifr         10  ge geoop of 15.65 Y-re
Noooto0.01   _m011  fr. .010.1 0.1 yie  . PrOtola m.Pply of food
11.r,,.. 10,. ooaol. eodlos 100,loom  peedo.                         riEam DISOIUff1.t
A"1.                  t2, -. htlIo.00.r0ts.5.i    A - 1Staa d.atb. per *oou.Od  Pvreet-. 0  POeti lo        (both.  ...o h .d4 k1d) - ge.oelve  bp olihot
t   iios;1-4, 150r0, toc       L.eoi thl ie ft eoop; fr.  -et demel-            5:peoo,rOet 20 Peroet, poab  20 P.-001, mid poorot 1.0 peeoto
09104d O,tl.00  slot sivolod  on-  1.10 Lbtte..                                       of' touoohoLd.
U(.1 ki-toooo at Elt' I- 0..   Aberi             Oer of pore of lite                    -L-tmte  Ab-l-st Povety lo--  L,vl(1$ert    to     0.  0   o
- 500 O  000  0  it-s*-i. ii.- tilt..                                                affrdable.
0 - 0 ..ltor (00000lotoio    ttiu o eo rura  -                              Rotimated R.14.tiv   Por,-   ooeLre  (LM4 err  -prtL. - 00060 od 040.
011  oltir    al)a  on.vee   ftereooto    eoal p0i,.ett.lv4 t                                   losofinrio  bos0 Urosoet  Lcmi  roO  (-corth   orko 1..
-00,.,  .00PL., - foittl,  ort etiodpoe,t-lcted b-01.    p,igtOo                Ltha -Ateroct fof  ho,ixto   (or.i *,0 tEal -D.saeaolt   .
04005 o  tItt 1.0*.   10rurl. aofa  tlr a...Ol p-tOiC p0014 implyL                                                                                       r 
dl80iyotioot  plt o  th  4m  t1  fOthlo -th      h-lt'  mat.    ed                                                O.i  OSlatyOto i04lOrobootiO*lipetme
February 1980



-31 -
TUKE3Y - ECONOSOC DEYELOPIEINT DATA ShEET-58
Page 4 f 6
Shar   f
A c t ua 1                    Provisional                 Pr jected                                    Grovth Rates             GDP
1970     1973       1975      1977       1979      1979       1980      1982       1983      1985       1990      70-78      79-85     85-90      1978
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (TL Billion. 1978 Prices)
1.  Grose domtic product                         720.3    876.1    1034.2    1172.1    1212.7    1230.9    1249.3    1328.6    1375.1    1473.1    1880.1             6.7        3.0       5.0      100.0
2.  Gai from teres of teade                       -6.0       3.      -.0.2      -10.1       0.0      -17.7     -72.9      -29.7      -31.8     -38.7      -67.7        ..         ..         .        0.0
3.  Grois domestic income                        714.3    879.9    1034.0    1162.0    1212.7    1213.2    1226.6    1300.0    1343.3    1434.4    1812.4             6.5        2.9       4.8      100.3
4.  fEp-rc  (COOPS)           -42.7                         66.3      50.8       54.4       67.2      79.6       89.2     103.8      111.1     129.4      183.1       3.8        8.3        7.6       5.1
5   lIpore (G o hFS)                              60.0      93.9     140 4      167.4     16  E      103 1      114 9     125 7      129.2     137.8      159.2       8.9        5.0        2.9       9.8
6.  Aesource bulence                             -i7.3    -27.6    -89.6    -113.0        -51.6      -23.5     -25.7      -21.9      -18.1      -9.4      -25.9        ..         ..         ..       4.3
7.  Invesmeect                                   130.0    158.1      245.0      273.2     248.4      238.5     238.5      245.7     250.6      260.8      329.6       8.4        1.5       4.8       20.5
8.  consumption                                  590.4    723.7      846.5      974.4    1015.9    1021.9    1036.6    1104.8    1142.5    1221.7    1524.5            7.0       3.0       4.5       83.8
9.  Doosctic ecoinga                             129.9    152.4      187.7      197.7     196.8      209.0     212.7      223.8     232.6      251.4      355.6       5          3.1       7.2       16.2
10. Notional savLngs                             143.3    191.3      214.2     213.0      212.7      210.6     206.1      216.6     222.5      236.2     319.7        5.1        2.0       6.2       17.5
A. SECTOR OUTPUT                                                                           Share of Total Ooieut (Percent)
1.  Agriculture                                   29.6      27.9      29.5       28.1      27.0       26        26.7       26.1      25.7       25.0       21.6
2.  Inductty                                      27.2      26.5      26.1       26.1      27.7       27.5      27.4       27.3      37.2       26.9       28.2
3.  Other                                         43.2      45.6      44.4       45.8      45.4       45.7      45.9       46.6      47.1       48.1       50.2
C. PRICES (1978 = 100)
1.  Bxport prices                                 43.7      63.8      84.0       95.6     100.0      103.6     110.1      122.6     129.4      144.7      187.7
2.   mporit pricee                                47.7      61.8      84.2       87.6     100.0      138.9     147.9      169.3      181.3     207.2      296.0
3.  Terms of tr-de                                91.6    103.2       99.7       99.8     100.0       76.0      74.4       72.4       71.4      69.8       63.4
4.  GDP deflotor                                  20.2      33.7      50.2       73.4     100.0      160.0     240.0      452.0      543.0     624.0    1444.0
5.  Aver-ge nochonge race ($1.00 = TL)            11.0      14.2      14.4       18.0      24.3
D. PUBLIC FIhANCE                                                  Percent of GDP
1.  Ceotr=l govercmeocrevenue                     22.6     20.9       23.1       24.2      24.2
2.  CentreS gover--ntmecpegAitore                 24.9      22.0      23.7       27.9      28.5
3.  Public sector deficit                           -        2.1       6.1        9.0
let.
1970-78                                                                              1970      1975     1977      1978
E. SELECTED INDICATORS                                                              F.  LABOR FORCE
ICO1                                               3.0                               Civiliar labor force (eillion)                   13.6     15.7     16.2      16.2
Import elesticity                                  2.4-                              Onn-ploy-eet And udnrem-ploymeet (/. of GDP)   11.0       12.3     13.1      13.5
Average doostic saving rote                       16.9                               Civilian employment (million)                    13.1     14.7      14.8     14.7
MarnLool do.estic suving rote                     13.6                                 of vhith (Si
I_oesoteea(tAP                                    20.2
Ivpor-/OGDP                                       11.4                               Agrioulcure                                     67.1      64.5     61.6      61.3
1 Acstep                                        33.3      14.9     16.3      18.7
Other                                           19 6      20.6     22.1      22 0
L/  Totale   y ot Iadd up bec.e of ro..din  errors.
2/  borroeieg requirement of _ontrol 8ovnrre_t. setne economic enterprises, und other public authorities.
31 For 1970-77 period.
February 1980



aIlll                           ,0 al                                                                                       ?
40                                                   00      00     0        a'   E~                             ;  @F@-2s F0  00S0 i  
n    ooa            0000 H   0          0  00Omm 99ow o r                                                D  :er s   
000                   000   a   0                   tD                                           * 00  a  so * r:         0    Ooo>@*
a    O   o io              0    0                 000                             ta     2 n o*4 o .  0 o0  a,n,, b       a0   r     
C~~~~ 0                                       O            H   00           Ho      0   0         0   0   0              
~~~0.04    H                          a    r0             _A o           a                        00   Ia   00         0>XHHOf     eX 
a        o beo-     00m--                        <'400                               O                o0S                  a>
0 0 0  0            00                            0-              0'                00    0   0 g       0            00  M
OOW                  00         0          a CY0                         g-.. a=           a    a _4                 00 a3z
00 _                                              <5                                                                 aO   H
000 n                                                                oft           I 0 
I                                044    t.000S    0   ~0 0 4 -0 04- H 4-'0 
I     DW_t   ;V____stO_s
o000                     0     04.       HOs '0            aO-'        0a 0'0              r400        rrwgo SaS~t0    040<    wtoft
00.                                                                                                                                0 _
v r b                             I             |                      I I I I~~~
Oo.o               mso             o      M 0- 0 0' 0 04    0-0        040 _      -404                Ho   '0e  r440             4000e 2pV kJ
n~~~~~~~~~~~ o e                                                                                                          g
r.0  a:                  a                                 ao   a        a                    a 00                              a 0             a'0*S0               
o O O O j o8 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~40        0' 0    040H0-0
D~~~~~~~~~~~0 n0 o                                               0 0<4   0 0 04 '00                            '0   OO 
0                                                                    04r          40                    S0        40
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''              04 0 0                   0 04
O                                                   _ I   _~~~~~~~~0  _ 0>    04004           00 _0      
o                                              _ w ~~~~~~~~~   +  N   cN 3w  ofi s o M   N  w          3f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0404 0- 044    4004 000
~0         040      0               00 000  000               O
>~~~~~~~~                                                                   ~~~~ 0' e'    '000 S40                  '    0~9 ~  
no ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    -             040           4 04 0 0
O _ kn I Vl N SW040W0W0000_004040    0004                                                                     0       0
3   S  S  S ~~~ o S r W r r0                                                                                          0 oo     
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ a                                                     o'



_ 33 -
TURREY - EXTERNAL DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                          ARUM  I
Page 6 of 6
Actual                                     Provisional
1970       1973        1975        1976        1977       1978             1979
A. OUTSTANIENG DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.   Public Medium and Long Tem  (M and LT)(Disbursed)  1/            1854        2869        3176        3519       4326       6100            10956
2.   Private N and LT (disbursed)  1/                                   42         115         160         253         479       557               650
3.   Short Term  2/                                                      .         279        1398        3441       6600       7469              3770
4.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                 1896        3263        4734        7313       11405     14126             15376
5.   Undisbursed Public M and LT  1/                                   840        1101        1641        2393        2804      3500              3800
B. DEBT SERVICE (Million US Dollars)
1.   Interest on all Debt (net of relief)  3/                          -47         -59        -150,      -300        -570       -710              930
2.   Amortization of M and LT Debt (net of relief)                    -146         -72        -117        -119       -214       -380              -55s
3.   Total Debt Service Payments                                      -193        -131        -267       -419        -784      -1090            -1480
C. DEBT BURDEN
1.   Debt Service Ratio  4/                                           18.8         4.4         7.7        11.2       22.2       26.7              30.2
2.   Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP  5/                         15.0        15.7        13.1        17.9        23.9      28.3              29.0
D. EXPOSURE
1.   Bank Group DOD/Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                   7.2         7.8         9.1         7.6        6.1         6.0              7.0
2.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                        3.2        14.9        12.2        10.8         8.3        7.7              7.4
E.  COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OUTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT                                  1978                                  1979-6
(Million US Dollars)                                    (Amount)  (As X of Total)              (Amount)  (As . of Total)
1. Medium & Long-Term Debt                                                   6657          47.1                   11606          75.5
a.     Public Medium and Long-Term                                       6100          43.2                   10956          71.3
(i)  Bank Group                                                   836           5.9
(iV)  Other Multilateral                                           612           4.3
(iii)  Governments                                                 3900           27.6
(iv)  Suppliers                                                    170            1.2
(v)  Financial Institutions                                       545           3.9
(vi)  Bonds                                                         35           0.2
b.     Private Medium and Long-Term (Total)                               557            3.9                    650           4.2
2.  Short Term                                                                7469          52.9                   3770           24.5
Mi)  Convertible Turkish Lira Deposits                           2860          20.2
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Commercial and Oil Arrears                1675          11.9
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                            862           6.1
(iv)  Bankers Credits, Reimbursement Credits,Overdrafts            924            6.5
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                363            2.6
(vi)  1MF                                                           622           4.4
(vii)  Other                                                         163           1.2
3.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                         14126         100.0                    15376        100.0
1/  Bank DOS data.
2/  Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.
3/  Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data, except for 1979.
4/  Total debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
5/  At market prices.                                                                                                     February 1980
K/  Bank staff estimate.
EMENA CPIIA



- 34 -
ANN=X II
T1MlfEI: OIL IMPORTS IN BALOCE OF PAYMENWS (1970 through 1985)
OACrUAS                                             ESTIRATE                           PROJECTED -
0 1970    0970       1972       0973      0974       0975       1976      1977       1978      S959       1980       1981       1982      1983      1984       1985
GDP Growtht Rate                'P   4.7         9.9       6.3        4.4       8.5        8.9        8.5       4.4        3.5        1.5        1.5       2.9        3.2        3.5       3.5        3.5
Net Oil Imports (.I b-rrele) |  28.9           42.0       54.8       63.3       68.9      71.3       91.3      101.7    1002.5       02.5      102.5     102.5      102.5      102.5      102.5     002.5
Price pro bSreet (9 c.i.f.) L         2.1        2.9       2.9        3.5       11.7      11.3       12.3       13.9      14.1       24.5       31.3      34.5       38.1       42.0      46.3       51.1
Cost of Net Oil Tmports
(Do Correct CSO lull03.osS        61.5      121.6      154.8     221.4      805.6      807.9    1124.8    1420        1437       2500      3200       3564      3920       4312       4744      5217
Not 01 Imports _as Percent of
Exports of Goods sod NF8            8.2      13.9       13.4       02.1       37.9      37.5       41.0      57.4       46.3       66.7      63.1       61.7       61.2       60.0      58.0       55.7
Curetet Accouto Defioit
(T. Corr.ot US$ milliOo)       1  58      -  38         05       515      - 780     -1892      -2295      -3572      -1710    .0600       I200       -2150    -2225       -2214     -2339      -2313
Curret Accosot Defitit
cc percent of GNP                 4.1        2.2        -          -         2.4        5.1       5.6         7.6       3.4        2.4         3.3       3.0       2.7       2.5        2.3        2.0
(ic c..stot- 78 Prices &
Correct Arcount Deficit 
of Correct          0.5       3.3        -          -         2.5        0.0        2.5       7.4        3.4        3.0         5.3       4.0       3.8        3.6        3.8       3.1
D.11.r GNPI
/I   Coerettns Jaroary 1981 Positioc Papor cc tiediGo-Cere Pto-po-to states thot free 0900 cowards,  virt-aly .co.stst le7el cc vcolue" of oil imports is projected.
/2  Projected price por barreD 1s  ohoot 23.00 higher that those pro-eored by DPS  keracee lorsey has to coke oor pcroseese  to the spot  rhro.
/B Bask's pro-iiorai e.lcate.
Petbrory 1940



ANNEX III
- 35 -                         Page 1 of 4
Economic Policy Package
On January 25, the Government has announced, throu-h several
interlocking decrees, a rather comprehensive economic poli_y package.
It is not only a strong stabilization program, but also one that lays
the foundation for some structural economic changes and desirable modifi-
cations in medium-term economic policies. The detailed decrees are being
translated. Meanwhile based on extensive explanations of what they contain,
given to the IMF and the Bank by senior Turkish officials this week, the
principal elements are summarized below.
Exchange Rate Regime
(a)      The Turkish Lira, whose parity value was TL35 = US$1.00. except
for several commodities that had a premium fixed at TL47 = US$1.00, has
been devalued by nearly 100 percent to TL70 = US$1.00. A lower multiple
rate of TL55 = US$1.00, now appilies only to the import of fertilizers,
insecticides and inputs for both.
(b)      In future, cross rates will be adjusted automatically by the
Central Bank. The principle is also established that so will the
exchange rate vis a vis the US$ (after discussion with a new Money and
Credit Committee (para. q below)), generally determined by the differen-
tial rate of inflation in Turkey and its trading partner having the
weakest currency.
(c)     The temporary 20 percent stamp duty on imports, is reduced to
1 percent, thus linking exports and imports directly to the exchange
rate.
(d)      The difference between TLs earned from exports of key agricultural
commodities and the prices fixed on weight basis by Government as those
which provide sufficient incentives to the producers, are to be channelled
into a Price Stabilization Fund now with the Central Bank. From this
Fund, Government will cover subsidies on fertilizers, provide export
credits etc. to exporters and cover export risk insurance until institu-
tional facilities in that regard are approved by Parliament.
Export/Foreign Investment Incentives
(e)      Except for commodities covered by agriculture support prices,
foreign exchange earned in exports totalling less than $50,000 can be
retained abroad by the exporters. Over that, the exporter is allowed to
retain 50 percent of export earnings to be applied towards the import
of his inputs, provided he advises his bank handling the transaction
within 6 months of exports, of his intention to do so.
(f)      Commercial banks are now allowed to maintain accounts into which
they will retain 80 percent of export earnings or worker remittances made
by their clients (20 percent goes to the Central Bank). Once the importers
get clearance from the technical ministry concerned for the import of commo-
dities on the Restricted List, they get foreign exchange from these banks,
out of such accounts, instead of from the Central Bank. This is a major



- 36 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
structural change for liberalizing the export and import licensing
regime.
(g)      From the 50 percent legal reserve placed by commercial banks with
the Central Bank, the commercial banks can provide export credits, term
credits and working capital to exporters, as well as finance export invest-
ment proposals, at an interest rate of 11 percent only, with the discount
rate of the Central Bank being 8 percent.
(h)      Investments up to $50 million, in which foreign investors must
have a minimum investment of $2 million and no more than a 49 percent
share, are to be automatically approved by a new department created in
the Prime Minister's office (para. r). Those over $50 million, will be
reviewed on merit by that Office. Investments involving IFC or Islamic
Bank have no limit on size or field of investment and will be automatically
approved, provided the investor holds no more than 49 percent. Even this
ceiling is not applicable to investments made by Arab OPEC countries, or
for hotels with more than 400 beds, where 100 percent foreign ownership
can be allowed. The repatriation of the sale of an investor's equity is
also guaranteed, as IFC had been insisting.
(i)      To encourage oil exploration/investments by foreign oil companies,
the well-head price of oil is further increased over the sizeable increase
made in April 1979. For oil found or produced by such companies after
January 1, 1980, they can export 35 percent of oil produced, as their
share of the profits.
(j)      To resolve the problem of unguaranteed trade credit arrears of
about $1.9 billion, foreign creditors must opt within 90 days between:
(i) consolidation in US$, with repayment over 10 years including 4-1/2
years grace, with 7 percent interest at the TL parity on January 25, 1980,
or (ii) consolidate in TL with smaller amounts repaid in 18 months and
larger ones with 24 to 30 months. Such TL amounts can be used by them
to invest in Turkey, within the liberalized investment rules mentioned
above.
SEE Reforms
(k)      Substantial increases in prices of SEE products such as petroleum,
cement, steel, sugar, coal, lignite and printing paper,as also in tariffs
of service SEEs like railways, Soil Products Office ana Maritime Bank
(which collectively accounted for nearly 50 percent of budgetary deficits)
have been announced, to add about TL350 billion to 1980 gross revenues, In this
the average tariff for bulk power has been increased from about 120 krs/kwh
to an average of 280 krs/kwh.
(1)      So far, the prices of several SEE products/services were arbitrarily
constrained and could be increased only by Cabinet approval, since they
were placed on "a list of basic items". All goods and services have now
been removed from this "basic list",except for fertilizer, coal/lignite,
the cargo tariffs of Railways, Maritime Bank and Turkish Cargo Lines, and
electricity rates only for ferro chrome and aluminium production. In other
words, the Board of Directors of the SEEs concerned will now set their own
prices depending on market forces, so as to generate enough not only
to cover their operating deficits, but cash for their investment programs,



- 37 -                         ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Through the price mechanism and improved management and efficiency in the
SEEs themselves, the SEEs will have to meet all of this. Their operating
deficits will no longer be met from the Budget. While their investment
projects would in future be reviewed by the SPO from the viewpoint of
whether they fall within the Plan objectives and are viable proposals,
such pro, -ts will no longer be financed from the Budget. Nor
will SEEs have any access to Central Bank borrowings,except
seasonal credits for some of them. This is a major milestone in Turkish
economic policy, which has been accomplished by decree under the existing
SEE law, and does not require parliamentary approval.
Domestic Resource Mobilization
(m)      Since continuing increases in SEE prices could price them out
of the international market, revenues are instead to be augmented through
a "significant tax package" being tabled to the Parliament this week.
After study, new simple indirect taxes, like value added taxes, are
proposed to be introduced in future, along with others, to raise resources
on a continuing basis through taxes. This is another major shift in
Turkish economic policy, since proposals for new taxes have rarelv been
proposed to the Parliament, nor has the Parliament passed any tax package
for the last 8 years.
(n)      All lending rates have been increased by 2 percent over those
prevailing before January 25, 1980. In addition, interest rates for
medium-term credits of beyond 5 years,no longer have any ceiling and
can be negotiated between the borrower and the banks concerned. This
freeing of interest rates on loans beyond 5 years, is a major step towards
gradually reducing the negativeness of the interest rate structure in
Turkey.
(o)      As part of the Government's objective to bring down inflation
in 1980 to about 50 percent, and then continue to exercise a downward
pressure on inflationary growth, legislation is being introduced this
week in Parliament to contain wage increases in public and private sectors
by allowing automatic rate adjustments of only half the rate of inflation
in a given year,if the overall rate exceeds 40 percent.
Administrative Arrangements
(p)      A small Coordination Committee under the Undersecretary
in the Prime Ministry and having the Undersecretaries of SPO, Industry,
Energy and Treasury, the Governor of the Central Bank and the Head of the
Economic Department of SPO, will expedite formulation and implementation
of economic policies, trade regimes and the coordination of external aid.
(q)      A new Money and Credit Committee, again under the Undersecretary
in the Prime Ministry, with the Undersecretaries of SPO, Treasury and Commerce
as well as the Governor of the Central Bank, the Head of the Economic
Department of SPO and the Head of Internal Revenue's Economic Department,
are to coordinate, monetary and credit developments, solve financial bottle-
necks, decide on pricing policies and quickly approve adjustments in cross
rates and exchange rates.



- 38 -                    ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
(r)      A new private Foreign Investment Department has been created
under the Undersecretary in the Prime Minister's Office. It alone will
review and approve applications of foreign investors for investments in
Turkey.
(s)      An Incentives/Implementation Department has also been established
under the Undersecretary in the Prime Minister's Office. It will not
only develop and deal with all export promotion incentives, measures and
institutions in order to promote export and export oriented investments,
but will also continuously review the ongoing investments in the country
from the point of establishing which of them should be stopped, deferred
or processed quickly, besides reviewing and proposing general investment
incentives for investments considered desirable in the Turkish context.



- 39                          ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 5
TURKISH REPUBLIC
PRIME MINISTRY
STATE PLANNING ORGANIZATION
Ankara
Mr. Robert S. McNamara                                           February / 7 / 1980
President
World Bank
Washington D. C.
Dear Mr. McNamara:
January 1980 Economic Program
& Medium-Term Economic Policies
1.       Earlier this month, my senior colleagues and I explained to you and
your colleagues, the comprehensiveness of the economic program put into effect
on January 24, 1980 by my Government. Our analysis of the deep-rooted causes
of the economic difficulties facing Turkey, the structural changes which are
needed to resolve them, the key macro-economic areas on which we must focus
to bring about these essential structural changes, the details of the measures
taken through the said Program, and the basic economic philosophy and the
directions in which we intend to bring about these structural changes in the
medium-term, are reflected in the attached documents entitled Economic
Stabilization Program of Turkey (January 24, 1980) and A Position Paper on the
Medium Term Development Problems and Prospects of Turkey (January 1980).*
2.       I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to reiterate the
basic policy objectives underlying the January 1980 Program and the major
changes that have been initiated through it, which we intend to follow-up con-
sistently in the future to bring about the structural changes that underlie our
philosophy.
New Economic Approach
3.       This Program is a radical departure from past practices.  It has been
formulated with the basic truth in mind that unless some substantial and far-
reaching measures are taken and followed through to correct the fundamental
problems adversely affecting Turkish economic development, stagnation would
set in as a permanent feature of our economy. I am confident that the com-
prehensive and far-reaching nature of these measures and policies, and our
determination to follow through with them now and over the medium-term, will
earn international support which is so necessary to ensure their success. The
major policy objectives which underlie my Government's determination to give
the economy a major reorientation, are essentially as follows:
(a) Reliance on economic planning up to micro levels and adminis-
trative controls to realise planned targets and objectives needs to be shed,
and replaced by greater reliance on market mechanisms and forces;
(b) Curbing of inflation has more importance and greater priority
than the attainment of higher growth rates in the current situation;
(c) Import substitution and protection oriented policies, which
resulted in bias against exports in favor of the domestic market, must give
way to those which encourage both our public and private sectors to improve
productivity and, to the extent feasible, be internationally competitive;
* Available in Project File.



- 40 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
(d)  The fulcrum of our development policy should be to correctly
set the rate of exchange and operate an effective exchange rate policy to
ensure that our foreign trade orientation changes to one where Turkey
should rely heavily in future on export earnings and other foreign currency
earning activities, including workers remittances, private foreign invest-
ment, tourism and transfer of savings from abroad;
(e) Reform of the SEE sector is needed so that it no longer
constitutes a drain on the Government's budget, nor its investment programs
continue to be one of the basic causes of inflationary pressures;
(f) Since one of the most alarming features of our economy is the
decrease in domestic savings as a percent of GDP, domestic resource mobil-
ization efforts stressing reliance on taxes, augmentation of public and
household savings and greater reliance on the banking system and financial
markets, needs to be substantially increased;
(g) Utilization of existing productive capacity and essential new
investments stressing exports and employment or those removing critical infra-
structure bottlenecks must be made, with due consideration to the scarcity of
resources.
Structural Reforms Initiated Through January 1980 Program
4.       I would like to emphasize that it is in order to initiate and bring
about in the medium-term, a fundamental structural change in our economy and
the policies to accomplish it, that through the January 1980 Program we took
several measures in the following key areas: (a) a rational exchange rate policy;
(b) policies geared to increasing exports and encouraging foreign investments;
(c) reform of the SEE sector to improve its efficiency and shift Turkey's orien-
tation in a manner designed to encourage our private sector for both manufac-
turing and exports; (d) policies to mobilize savings and better allocate
resources, using market forces and incentives; and (e) formulation and pursuit
of a rational external debt management policy.
5.       I do not wish to dwell on the details of the measures. These are
reflected in the attached documents and have been fully explained by us to you
and your staff. I would however like to pinpoint here, the basic structural
changes which this Program has sought to make and which it is my Government's
determination to vigorously pursue, now and over the medium-term:
(a)  As the documents state in various places, exchange rate modific-
ations taking into account the rate of inflation in Turkey and that of her
trading partners, are to be relied upon by Turkey to carn foreign exchange,
to make Turkish industry and agriculture competitive a-.d to reduce future
pressures on the balance of payments. This is a fu '-I mental departure from
past policies, under which the parity of the TL was not being adjusted
adequately and in time.
(b) Through the exchange rate mechar4sm and several incentive schemes,
including an interim arrangement to provide c.po-:t risk insurance coverage and
term credits and working capital to exporters, a new "outward" orientation to
foreign markets rather than an inward orientation to domestic markets as in the
past, has been clearly affirmed. Steps have been taken to reduce "protection
quotas" in import lists, and as the attached documents affirm, it will be
Turkish policy to gradually move away from a system of industrial protection
based on quotas.



ANNEX IV
- 41 -                         Page 3 of 5
(c) A major reorientation away from the State sector is clearly
enunciated as a matter of policy; our intention is to rely on market forces
and not administrative fiats, to stimulate the private sector, while opening
Turkey to foreign investments in industry, agriculture and oil through far-
reaching incentives. These constitute a drastic change of policy direction,
since in the ;ast, the public sector was favored, planning and controls
reached to micro levels, and foreign investments were in practice not en-
couraged.
(d) Through artificially controlled low prices, through budgetary
subsidies towards operating deficits and through Central Bank borrowings to
finance their investments, the SEE sector has been a major drain on the
economy in recent years. Policy measures taken and policy directions embod-
ied in the attached documents, aim to expose SEEs to market forces, so they
can fend for themselves to cover their operating costs and generate funds for
their future investments. This is another structural change in Turkish economic
philosophy, which will inevitably have a major beneficial medium-term effect
on Turkey's development.
(e) M4easures to increase savings will have to be taken on every front,
namely the budget, SEEs, private sector and foreign capital.  The Government is
determined to generate future revenues increasingly through major tax efforts,
including improved tax administration and the restructuring and rationalization
of the tax system. This is another major change of policy, since there has not
been a major tax effort during the last 8 years.
(f) Turkey so far believed in fixed interest rates for lending in
various sectors, because of its policy of channelling resources to those sectors
considered important for Turkey's development. While the interest rates for
lending have now been increased for all sectors by only 2 percent, a major
policy change which the attached documents highlight, is the liberalization of
the interest rate regime achieved by allowing the borrower and his bank to
negotiate rates for lending beyond 5 years and for deposits beyond 4 years;
(g) The Government has not only confirmed its determination to contain
investment in 1980 and future years to available fiscal resources, but also to
make further investments according to the criteria stated in para. 3(g) above;
indeed, we are already reviewing ongoing projects to see whose implementation
should be stopped, slowed down or accelerated.
(h) The Government is taking steps to articulate a rational external
debt management policy, so as to seek realistic rescheduling of existing debts
and undertake prudent borrowing for its future investments.
Further Steps To Foster Structural Changes
6.       In the implementation of these structural changes, we have set the
following objectives and targets over the short- and the medium-term:
(a)  Our key objective,to restore strength to our balance of payments
and earn foreign exchange, will be to attain a 25 percent annual growth in
current terms in our industrial and agricultural exports,       and in any case
through continued policy measures on the aforementioned lines to achieve at
least a real export growth averaging 10 percent per annum from 1980 to 1983;



-42-                           ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 5
(b) Through our January 1980 package we have already established on
an interim basis, a fund to cover export credit risk insurance and provide
priority access to foreign exchange, term credits and working capital to
public and private sector firms which could achieve greater export earnings.
We propose to review, before the end of October 1980, the efficacy of these
interim arrangements and should we determine that different or more permanent
arrangements are necessary, we will take appropriate action. In addition,
by that time we expect to have completed our review of the institutional
arrangements to promote the further development of our traditional and non-
traditional export products and commodities.
(c) As indicated in the Position Paper, we have taken and will
continue to take measures reflecting an optimal trade-oriented policy, removing
bias against exports, establishing domestic equilibrium prices for basic goods
in line with world prices, and eliminating the general severe'rationing of
foreign currency. Turkish import regulations have already been greatly relaxed,
quantitative restrictions largely reduced and the rates of import guarantee
bonds decreased. However, to determine a comprehensive approach towards the
implementation of our basic policy to rationalize the protection system for
Turkish industry, we are taking steps to commence by the end of April 1980, a
study for the purpose of introducing a more rational protection and incentive
system based on tariffs. We expect to complete the study in about one year,
and subsequently introduce it. We would envisage that the rationalized protec-
tion system will be in place by 1984. Indeed, my Government would appreciate
the Bank's support for this study.
(d) The objectives of our-external debt management policy are:
(i) substantial improvement of the repayment profile of rescheduled short-term
and medium-term debts,and the containment of our short-term indebtedness over
the medium to no more than the present level, so as to alleviate the heavy debt
servicing burden over the next five years; and (ii) securing of new external
credits on as long-term and concesuional basis as possible, since such credits
are essential to completing ongoing projects and undertaking new priority ones.
However, for further improvements in, and refinement of, this policy, we have
already initiated a comprehensive study on external debt management which we
expect to complete before the end of October 1980.
(e) To achieve a decisive and lasting success in the medium term and
re-establishing a firm foundation for viable economic development, there is
need for Parliamentary acts, as stated in our Position Paper, to augment
domestic mobilization through changes in the tax laws with the aim of: improving
income distribution for the benefit of low income groups by restructuring the
tax rates and increasing the level of exemptions; increasing public revenues
by closing loopholes which presently allow evasion, and eliminating the effects
of inflationary erosion of lumpsum taxes. Against this background, the elim-
ination of the overall deficit financing of the public sector, which the
January 1980 Program seeks to achieve for the current year, will continue to
be an important objective of future budgets.
(f) The use of interest rate policy as a flexible tool for mobil-
izing savings and allocating them, is recognized in our January 80 Program and
will continue to be used for this purpose. As the Bank is aware, Turkey has
also completed a Financial Sector Study,which amongst other matters also
reviews the important role played by the structure of interest rates in the
development process. We have therefore already invited a mission to visit
in March 80, to discuss the tentative findings of this Study so that our
experts can make detailed proposals for implementation or further studies as
appropriate. By mid-1980, we also expect to complete a review of our measures,



43-                          ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 5
in addition to those we have already taken, to encourage increases in
household savings and time deposits.
(g) As stated in our Position Paper, control of inflation is more
important at present than the attainment of a higher growth. In recognition
of this, we intend to insure that in our future Annual Investwc-nt Program, the
level of annual investment is rigo=susly tailored to the projected availability
of scarce resources each year and meets the criteria mentioned earlier in
this letter. These considerations related to the size and quality of invest-
ments programs, have already been reflected in the Annual Program for the
preceding years as well as that for 1980. I wish to reiterate that commencing
from 1980, should domestic and foreign exchange actually available fall short
of those estimated in the Annual Investment Program each year the available
resources will be channelled to those projects having the highest priority
according to that criteria, and the list of which will be provided separately
to the Bank.
7.       This letter summarizes the essence of the Government's new economic
policy objectives, designed to bring about essential structural changes in the
medium-term in the key areas of our economy, in order that Turkey may have a
sound and viable economic growth. The Government is determined to take all
appropriate and supplementary measures for the success of our January 1980
program and these policies. To assist us in achieving these fundamental
objectives, we are counting on the continued support of the international
financial and commercial banking community, including the World Bank, both
through project loans and additional program assistance. It is our hope that
the World Bank would not only support these efforts through the provision of
a second Program Loan in the coming weeks, but also through other program
assistance, as appropriate, during the 1979-1983 period. In this context, we
realize that due to changing domestic and international economic conditions,
revisions and adjustments will need to be made in the overall strategies, which
we expect to discuss with the World Bank as part of our continuing periodic
dialogue on major economic matters. I hardly need to stress that substantial
financial support from the Bank, will considerably assist Turkey in achieving
its objective of sustained economic growth on a sound and viable basis.
Yours faithfully
v, 
urgut Ozal
Undersecretary, Prime Ministry
and
Acting Undersecretary
State Planning Organization



ANNEX V
- 44 -                    Pagel. of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK.LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1979)
Loan and
Credit                                                            (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number    Year        Borrower                  Purpose            Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Eighteen  loans and twelve credits fully disbursed                 383.0    160.2
748-TU    1971  Republic of Turkey    Education                     13.5                  3.9
844-TU    1972  Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Water Supply         37.0                  9.5
324-TU    1972  Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Urban Development               2.3        0.7
330-TU    1972  Republic of Turkey    Livestock II                            16.0        0.2
883-TU    1973  Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas               44.0                 20.7
892-TU    1973  Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Power District    14.0                     0.5
893-TU    1973  Turkish State Railway Railway Project               46.7                  3.5
957-TU    1974  Republic of Turkey    Antalya Forestry              40.0                  3.1
1023-TU    1974  TEK/TKI                 Elbistan Power             148.0                 60.6
1024-TU    1974  DYB                     Industry                    40.0                  2.4
1078-TU    1975  TSKB                    Industry                    65.0                  1.0
1130-TU    1975  Republic of Turkey    Rural Development             75.0                 47.0
1248-TU    1976  Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)        Agriculture Credit          54.3                 34.5
1258-TU    1976  State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)     Newsprint                    70.0                 15.9
1265-TU    1976  Republic of Turkey    Livestock III                 21.5                 16,2
1194-TU    1976  TEK                    Power Transmission II        56.0                 26,0
1310-TU    1976  Republic of Turkey    Tourism                       26.0                 23.4
1379-TU    1977  DYB                     Industry                    70.0                 53.2
1430-TU    1977  TSKB                    Industry                    74.0                 28.5
1585-TU    1978  Republic of Turkey    Northern Forestry             86.0                 84.9
1586-TU    1978  Republic of Turkey    Livestock IV                  24.0                 24.0
1606-TU    1978  Republic of Turkey    Erdemir Steel Stage II        95.0                 94.6
1627-TU    1978  Republic of Turkey    Program Loan                 150.-0                 6.3
S-13-TU    1978  Republic of Turkey    Oil Recovery                   2.5                  1.7
1741-TU    1979  Republic of Turkey    Ports Rehabilitation          75.0                 75,0
1742-TU    1979  Republic of Turkey    Grain Storage                 85.0                 85.0
1748-TU    1979  TSKB                    Industry                    60.0                 60.0
1754-TU    1979  TSKB                   Private Sector Textiles /a 65.0                  65.0
1755-TU    1979  SYKB                   Private Sector Textiles ta 15.0                  15.0
S-15-TU    1979  Republic of Turkey    Ankara Air Pollution
Control /a                 6.0                 6.0
Total                                            1941.5    178.5      868.3
of which has been repaid                        184.1       5.6
Total now outstanding                            1757.4    172.9
Amount sold                    3.6
of which has been repaid    3.6                 - 0 -    - 0 -
Total-now held by Bank and IDA /b               -1757.4    172.9
Total undisbursed /c                              781.4       0.9     782.3
/a Not yet effective.
7; Prior to exchange adjustments.
Ic Excluding loans not yet effective.



ANNEX V
45                      Page 2 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of December 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                            Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligor           Type of Business                   Loan      Equity      Total
1964       TSKB              DFC                                  -        0.92       0.92
1966       SIFAS I           Nylon Yarn                         0.90       0.47       1.37
1967       TSKB II           DFC                                  -        0.34       0.34
1969       TSKB III          DFC                                  -        0.41       0.41
1969       SIFAS II          Nylon Yarn                         1.50       0.43       1.93
1970       Viking I          Pulp and Paper                     2.50       0.62       3.12
1970       ACS               Glass                             10.00       1.58      11.58
1971       NASAS             Aluminum                           7.00       1.37       8.37
1971       SIFAS III         Nylon Yarn                         0.75         -        0.75
1971       Viking II         Pulp and Paper                       -        0.05       0.05
1972       SIFAS IV          Nylon Yarn                           -        0.52       0.52
1972       TSKB IV           DFC                                  -        0.43       0.43
1973       TSKB V            DFC                               10.00         -       10.00
1973       Akdeniz           Tourism                            0.33       0.27       0.60
1974       Borusan           Steel Pipes                        3.60       0.44       4.04
1974       AKSA              Textiles                          10.00         -       10.00
1975       Kartaltepe        Textiles                           1.30         -        1.30
1975       Sasa              Nylon Yarn                        15.00         -       15.00
1975       Aslan             Cement                            10.60         -       10.60
1975       DOKTAS            Steel                              7.50       1.37       8.87
1975       TSKB              DFC                               25.00       1.22      26.22
1976       NASAS             Aluminum                           1.58         -        1.58
1976       TSKB              DFC                               25.00         -       25.00
1976       Asil Celik        Steel                             12.00       2.20      14.20
1977       Borusan           Steel Pipes                          -        0.08       0.08
1978       DOKTAS            Steel                                -        0.15       0.15
1979       Ege Mosan         Engines for Mopeds                 2.15         -        2.15
1979       ISAS              Motor Vehicles &
Accessories                      8.00       1.40       9.40
1979       Asil Celik        Steel                                -        1.80       1.80
1979       Trakya Cam        Glass                             31.76       4.00      35.76
1980       TSKB              DFC                                 -        1.09        1.09
Total Gross Commitments                            186.47     21.16      207.63
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                        105,93      2.99      108,92
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   80.54     18.17       98.71
Total Undisbursed                                   22.41      5.63       28.04



- 46 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 9
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities and inflation. Implementa-
tion is now proceeding satisfactorily, with equipment procurement progressing
smoothly. Completion of some training institutions, including the Management
Training Institute, has been delayed by contract disputes, however 90 percent
are now complete or almost complete, and remedial actions are being taken by
Government to accelerate completion of the remaining schools. The Government
is also considering alternative steps to formally establish the Management
Training Institute without need for parliamentary action. Training of teachers
for technician schools, adult training centers and practical trade schools has
made considerable progress. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for voca-
tional and technical education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs were completed in early 1979. Substantial improvements
to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full utilization
to be made of the new water sources. A tariff increase was implemented in
March 1979, and a reorganization of the management, accounting and financial
systems is under consideration.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Phase II studies to prepare a
shelter project for Bank financing are under discussion with the Government.
1/   These notes are designecl to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 47 -                           ANNEX V
Page 4 of 9
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The Fattening Subproject is progressing satisfacto3:i3y and all funds
have been committed. The Village Livestock Development Subproject, after
resolution of initial difficulties in recruitment of technicians and gaining
farmer confidence, is now progressing rapidly, with 95 percent of the funds
committed. The project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
Following delays due to difficult rock conditions and inappropriate
tunnelling methods, two diversion tunnels have been completed, about two years
behind appraisal estimate. The upstream coffer dam has also been completed
and work on the main dam and spillway is progressing satisfactorily. The
construction of the irrigation system is progressing, with the system now
ready to transport irrigation water to about 40,000 ha, one third of the
target. On-farm works are progressing slowly, with about 36 percent of the
land leveling, 25 percent of the surface drainage, and 45 percent of the
feeder roads completed. Tile drainage is being delayed until the main drains
are located. Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory except as
regards consultants.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow
procurement action; however, this is now almost completed. Local costs have
increased substantially over appraisal estimates, and foreign costs by 15
percent. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the proposed
reorganization of the company's electricity and transport services have been
completed; a study of its gas operations is under review. IETT's tariffs were
raised twice following the countrywide tariff adjustments made in September
1977 and again by about 35 percent in April 1979; additional increases as a
result of the Government's January 1980 economic package will help cover the
increased project costs and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Over 90 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the remaining loan funds, although project completion
will only be in mid-1980. Despite three tariff increases since the loan was



ANNEX V
- 48 -                             Page 5 of 9
made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in
the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is
hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging
70 to 170 percent, which became effective in January 1980, will improve the
Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization program is making
satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such
as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway, and the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind the revised
schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred,
but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have produced
some improvement. Arrangements have been made to complete the foreign exchange
financing plan, and procurement for the industrial part of the project is well
advanced. Local currency payments for the Akdeniz establishment are also now
being made. Price increases of 127-345 percent in January should enable the
company to meet part of the local currency requirements.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey
have recently resulted in significant improvement of project execution. The
Government's continued provision of adequate local funds for-this high priority
project, and early arrangements to finalize plans to meet the substantial
foreign exchange gap, are likely to maintain project momentum in future. The
Government is reviewing po sible actions to overcome remaining implementation
problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey):  US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory.



- 49 -                            ANNEX V
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1975. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Corum dam has been
completed and the works to divert run-off from 5 nearby watersheds have been
completed. Kumbaba pumping station is ready for testing. Diversion tunnels
for Alaca and Guldercek dams are more than 50 percent completed. DSI and
TOPRAKSU have decided on methods of irrigation to be used in conjunction with
Guldercek dam, and the related design of the conveyance works. The project
extension service and credit components are operating successfully. All three
consultants proposed for the extension service have been employed. Further
construction of village centers is being delayed until a satisfactory plan for
using and maintaining existing centers is drawn up and plans for additional
centers are revised.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976.  Effective Date:  April 21, 1978.  Closing Date:  December 31,
1980.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because
of foreign exchange shortages. Overall project implementation and the rate of
disbursement should improve in the coming period.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export project, are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries sub-loans has
been delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank
(TCZB) has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised
credit program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily.
After considerable delay, consultants will shortly begin to carry out the
study of TCZB's structure and procedures. At the Borrower's request, a
cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of the original
Loan amount of $63 million, allocated for this purpose, were cancelled on May
5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for
training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of UNDP funds
for this purpose.



- 50 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding slowly due to delays in civil works and
procurement caused by insufficient local funds. Recent price increases of
130-345 percent are likely to correct this situation and the project is
expected to start production in early 1981, 2 years behind the appraisal
schedule. Erection of machinery and equipment began in early 1979 and trial
runs are expected to begin in 1980.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are virtually
fully staffed, with all three consultants on post. Preparation of farm devel-
opment plans has been slower than expected; however, substantial numbers of
sub-loan applications have been approved and include a higher proportion than
expected of small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work,
although the pace of overall project implementation is somewhat slower than
expected due to staffing constraints and difficulties in ensuring adequate
inter-ministerial and inter-agency coordination. However, measures to
strengthen the Project Unit and its consultants, the Tourism Bank, are
being taken, and the project is still expected to be completed without major
delays.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
The loan has been fully committed. DYB has a new Director General
but still has severe staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by
recruitment of additional junior staff. It hopes improved contract terms
will enable it to fill more senior positions as needed. The possibility of
expanding its role in the SEE system is under active review.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and 83 percent of the loan has been
committed. TSKB has essentially reached its agreed targets for allocation of
its resources to projects in less developed regions and small and medium-scale



- 51 -                            ANNEX V
Page 8 of 9
labor-intensive enterprises. It has so far been unable to raise resources in
international capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic diffi-
culties, but the interest of several financing sources is anticipated once
conditions permit renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Project implementation has begun and procurement is underway.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV:  US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.  Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project start up has been slower than expected but the milk industry
study is almost complete, and recruitment of technicai specialists for the
project is underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line are underway. Following technical review
by the company's consultants, the fourth blast stove and the third down coiler
have been deferred until a later date. Prices have been substantially
increased in January 1980. Production from existing facilities however, have
been restricted because of the lack of raw materials due to the limited
availability of foreign exchange.
Ln. No. 1627 Import Program: US$150.0 million of November 8, 1978.
Effective Date: November 16, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In accordance with Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement a satisfactory
review of Turkey's export policies and performance was made by the Bank in
April and a determination made to continue disbursements after April 30, 1979.
Disbursements were $149.9 million as of February 15, 1980.
Ln. No. S-13 Bati Raman Engineering: US$2.5 million of November 30, 1978.
Effective Date: February 27, 1979. Closing Date: February 29, 1980.
The engineering study is almost complete and design work for a pilot
project to test the technology is expected to begin in February.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project coordinating committees are in place and functioning
effectively. Preparation of equipment specifications and tender documents is
making excellent progress. UNDP has appointed a project manager to implement
the project related training programs. The port sector planning studies have
been delayed by lack of staff, but steps are being taken to correct this.



- 52 -
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage: US$85 million of July 2, 1979.
Effective Date: January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun.
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60
million of July 12, 1979. Effective Date: October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
TSKB and ITC finalized in November the technical assistance program
for training and export development. Project screening is now underway.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB ($65 million) and 1755 SYKB ($15 million) Private Sector
Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Dates: Not yet effective.
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have prepared the preliminary program for local training.
The additional consultants for technical services and for the extension ser-
vices are being recruited. Revised Action Plans are being prepared.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of
December 12, 1979. Effective Date: Not yet effective. Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Consultants being selected for project studies.



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 7
THE INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL SECTORS
Agriculture
1.        Role in the Economy and Recent Performance.  Turkish development
strategy places emphasis on the lead role of the industrial sector, with the
agricultural sector playing a supporting, though nevertheless substantial,
role. Between 1963 and 1978, the share of agriculture in GDP fell from 38
percent to 23 percent, in employment from 77 percent to 62 percent and in
exports from 77 percent to 62 percent; but it remains the most important
source of employment and exports. It also provides a substantial proportion
of the raw materials for domestic industry.
2.        The long-term trend in agriculture has been one of modest but steady
growth. During the period 1962-78, gross value of agricultural production
(in 1968 constant prices) increased at a compound annual rate of 3.2 percent
compared with 6.8 percent for GDP. With only small changes in the area
cropped and in the cropping pattern, the major factors responsible for this
are improved cultural practices, and increased use of inputs. Between 1970
and 1978, increase in the use of fertilizer was at a dramatic rate of 16
percent per annum, from 430,000 tons of plant nutrients to 1,430,000 tons.
Use plant protection chemicals rose from 51,000 to 68,000 tons. The expansion
in area under irrigated crops was also important, but the production potential
of irrigated areas has been developed only partially.
3.        Until mid-1979, the shortage of foreign exchange had not significantly
affected agricultural production because of previously held stocks and the
high priority accorded to the sector's needs for imported inputs. Fertilizer
used in 1978 was 91 percent of planned levels, with corresponding figures for
imports at 93 percent, and for the 1979 spring season, actual consumption was
79 percent of planned levels, with imports also at 79 percent. Helped by good
weather, 1976-78 were exceptionally good crop years for Turkey; output (mea-
sured in constant 1968 prices) was 8 percent larger in 1976 than in 1975, and
has remained at this relatively high level up to 1978. Indications are that
yields in 1979 will again be high, although the impact of the shortages
of fertilizers and petroleum products are beginning to be felt.
4.        The growth rate of agricultural exports has not been as high as that
of agricultural output because of increasing domestic consumption, which is
partially linked to the fairly rapid growth of population (2.5 percent).
Major agricultural exports include cotton, hazelnuts, tobacco, dried fruits
and recently wheat; and between 1962 and 1978 their foreign exchange earnings
increased by 11 percent per annum. They increased dramatically in 1978 by
about 38 percent, following the Government's special drive to develop exports.



- 54 -                            ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 7
5.        While imports of agricultural commodities have remained low, the
rapid rise in imported inputs has increased the economies dependence on
foreign exchange. Between 1962-78 fertilizer imports increased by 25 percent
annually from $9 million to $300 million. The foreign exchange burden of the
rise in use of fertilizers has been moderated by increasing domestic produc-
tion; however, this in turn has required increased imports of raw materials
which totalled $64 million in 1978 and are expected to rise to about $150
million in 1979 and $230 million in 1980 with the increase in available
capacity and its utilization. Imports of pesticides and their raw materials
cost $64 million in 1978, which are projected to grow to $96 million in 1979
and $106 million in 1980. Thus the import cost of these two items alone in
1979 will absorb about a quarter of the export earnings of the sector.
Development Constraints
6.        With its climatic, soil, water and human resources, Turkey has con-
siderable further potential for expanding crop production, increasing exports
and reducing imports. Considerable increases in growth could be realized if
investments were more efficiently allocated and backed by more coherent price
policies and farmer support services. The past emphasis on large irrigation
schemes which accounted for over half of public investments has had dis-
appointing results; of the command area under public irrigation schemes of
approximately 2.5 million ha, only 1.8 million ha is estimated to be under
irrigated crops and only about half of this is believed to be cropped to
full potential. This is due to delays in completion of on-farm works and
inadequate levels of support services. Excessive plowing of steep hillsides,
severe overgrazing of pastures, and destruction of vegetation on previously
forested land have caused much erosion and deterioration of soil resources.
As much as one-quarter of the total land area needs to be shifted from soil-
depleting to soil-conserving uses to build up soil productivity.
7.        Agricultural price support policy has not been adequately used
for increasing productivity and optimizing resource use. Commodity support
prices have, in the past been set largely on the basis of production costs,
without adequate attention to either the level and structure of domestic
demand and supply on international market conditions. In 1978/79 devaluation
brought them substantially in line with or below export prices as did the
January 1980 devaluation. Nevertheless, the loss in support programs for
wheat, tobacco, meat and fish amounted to TL 5.6 billion ($224 million) in
1978.
8.        Official prices for inputs have remained at low levels which have
led to uneconomic use. Retail prices for fertilizers were increased in 1974,
then reduced substantially in 1975, but were increased substantially (400
percent) in January 1980. Prices of pesticides distributed by the Government
had not changed since 1970 until the January 1980 liberalization measures.
The loss of the agricultural supply organization for fertilizers and pesticides
amounted to TL 11.2 billion ($450 million) in 1978 and is expected to reach
TL 25 billion ($530 million) in 1979. Under the new government policies
these losses are to be substantially reduced in 1980. With the January 1980
devaluation, an export levy has been introduced to collect the effective
agriculture surplus into a price support and Stability Fund, which will be
used to finance fertilizer subsidies.



-55                             ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 7
9.        Credit and extension services do not have adequate resources and
are made up of too many programs which are poorly coordinated to be effective
in meeting the stated objectives of encouraging adoption of new technology,
of improving resource use, and of improving income distribution. Institutional
credit is available for only about half of Turkey's farmers and scarce lending
funds have tended to benefit the larger farms to finance capital intensive
technology. Due to the inability of the Agricultural Bank reaching all
farmers, numerous other agencies have also developed credit programs, and
there is duplication of effort within the Government as well as poor coordina-
tion of policies. The extension service suffers even more from diffusion of
functions; responsibilities for general extension, plant protection and
livestock fall under separate general directorates, resulting sometimes in
conflicting advice to farmers.
10.       Manifested in all the foregoing issues is the basic weakness in the
institutional framework. With responsibility diffused among numerous general
directorates of some six ministries and several specialized agencies, the
Government's capability in analyzing policy options, formulating a coherent
set of policies, and effectively implementing them, has been severely limited.
A new planning unit recently created in the Ministry of Agriculture may help
in resolving some of the weaknesses.
11.       Another issue of concern is the effect of public policies on income
distribution; public investments, price supports, credit and extension have
generally benefitted larger farmers and wealthier regions. Consequently,
there is a widening gap in income levels between regions and farmer groups.
Medium-Term Prospects
12.       The Fourth Five Year Plan (1978-83) calls for a 5.3 percent growth
rate for agriculture, including 5 percent for crop production, and 5.5 percent
for animal production, rates which surpass achievements of the previous
plan periods. Exports are planned to be increased by 6.2 percent per annum.
Imports of vegetable oils and rice are to be eliminated. The planned growth
depends particularly on higher yields of wheat and larger production of cotton
and other industrial crops, fruits, vegetables, sunflower, and feed crops
through extension of area, largely in place of fallow and wheat.
13.       The Plan does not set new objectives for the agricultural sector
but attempts to use some new means to achieve them. The issues and constraints
to growth discussed above are largely institutional in nature and would take
long-term efforts to resolve. However, the plan recognizes shortcomings of
past policies and attempts to tackle them. High priority is still given to
investments in irrigation, but over 80 percent of these expenditures would be
for completion of works. Price policy is to be used increasingly as a means
of controlling the pattern of domestic production consistent with optimal
resource allocation, the structure of domestic demand and international market
conditions. To strengthen institutional capability to implement this, a unit
has been established in the Ministry of Agriculture to formulate price policies
on the basis of analyzing optimal resource use by means of a sector model.



- 56 -                            ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 7
Legislation to permit recovery of costs in minor irrigation works is under
discussion. Water charges were increased in 1977/78 by 400 percent in some
areas. Unfortunately, with high inflation, they have fallen again to levels
below actual operational and maintenance costs. Support prices in 1978/79
show large increases for oil seeds, cotton and other export crops, and rela-
tively small increases for wheat.  With the recent devaluation, most commodity
prices are in line with or lower than international prices and these policies
have contributed to the recent improvement in exports, and to the increase in
output of other crops with consequent reduction of imports, e.g. oilseeds.
The 400 percent increase in the price of fertilizers in January 1980 goes a
long way towards restoring prices to market levels, and is likely to make the
use of fertilizers more efficient. Also, a detailed soil indexing of the
entire country is underway to refine dosage recommendations. In areas where
the study has been completed, substantial savings in application are being
realized. Some improvements are also being introduced in the extension
service.
14.       In view of the constraints discussed above, particularly the weak-
ness of the extension service's ability to deliver new technology and the
constraints on fuel and inputs, the projected growth rates appear optimistic.
Unless unusually favorable weather conditions prevail, growth rates of 3.5
percent in total value of agricultural production, with 3.7 percent for crop
and 3 percent for livestock would be more realistic. This would still be
higher than the long-term growth rate of 3.2 percent achieved during 1962-77,
and would require technological improvements to increase yields of cereals,
sunflower and sugarbeets ancl expansion of irrigation to increase areas under
cotton, pulses, vegetables and other crops. Exports are planned to grow by
about 5 percent annually, and this target may well be achievable. Thus,
agriculture is expected to continue to play a major role as a foreign exchange
earner.
Use of Inputs from Industrial Sources
15.       As in the past, production gains envisaged under the Fourth Plan
depend on greater use of inputs, particularly fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals. The Government's projection of requirements for 1980 shows a need
for $764 million for fertilizers and their raw materials and $106 million for
plant protection chemicals, compared with $425 million and $67 million respec-
tively in 1978. The bulk of the increase in costs is due to price changes;
the increase in quantities is quite modest.
16.       There is actually considerable scope for increasing the use of both
fertilizers (which is presently used on about 61 percent of the planted area)
and of pesticides. Fertilizers affect production of virtually all crops and
are particularly important for increasing wheat yields, which would enable
reduction in area under this crop and allow expansion of higher value export
and forage crops. It is estimated also that for each $1 reduction in imported
fertilizer raw material, there would be a loss in wheat exports by about $3
and in cotton exports by over $6. Higher priority attaches to raw materials
for fertilizers than to finished products, to enable use of existing produc-
tion facilities and because domestic industry would produce a ton of nutrients
from imported raw materials costing about $350 (in 1980) while the import cost



57                              ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 7
of finished fertilizers would be about $520 per nutrient ton. Pesticides
would particularly affect export crops such as cotton. Many chemicals are
not produced in Turkey, and imports of finished products should also be
financed. The domestic pesticides industry is based primarily on imported
technical materials. It has capacity for about 108,000 tons, but actual
production in 1978 was 36,400 tons, providing about half the total domestic
consumption in terms of value and about 44 percent in terms of volume.
B. Manufacturing Industries
Role in the Economy
17.       The growth of manufacturing industries in Turkey during the 15
year period covered by the first three Five Year Plans was relatively rapid at
an average annual rate of about 10 percent, so that their share of GDP was 18
percent in 1977. The sector provides employment for about 11 percent of the
national work force. Manufacturing industries absorbed about 30 percent
of total fixed investment up to 1975; thereafter their share declined to
about 23 percent in 1978, largely as a result of the serious foreign exchange
constraint. The Fourth Plan envisages an increase in the sectoral investment
share to 27 percent.
18.       Traditional Turkish industrial policy has emphasized self suffi-
ciency and import substitution, use of advanced technology and greater depth
of integration in productive processes, with consequent priority for capital-
intensive investments to produce basic and intermediate products as well as
capital goods. Exports have generally been given a secondary role. The
principal policy instruments used have been large public investments in State
Economic Enterprises and generous incentives combined with high levels of
protection for private investments. These policies have yielded many positive
achievements, including high growth rates, domestic production of important
basic and intermediate goods based on local natural resources, adaptation of
modern technology and training of a skilled labor force, as well as some
dispersal of modern industries to underdeveloped regions. But they have also
resulted in some major and persistent problems. Excessive and unsystematic
protection against imports, combined with other incentives) has led to the
establishment of a number of uncompetitive industries which have been wasteful
of domestic capital as well as imported inputs, have neglected employment
potential and overlooked export possibilities. It has taken a foreign exchange
shortage of crisis proportions since 1977, and a precipitate decline in the
average level of capacity utilization, to gain recognition for the need to
shift emphasis in favor of export-oriented production.
19.       The share of manufactures in Turkey's total exports has increased
from about 17 percent in the late 1960s to about 32 percent at present.
The most rapid growth of exports occurred in 1970-73; but it was confined to
a few products, e.g. processed foods, leather products and textiles. Exports



ANNEX VI
- 58 -                            Page 6 of 7
of manufactured products still account for only 6 to 7 percent of sectoral
output, which is a very low share in comparison with other countries of
similar size and level of development.
Recent Performance and the Present Situation
20.       Industrial production is estimated to have grown only very little
in 1978 and the first half of 1979. Capacity utilization in 1978 has been
estimated at about 53 percent, compared with 56 percent for 1977. A few
essential industries were able to increase their output, e.g., nitrogenous
fertilizers, plant protection chemicals, and some others were able to maintain
or slightly increase output with the help of export earnings, e.g., commercial
vehicles and consumer durables; but most industrial firms suffered declines
in output. The worst affected were the engineering and metal fabricating
industries, particularly in the private sector, as supplies of iron and
steel, aluminum, copper and other essential inputs declined; and these indus-
tries provide almost half of manufacturing employment. Consumption of steel
has declined by about 10 percent per annum in the past two years, and pros-
pects for 1979 are also poor, as imports in the first eleven months were
only about 75 percent of 1978 levels. Aluminum supplies have fallen by about
the same extent; domestic production had to be cut back because of shortage of
electric power, and imports could not be financed except by exporters. Supply
of copper was even more restricted, as imports in early 1979 were reduced to a
level of about 50 percent of 1978, and domestic production has fallen by about
30 percent. Petrochemical industries had to cut back production on account of
shortages of imported materials, with consequential curtailment of the output
of downstream units also. Phosphoric fertilizer production also fell.
Short-term Prospects and Implications for Export Performance
21.       While the Fourth Five Year Plan envisages a substantial expansion
of industrial output and investment during 1979 and 1980, actual conditions
in Turkey are not conducive to this. The current shortage of fuel, related
to the sharp increase in petroleum prices, compounds earlier difficulties
in maintaining output. The Government therefore intends to continue its
policy of selective support for industries that are essential for the domestic
economy and those that have export potential. In the former category, State
Economic Enterprises and a few private sector industries which supply essen-
tial consumer goods are expected to maintain production levels, and even
increase output to some extent, in 1979 and 1980. It is the latter group,
i.e., exporting industries that provide hope for better performance.
22.       The need to export and to secure a larger market share under competi-
tive conditions abroad is now widely recognized in industrial and trading
circles as well as in Government. In 1978-79, powerful incentives for exports
have been provided by the Government through permission to exporters to retain
50 percent of their export earnings for their own import needs, preferential
access to credit for exporting firms, and devaluation. Moreover, and more
important, the basic policy changes needed to encourage structural adjustments
favoring export orientation have been set in train with the January 1980



ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 7
economic program, although strong coordination and direction will be required
to see them through. Exchange rate changes, which had been delayed, infre-
quent and therefore large, and had not consistently maintained the competitive
status of Turkish exports in their major markets in the past, is superseded by
a policy by Government to maintain rates at competitive leve'>. The investment
strategy embodied in public documents such as the Fourth Five Year Plan, the
Annual Investment Program for 1979 and (with exceptions) the current investment
incentives, was largely a continuation of earlier development strategy. How-
ever, the new Government has responded to current priorities through a major
adjustment of actual expenditures on individual projects to match overall
resource availability. A new institutional arrangement for development of
export policy and strategy has been announced and an Export Stabilization Fund
created which, among other functions, will provide for export risk insurance.
For the longer term, substantial changes will be needed in the pattern of
incentives and levels of protection for various categories of industrial
activities to alter the historic bias favoring domestic markets, and to keep
exports at least equally attractive.



-60-                              ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
TURKEY'S IMPORT REGIME AND LICENSING
1.        General.  Turkey's imports are regulated by a regime introduced in
1958 and changed in several important details since. The State Planning Orga-
nization in consultation with other ministries prepares annual import programs
which form part of the economy-wide Annual Programs. The Ministry of Commerce
is primarily responsible for trade control, but relies on Chambers of Commerce
and Industry for advice, and on other ministries for substantive approval, in
respect of a large proportion of import allocations. The Ministry of Customs
and Monopolies deals with customs and other similar duties on imports, in
collaboration with the Ministry of Finance. Final allocation of foreign
exchange is controlled by the Central Bank in line with priorities and instruc-
tions given by Government.
2.        The most distinctive features of the import regime are:  a significant
proportion of imports is free of restriction in normal times; non-essential
imports are excluded through the use of positive lists; and complete quantita-
tive protection of domestic production against foreign competition is provided,
in that imports are permitted only to the extent Turkish output cannot meet
demand. The stages of the import licensing process are relatively numerous,
but well understood, and the time involved for typical transactions is not
excessive, except under the quota list with its semi-annual cycle (see below).
3.        Until the 1977 foreign exchange crisis, an import license from the
Ministry of Commerce was sufficient for a successful application for approval
of a foreign exchange transfer by the Central Bank. Up to early 1979, Ministry
of Finance approval of special foreign exchange transfers was the effective
allocation device, although the Ministry of Commerce continued to issue
import licenses. The Ministry of Finance had to give overwhelming weight
to short-term considerations, especially in cases where imports are not
self-financing, while the import regime was based on longer term development
considerations.
4.        With the 1979 import program, a new procedure was introduced to
tighten up the licensing process, while introducing some automaticity to the
allocation of foreign exchange. A global limit was put on the import lists
and specific items were assigned to specific ministries for allocation. Each
ministry was, in turn, assigned a global total for its items, for which it
developed its own priority list. After the first quarters results, a review
was made of actual performance and the interministerial and interlist allo-
cations adjusted to keep within the overall targets and priorities. To intro-
duce a degree of automaticity to the allocation of available foreign exchange,
commercial banks were allowed to keep a portion of their foreign exchange
receipts and use these for certain high priority imports and for special
schemes in support of exports without prior approval of the Central Bank.
The major portion of the country's official foreign exchange earnings, however,
continued to be allocated by the Central Bank.



ANNEX VII
- 61 -                            Page 2 of 4
5.        By July 1979, a more orderly procedure for allocating the Central
Bank's foreign exchange had evolved which attempted to balance short-term
needs with longer term considerations. Monthly, the Central Bank prepares
an estimate of its coming months cash inflows and fixed payment requirements
and the balr"-:e available for allocation to imports. The SPO, based on
F          information provided by the various ministries, maintains a record of indus-
trial capacity utilization, shortages and requirements. Based on the antici-
pated amounts and the projected needs, an interministerial committee decides
which items should be given priority for finance in the coming month. Progress
during the month is monitored daily and adjustments made as necessary. Details
of the import licensing and foreign exchange allocation system is provided
below. The January 1980 program substantially relaxes the import regime. The
portion of items on the liberalized lists have been increased, quantitative
restrictions reduced and the percentage of foreign exchange retained by the
commercial banks increased from 37 percent to 80 percent.
Import Licensing
6.        Import Lists.  Turkey's imports are grouped, for the most part, into
three lists: the Liberalized I, Liberalized II, and Quota lists published in
the Annual Import Program. The existence of the. liberalized lists has led to
imports exceeding the program targets in some years, but by 1978, this had been
brought under control by the process described above. All remaining imports
are financed by project credits or bilateral clearing arrangements. Imports
in 1978 were $4,599 million as against a program of $5,000 million. The evolu-
tion of the balance among these lists is shown below for the period since 1970.
1970     1974      1977      1978    1979
Imports (US$ million)                 948    3,777      5,796    4,599   5,000 /1
Percentage falling under:
Liberalized I and II               38.6      66.8      70.0      69.0    61.0
Quota                              20.3      18.5      20.3      17.0    20.0
Project credits                    11.9       6.2       5.2       8.5    15.0
Other (bilateral)                  29.2       8.5       4.5       5.5      4.0
/1   As proposed originally in the Annual Program in January 1979.
7.        The Liberalized I list ($100 million for 1979) comprises raw mate-
rials and spares which are non-competitive with Turkish production.  In normal
times, there are no restrictions as to the quantity and quality of such com-
modities that may be imported; some of them are also covered by EEC agreements
forbidding quantitative restrictions on their import from the EEC. The
importer pays a 40 percent guarantee deposit and a manufacturer 25 percent.
He then receives from the Ministry of Commerce an import license valid for
two months. When the full TL equivalent of the value of his imports is lodged
with the Central Bank, the latter in normal times would promptly issue the
necessary foreign exchange authorization, on a first-come-first-served basis.
The administrative process under the Liberalized I list from application to
authorization would normally take about one week. This list was expanded under
the January 1980 program.



- 62 -                            ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
8.        The Liberalized II list ($2,950 million for 1979) comprises speci-
fied commodities competitive with Turkish production. It also has a general
category for the import needs of exporters, including raw materials, inter-
mediate goods and packaging materials. Import licenses are issued by the
Ministry of Commerce, after substantive approval of the ministry responsible
for the particular commodity or industry, to which applications are made: in
most cases this is the Ministry of Industry, while the remaining appli-
cations are examined by the Ministries of Agriculture, Energy, or Health.
Public sector imports also need the approval of the Ministry of Finance.
The Ministry of Industry grants approval to the applications of industrial-
ists for imports for their own use before those of importers (merchants).
It prorates available supplies for industrialists in proportion to their
production capacity, recent performance and export potential; importers
receive allocations on a first-come first-served basis while supplies last,
and pay 40 percent prior guarantee deposit for importers and 25 percent for
manufacturers. Certain items on the Liberalized II list are covered by
agreements with the EEC, under which quantitative restrictions on their
import from the EEC are not allowed. Although this latter list is no longer
published, its provisions remain in effect. The administrative process
under the Liberalized II list would normally require 4-5 weeks from applica-
tion to granting of an import license. Until recently, however, corresponding
foreign exchange transfers for many items were being held up, although the new
arrangements for commercial bank retention may ease this situation.
9.        The Quota List ($1,000 million in 1979) consists of two main groups.
The first provides binding dollar amounts for specific items which are con-
sidered less essential or whose annual need is known with precision and
for which imports can be reasonably made semi-annually. The amounts are
divided between manufacturers and importers and specific licenses are issued
semi-annually. The second group consists of allocations to broad general
categories, such as $290 million in 1979 for needs for private sector invest-
ments. These licenses are issued as needed on the recommendation of the
ministry responsible and are designed to give some flexibility to the system.
As with the liberalized lists, consideration is given to the installed capacity
of the firm, past levels of imports, and the possibility of exports in decid-
ing which licenses to approve.
10.       The operation of the import licensing system allows a considerable
degree of discretion to the responsible ministries.  Major revisions are pub-
lished as necessary (15 in 1978) but numerous minor adjustments are made in
response to circumstances such as changes in capacity due to strikes or break-
down. The quota list group one, since it is allocated semi-annually, has been
used to fine tune the system. Following the first quarterly review in 1979,
the allocations to quota group one were reduced by about $50 million to allow
for increases in the liberalized lists. Moreover, because of the shortage of
funds, each ministry has worked out lists of priorities within the items for
which it is responsible. Items on the priority list are more quickly approved,
while those off the list are scrutinized more closely and reduced or even
refused. Thus in the current circumstances, the published program provides
more of an agreed framework for the more detailed day to day licensing activi-
ties. The priority lists currently cover about 15 percent of the value of the
liberalized list items. Since petroleum accounts for another 35 percent, about
50 percent of these items are more tightly controlled than in previous years



- 63-                            ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
Allocation of Foreign Exchange
11.       In part because of outstanding licenses and other commitments, the
new procedure described above still yields more demands for foreign exchange
transfers than is currently available. Thus a second stage of iLlocation of
actual funds available was evolved to deal with this problem. The key feature
of the system as of July 1979 was to separate imports into two categories:
those where foreign exchange is more or less automatically provided by giving
priority access to the foreign exchange resources of the commercial banks,
and those where Central Bank control is retained.
12.       Since January 1979, the 11 authorized commercial banks have been
allowed to retain a portion of their foreign exchange inputs for certain
specified uses so long as their foreign exchange balances do not exceed $25
million or 10 percent of their annual foreign exchange input, whichever is
less. The proportion retained was increased from about 70 percent of foreign
exchange receipts to 80 percent in January 1980.
13.       A portion of the export earnings transferred to the Central Bank
is is deposited into a special Export Promotion Fund where it may be used to
meet those priority needs of exporters supported under various schemes which
have not been met by the resources of the commercial banks. In practice, this
fund has been used primarily to meet other urgent needs under the arrangements
for allocation of Central Bank resources described in paragraph 5 above.
14.       The amount of foreign exchange an exporter of manufactured goods or
mining products is allowed to "retain" to pay for imported inputs needed by
him or his suppliers was increased in May 1979 from 25 percent to 50 percent,
as shown in the table, which is a further inducement to export. Based on the
expected level of such exports, as much as $250 to $300 million of imports may
qualify for payment through this scheme in 1979.



