, OFFICIAL
()c=u   TIFD O)C bW W-T S  LOAN NUMER I!~ TU
Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated      KoCL, 1980


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      ,AAL 64-                1980, between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is undertaking a comprehensive
economic program for the short-term stabilization, the medium-
term recovery and long-term development of its economy;
(B) In furtherance thereof, the Borrower intends, inter
alia, to implement economic measures summarized in the letter
dated February 7, 1980, addressed to the Bank by the Borrower;
and
(C) The Borrower has requested the Bank's assistance in
achieving the above objectives and increasing the utilization of
its productive capacity in industry and agriculture through the
provision of part of the foreign ezchange required to finance
essential imports of raw materials and intermediate goods as
specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Lt" and "Lira" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(b) "Project Account" means the account established in
T.C. Merkez Bankasi pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(c) "T.C. Merkez Bankasi" means Tiirkiye Cumhuriyet Merkez
Bankasi, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey established
and operating pursuant to Law No. 1211 promulgated in the Official
Gazette of the Republic of Turkey No. 13409 of January 26, 1970 as
amended;
(d) "SEE" means a State Economic Enterprise, or a corpora-
tion, enterprise or entity, 50% or more of whose capital is owned
or controlled by the Borrower or any of its administrative sub-
divisions, agencies or instrumentalities; and
(e) "Private Sector Firm" means a firm, corporation, part-
nership or any other manufacturing entity 50% or more of whose
capital is owned or controlled by persons or entities other than
the Borrower, its administrative subdivisions, agencies or instru-
mentalities, including SEEs.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of the imported goods included in
such Schedule.
Section 2.03. Ex.,ept as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1981,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) T.C. Merkez Bankasi is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall entrust T.C. Merkez Bankasi with responsibility
for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation, and
the preparation of withdrawal applications, under the Loan, which
withdrawal applications shall to the extent practicable be con-
solidated so as to provide for withdrawal of at least $25,000
equivalent. Each such withdrawal application shall be submitted to
the Bank with a statement of the cumulative amount claimed for
withdrawal from the Loan Account on account of expenditures made
or to be made by Private Sector Firms under such application and
all earlier applications submitted to the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or cause the Project


﻿-4-
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall open an account (the
Project Account) with T.C. Merkez Bankasi and shall deposit in
said account in accordance with its usual financial procedures,
upon each withdrawal from the Loan Account, the equivalent in
Liras of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan
Account (such equivalent to be determined as of the respective
date of such withdrawals). The amounts so deposited in the Project
Account shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures included
in the Borrower's development programs.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction to the
generality of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications
from the eligible importers issue, or cause to
be issued, such import licenses as shall be
required to carry out the Project, taking into
account, in light of inter alia installed capacity,
recent performance and export potential of the
applicant of such license, the extent to which
domestic production of such commodities cannot meet
domestic demand for such commodities and the need
to allocate import licenses equitably among Turkish
firms both public and private;
(b) make available, or cause to be made available,
to the licensed importers promptly as needed,
such amounts of foreign exchange as shall be
required to import goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; and
(c) take all such action as shall be necessary or
convenient to facilitate the timely importation
of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 3.04. From April 1, 1980 until March 31, 1981,
the Borrower shall, promptly as needed, provide to eligible
manufacturers out of resources other than the proceeds of the
Loan not less than the equivalent of $30,000,000 in foreign
exchange on account of expenditures for spare parts.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall allocate not less than the
equivalent of $65,000,000 of the proceeds of the Loan and not less
than the equivalent of $10,000,000 of the foreign exchange
resources referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement to Private
Sector Firms.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes that adequate
provision will be made for the insurance of the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the p-ogress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to je derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, their procurement, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities benefiting from the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds and their procurement.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the economic program and the
measures referred to in paragraphs (A) and (B) of the Preamble to
this Agreement.
(b) In any event, such exchanges of views shall take place
at least (i) once during the period from the date hereof through
July 31, 1980 and (ii) once during the period from August 1, 1980
through December 31, 1980. For the purpose of such exchanges of
views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at least two weeks
in advance a report containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; such reports shall contain inter alia:


﻿-6-
(i) an account of actual export performance in relation
to the targets established under the economic
program and the measures referred to in paragraphs
(A) and (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement;
(ii) the status of external borrowing and plans for
external debt management in the near term;
(iii) the status of domestic resource mobilization
effort, especially in respect of the important
objective of eliminating the overall public sector
deficit in the 1980 and future budgets and the
performance of State Economic Enterprises; and
(iv) the projected levels of public sector investments
taking into consideration the financial resources
available.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest anG other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-7-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by T.C. Merkez Bankasi or
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause its departments
and agencies responsible for carrying out the Project to register
in their respective accounts all their receipts and payments in
such a manner so as to identify all such receipts and payments for
or in connection with the Project, all in accordance with sound
accounting principles consistently applied.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date A              /9t       , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.01: of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel
Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
MALIYE
Hazine
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By )S        Aes
Art 4     Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported commod-
ity groups to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                    Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Agriculture                                      100,000,000
(a) Materials for produc-
tion of fertilizers
phosphate rock
phosphoric acid
ammonia
sulphuric acid
sulphur
potassium chloride
pyrite
(b) Plant protection chemicals
and their raw materials
(2) Industry                                         100,000,000
(a) Steel industry
billet
coil
tinplate
tin
other steel products, including
alloy and special steels for
engineering industries, such
as machinery, commercial ve-
hicles, internal combustion
engines, pumps and valves


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                   Dollar Equivalent)
(b) Copper
concentrate
metal
(c) Aluminum
ingot
wire
(d) Petrochemicals and chemicals
feedstocks
intermediates
other chemicals and dyes for cotton,
woollen and synthetic textiles,
leather tanning, plastics, adhe-
sives, paints and glass
TOTAL            200,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(i) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of
the Borrower;
(ii) payments made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000 may be made
on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after February 1, 1980;
(iii) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof;


﻿- 11 -
(iv) expenditures for goods procured under invoices for
less than $5,000 equivalent; and
(b) no withdrawals shall be made and no commitments shall
be entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in
respect of expenditures to be financed under this Agreement after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account and the amount of commitments entered into by the
Bank upon the Borrower's request in respect of expenditures
to be financed under the Loan shall have reached the amount of
$100,000,000 equivalent and $150,000,000 equivalent, each time,
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after the exchanges of views
which shall take place pursuant to Section 3.08 (b) (i) and (ii)
of this Agreement, respectively, with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the economic program and the
measures referred to in paragraphs (A) and (B) of the Preamble to
this Agreement and in particular of the measures described in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, if the Bank has re -
sonably estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to
any Category will be insufficient to finance the expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate
to the respective Category, to the extent required to meet such
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
4.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the provision of foreign exchange
required for the importation of raw materials and intermediate
goods described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement in order to
improve the Borrower's productive capacity in industry and agri-
culture as part of the Borrower's economic program and the mea-
sures referred to in paragraphs (A) and (B) of the Preamble to
this Agreement, including those described in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
Beginning December 1, 1984
Through December 1, 1996                   7,690,000
On June 1, 1997                             7,750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Frepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            2.90%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     5.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                     7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                     8.25%


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 3 thereof, goods to be
imported under a single contract estimated to cost $5,000,000
equivalent or more, shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $5,000,000 shall be awarded through normal
trade channels on the basis of normal procurement procedures of
the purchaser of such goods.
3.   Contracts for commonly traded commodities may be awarded on
the basis of price quotv'ions available from- organized inter-
national commodity markets.
4.   With respect to each contract costing $250,000 equivalent or
more awarded pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 above and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract;
in respect of contracts referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, in addition thereto, a description of advertising and
tendering procedures followed, the analysis of the respective bids
and recommendations for award and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 5
Periodic Review
In reviewing the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the economic program and the measures referred to
in paragraphs (A) and (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the
Borrower and the Bank shall focus in particular on:
1.   the adequacy of export promotion policies and administra-
tive measures to facilitate attainment of an average real growth
of exports of not less than 10% per annum over the period of 1979
through 1983, including:
(a) review by October 31, 1980 of the efficiency of the
interim arrangements established by the Borrower to cover export
credit risk insurance and priority access of exporters to term
credits, working capital credit and the like;
(b) completion of the on-going review by October 31, 1980,
of institutional arrangements to promote further development of
the Borrower's traditional and non-traditional export products and
commodities; and
(c) initiation, to be made not later than April 30, 1980,
of a study for the purpose of introducing more rational protection
and incentive system based on tarrifs for industry.
2.   Completion of an on-going comprehensive study on external
debt management by October 31, 1980, with a view to introducing
further improvements and refinements in the Borrower's external
debt management policy.
3.   Adequacy of measures to increase domestic resource mobili-
zation, including (i) the objective of eliminating overall deficit
financing in the public sector in 1980, (ii) the completion of a
review by July 31, 1980, of measures needed to encourage increases
in household savings and time deposits, and (iii) the review and
further study of the various aspects of the Borrower's draft study
of its financial sector.
4.   Adequacy of the Borrower's measures to harmonize public
investments, including those of SEE's in 1980 and 1981, with the
available financial resources and the Borrower's investment
priority criteria that: (i) existing productive capacity is used


﻿- 17 -
efficiently and fully and critical bottlenecks removed; (ii)
on-going projects be completed which, with modest additional
resources, can be expected to yield speedy returns; and (iii) new
productive projects stressing exports and employment generation.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   2      day of       , 198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


