j2 F  J       LOAN NUMBER 1915 TU
Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan Supplement)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                    12.         , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1915 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  2-fJbAF    Z  , 1980, between REPUBLIC OF
TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is undertaking a comprehensive
economic program, announced in January 1980, of structural
adjustments for the short-term stabilization, the medium-term
recovery and long-term development of its economy;
(B) In furtherance thereof, the Borrower intends, inter
alia, to implement economic measures summarized in the letter
dated February 7, 1980, addressed to the Bank by the Borrower;
(C) By a Loan Agreement dated March 26, 1980 the Bank has
agreed to make a loan to the Borrower (hereinafter called the
Prior Loan Agreement) in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) to assist the Borrower in
achieving the above objectives and increasing the utilization
of its productive capacity in industry and agriculture through the
provision of part of the foreign exchange required to finance
essential imports of raw materials and intermediate goods as
specified in Schedule 1 to the Prior Loan Agreement; and
(D) The Borrower has requested the Bank's additional
assistance in the financing of the importation of raw materials
and intermediate goods as part of the Borrower's economic program
referred to in paragraphs (A) and (B) of the Preamble to this
Agreement.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said


﻿-2-
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank.being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "LT" and "Lira" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(b) "Project Account" means the account established in
T.C. Merkez Bankasi pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(c) "T.C. Merkez Bankasi" means TUrkiye Cumhuriyet Merkez
Bankasi, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey established
and operating pursuant to Law No. 1211 promulgated in the Official
Gazette of the Republic of Turkey No. 13409 of January 26, 1970 as
amended;
(d) "SEE" means a State Economic Enterprise, or a corpora-
tion, enterprise or entity, 50% or more of whose capital is owned
or controlled by the Borrower or any of its administrative sub-
divisions, agencies or instrumentalities; and
(e) "Private Sector Firm" means a firm, corporation, part-
nership or any other manufacturing entity 50% or more of whose
capital is owned or controlled by persons or entities other than
the Borrower, its administrative subdivisions, agencies or instru-
mentalities, including SEEs.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in


﻿-3-
respect of the reasonable cost of the imported goods included in
such Schedule.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) T.C. Merkez Bankasi is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall entrust T.C. Merkez Bankasi with responsibility
for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation, and
the preparation of withdrawal applications, under the Loan, which
withdrawal applications shall 'to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to provide for withdrawal of at least $25,000
equivalent. Each such withdrawal application shall be submitted
to the Bank with a statement of the cumulative amount claimed for
withdrawal from the Loan Account on account of expenditures made


﻿-4-
or to be made by Private Sector Firms under such application and
all earlier applications submitted to the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall open an account (the
Project Account) with T.C. Merkez Bankasi and shall deposit in
said account in accordance with its usual financial procedures,
upon each withdrawal from the Loan Account, the equivalent in
Liras of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Loan
Account (such equivalent to be determined as of the respective
date of such withdrawals). The amounts so deposited in the Project
Account shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures included
in the Borrower's development programs.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction to the
generality of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications
from the eligible importers issue, or cause to
be issued, such import licenses as shall be
required to carry out the Project, taking into
account, in light of inter alia installed capacity,
recent performance and export potential of the
applicant of such license, the extent to which
domestic production of such commodities cannot meet
domestic demand for such commodities and the need
to allocate import licenses equitably among Turkish
firms both public and private;
(b) make available, or cause to be made available,
to the licensed importers promptly as needed,
such amounts of foreign exchange as shall be
required to import goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; and


﻿-5-
(c) take all such action as shall be necessary or
convenient to facilitate the timely importation
of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall allocate not less than the
equivalent of $25,000,000 of the proceeds of the Loan to Private
Sector Firms.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes that adequate
provision will be made for the insurance of the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, their procurement, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities benefiting from the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds and their procurement.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the economic program and the
measures referred to in paragraphs (A) and (B) of the Preamble to
this Agreement and those set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(b) For the purpose of the exchanges of views referred to in
paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at


﻿-6-
least two weeks in advance a report containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; such reports shall contain
inter alia:
(i) an account of actual export performance in relation
to the targets established under the economic
program and the measures referred to in paragraphs
(A) and (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement;
(ii) the projected levels of public sector investments
taking into consideration the financial resources
available;
(iii) the status of domestic resource mobilization
effort, especially in respect of the important
objective of minimizing the overall public sector
deficit in 1980 and 1981 and the performance of
State Economic Enterprises; and
(iv) the status of external borrowing and plans for
external debt management in the near term.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall Je created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall


﻿-7-
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by T.C. Merkez Bankasi or
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause its departments and
agencies responsible for carrying out the Project to register
in their respective accounts all th.7ir receipts and payments in
such a manner so as to identify all such receipts and payments for
or in connection with the Project, all in accordance with sound
accounting principles consistently applied.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date FC,6. 2    )I, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel
Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
MALIYE
Hazine
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By      -2-             -
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table belv, sets forth the Categories of imported commod-
ity groups to be Li'nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                   Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Agriculture                                      45,000,000
(a) Materials for produc-
tion of fertilizers
(b) Plant protection chemicals
and their raw materials
(2) Industry                                         30,000,000
Raw materials and intermediate goods for:
(a) Steel industry
(b) Copper
(c) Aluminum
(d) Petrochemicals and chemicals
TOTAL             75,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:


﻿- 10 -
(i) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of
the Borrower;
(ii) payments made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000 may be made
on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after October 1, 1980;
(iii) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof;
(iv) expenditures for goods procured under 1ivoices for
less than $5,000 equivalent; and
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, if the Bank has rea-
sonably estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to
any Category will be insufficient to finance the expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate
to the respective Category, to the extent required to meet such
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures.
4.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loqa.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the provision of foreign exchange
required for the importation of raw materials and intermediate
goods described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement in order to
improve the utilization of the Borrower's productive capacity in
industry and agriculture as part of the Borrower's economic
program and the measures referred to in paragraphs (A) and (B) of
the Preamble to this Agreement, including those described in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
Beginning August 1, 1985
Through August 1, 1997                         2,885,000
On February 1, 1998                             2,875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                   3.25%
More than six year but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                   8.15%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                   9.25%


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 3 thereof, goods to be
imported under a single contract estimated to cost $5,000,000
equivalent or more, shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $5,000,000 shall be awarded through normal
trade channels on the basis of normal procurement procedures of
the purchaser of such goods.
3.   Contracts for commonly traded commodities may be awarded
on the basis of price quotations available from organized
international commodity markets.
4.   With respect to each contract costing $250,000 equivalent
or more awarded pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 above and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract;
in respect of contracts referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, in addition thereto, a description of advertising and
tendering procedures followed, the analysis of the respective bids
and recommendations for award and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 5
Periodic Review
In reviewing the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the economic program and the measures referred to
in paragraphs (A) and (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the
Borrower and the Bank shall focus in particular on:
1.   The adequacy of export promotion policies and administra-
tive measures, including:
(a) carrying out of a study for the purpose of introducing
a more rational protection and incentive system based on tariffs
for industry, the first phase of such study to be completed by
January 31, 1981;
(b) establishment by March 31, 1981 of an export credit risk
insurance scheme; and
(c) implementation of institutional arrangements to promote
further development of the Borrower's traditional and non-
traditional export products and commodities on the basis of the
review of such arrangements referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of
Schedule 4 to the Prior Loan Agreement.
2.   Adequacy of the Borrower's measures to harmonize public
investments, including those of SEE's in 1980 and 1981, with the
available financial resources and the Borrower's investment
priority criteria that: (i) existing productive capacity is used
efficiently and fully and critical bottlenecks removed; (ii)
on-going projects be completed which, with modest additional
resources, can be expected to yield speedy returns; and (iii) new
productive projects stressing exports and employment generation.
3.   Adequacy*of measures to increase domestic resource
mobilization, including the objective of minimizing overall
deficit financing in the public sector in 1980 and 1981.
4.   Continuation of sound external debt management policy
and computerization of external debt data.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  624     day of 44L  . , 198 LL.
FOR SECRETARY


