                       Document of
                    The World Bank


                                                   Report No: 67348 v1




                 RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                         ON A

            PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                           OF
PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
                         CREDIT
           BOARD APPROVAL DATE: MARCH 23, 2010


                        TO THE

        FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA


                      MARCH 6, 2012
    ETHIOPIA — PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM SUPPORT
                               PROJECT
                                P074020
                             CREDIT-46690
                                   Restructuring Paper

1.     Proceeds for Ethiopia, Public Sector Capacity Building Program Support Project,
Credit-46690, P074020 will be reallocated as follow:

Category of Expenditure          Allocation                   % of Financing

Current          Revised         Current          Revised     Current             Revised

(a) Federal      Same            US$10            US$20       Such % of pooled Same
Program –                        million          million     fund expenditures
                                                              as the
                                                              Association may
                                                              determine for
                                                              each fiscal year

(b) Regional     Same            US$40            US$30       Such % of pooled Same
Program                          million          million     fund expenditures
                                                              as the
                                                              Association may
                                                              determine for
                                                              each fiscal year



 2.      The project has strengthened the legal and policy framework across sectors
through enactment of proclamations in civil service, tax, finance, civil and criminal laws
as well as laws that determine the powers and responsibilities of the three branches of
government. Restructuring and performance improvements are taking place at all levels of
government through the introduction of Business Process Reengineering (BPR), Balanced
Score Card performance management systems and program budgeting. The investment in
rolling out IT-systems for budget and account, tax identification number, integrated
government tax administration system, automated system for customs data, case flow
management for the judiciary are all improving the performance of the state actors. Skills
were developed through short and long-term training, on-the job training and study tours.
Tax collection has increased five times during the project years and this has increased the
predictability and adequacy of financial resources for service delivery. The institutional
structures that promote participation of citizens are established. To improve access to
information, institutional information counters and officers are in place at regional and


                                              2
district offices as well as the judiciary. In addition, IT-assisted systems like websites,
portals, multi-purpose community centers are increasingly used.

 3.      The proposed reallocation is necessary to meet actual projects needs during
implementation and do not involve any new changes to the original project description,
objectives or associated outcomes as well as use of cost of project savings. The project
has two components/categories (Federal PSCAP and Regional PSCAP) that support
similar activities at different levels of government. The Federal Category has run out of
funds because some of the federal programs were managing procurements of capital
intensive systems on behalf of the national government (federal and regions) that are
implemented country-wide. In summary, the team considers the proposed reallocation to
be a minor one because there is no change in the project description, development
objectives, and targets. In addition the main beneficiaries of the nationally-administered
systems are principally the regions.

 4.     The total amount that government seeks to reallocate is equivalent to US$10
million. We have attached the request letter from government and the draft notice to
government.




                                               3
