                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2872



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-4534-GD)




                                    ON A

                               CREDIT 4534-GD

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.10 MILLION
                       (US$3.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO

                                 GRENADA

                                    FOR A

              OECS SKILLS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH PROJECT

                IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE

             OECS SKILLS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH PROGRAM


                               February 28, 2014



Human Development Sector
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective February 26 , 2014)
                        Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar
                              EC$2.7 = US$1.00
                             US$0.38 = EC$1.00

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 – December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CANTA     Caribbean Association of National Training Agencies
CARICOM   Caribbean Community
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CSME      Caribbean Single Market and Economy
CVQ       Caribbean Vocational Qualification
CXC       Caribbean Examination Council
FM        Financial Management
GCTVET    Grenada Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GHTA      Grenada Hotel and Tourism Association
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR       Implementation Status Report
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NPV       Net Present Value
NTA       National Training Agency
NVQ       National Vocational Qualification
MIS       Management Information System
MoE       Ministry of Education
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Development Objective
PRF       Project Result Framework
PSR       Project Status Report
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QEA       Quality at Entry Assessment
QSA       Quality of Supervision Assessment
TTL       Task Team Leader


                          Vice President:     Hasan A. Tuluy
                        Country Director:     Sophie Sirtaine
                         Sector Manager:       Reema Nayar
                    Project Team Leader:     Harriet Nannyonjo
                       ICR Team Leader:      Harriet Nannyonjo
                                                      GRENADA

           OECS SKILLS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH PROJECT
     (SECOND PHASE OF THE OECS SKILLS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH
                            PROGRAM)


                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 1
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 2
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 3
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 3
  6. Lessons Learned ......................................................................................................... 3
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............ 3
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................ 5
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................... 6
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................... 7
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 8
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................. 9
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 10
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 11
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 12
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 13
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          OECS (Grenada)
Country:                       Grenada         Project Name:             Skills for Inclusive
                                                                               Growth
Project ID:                 P095681            L/C/TF Number(s):             IDA-45340
ICR Date:                  01/27/2014          ICR Type:                      Core ICR
                                                                           Government of
Lending Instrument:             APL            Borrower:
                                                                               Grenada
Original Total
                          XDR 2.10M         Disbursed Amount:            XDR 1,992,690.56
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           XDR 1.99M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Education
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: N.A.

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process            Date               Process         Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept
                      04/18/2008      Effectiveness:        07/15/2009         07/15/2009
Review:
                                                             4/11/2011
Appraisal:            09/08/2008      Restructuring(s):
                                                             3/05/2013
                                      Mid-term
Approval:             01/14/2009                            07/02/2012         07/18/2012
                                      Review:
                                      Closing:              09/01/2013         09/01/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                          Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                Ratings             Borrower                      Ratings
                          Moderately
Quality at Entry:                         Government:                       Satisfactory
                          Satisfactory
Quality of                Moderately      Implementing
                                                                            Satisfactory
Supervision:              Satisfactory    Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank              Moderately      Overall Borrower
                                                                            Satisfactory
Performance:              Satisfactory    Performance:


                                              i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                 Rating
      Performance                                (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                           Quality at Entry
Project at any time              No                                      None
                                           (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                    Quality of
                                Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                          Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                      10                 10
Public administration- Education                           50                 50
Vocational training                                        40                 40

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                           17                17
Education for the knowledge economy                         50                50
Improving labor markets                                     16                16
Social safety nets                                          17                17

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                   At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:                 Hasan Tuluy                      Pamela Cox
Country Director:              Sophie Sirtaine               Yvonne M. Tsikata
Sector Manager:                 Reema Nayar                 Eduardo Velez Bustillo
Project Team Leader:          Harriet Nannyonjo                Angela Demas
ICR Team Leader:              Harriet Nannyonjo
ICR Primary Author:            Cecilia Zanetta


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective was to support the Government of Grenada (GoG) to increase the
employability of youth through public/private sector partnerships for technical and life
skills training that is demand driven.


                                             ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable.

(a) PDO Indicators
                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
       Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval            Target       Completion or
                                             documents)           Values          Target Years
                       The percentage of youth enrolled in the training scheme who are
Indicator 1
                       employed fifteen months after the start of their training.
Value
quantitative or                 N/A                    65%             Dropped               N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved             Dec. 31, 2008           Sept. 1, 2013                         Sept. 1, 2013
Comments               Not Applicable. This indicator was dropped under the March 2013
(incl. %               Level-2 restructuring because it is was deemed not to be a good
achievement)           measure of the Project’s impact on the “employability of youth” since
                       it greatly depends on exogenous factors such as market conditions.
Indicator 2            Number of youth certified (NVQ/CVQ) at Level I or above
Value
quantitative or                   0                        814            500                918
Qualitative)
Date achieved             Dec. 31, 2008       Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
                       Exceeded (113% and 184% level of achievement with respect to
                       Appraisal and March 2013 restructuring targets, respectively). The
                       target was scaled down under the March 2013 restructuring to reflect
Comments               the slower than expected pace of implementation in the aftermath of
(incl. %               the 2008 global crisis which affected, among other things, employers’
achievement)           ability to offer paid internships to trainees. A total of 918 youth
                       received NVQs/CVQs certifications (i.e., 663, 200 and 55 youth
                       certified at Levels 1, 2 and 3, respectively). No youth had received
                       more than one certification at the time of Project closing.

(b) Intermediate Indicators
                                           Original Target   Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
       Indicator       Baseline Value
                                              approval         Target      Completion or
                                            documents)        Values 1      Target Years
                         Intermediate Outcome 1 (i.e., Component 1)
         To increase job-related competencies among unemployed youth through the
      establishment of a competitive training mechanism that supports the financing and
                              delivery of demand-driven training


1
    Changes to the Project’s Result Framework were introduced under the March 2013 restructuring.

                                                     iii
Indicator 1       Number of youth enrolled in the training scheme at Level 1
Value
quantitative or            0                1,160            800               832
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008      Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
                  Achieved (72% and 104% level of achievement with respect to
Comments
                  Appraisal and March 2013 restructuring targets, respectively). The
(incl. %
                  target was scaled down under the March 2013 restructuring to place
achievement)
                  more emphasis on Level 2 training and certification.
Indicator 2       Number of youth enrolled in the training scheme at Level 2
Value
quantitative or            0                    40            80               220
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008         Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
                  Exceeded (550% and 275% level of achievement with respect to
Comments          Appraisal and March 2013 restructuring targets, respectively). The
(incl. %          target was scaled up under the March 2013 restructuring to reflect
achievement)      more emphasis on Level 2 training and certification in response to
                  private sector interest in higher level training.
                  Number of youth successfully completing a training program (i.e.,
Indicator 3       completing includes: graduating from the technical and life skills
                  modules, and completing the traineeship in a public/private company).
Value
quantitative or            0                    969          500               886
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008       Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
                  Achieved (91% and 177% level of achievement with respect to
                  Appraisal and March 2013 restructuring targets, respectively). The
Comments
                  target was scaled down under the March 2013 restructuring to reflect
(incl. %
                  reduction in the amount of training funded under the Project. High
achievement)
                  training completion rates (equivalent to 93%) were one of the factors
                  contributing to the successful Project implementation.
                  Number of youth trained in the project that are certified at Level I in
Indicator 4
                  the occupation for which they were trained
Value
quantitative or            0                    742        Dropped
Qualitative)
Date achieved       Dec. 31, 2008       Sept. 1, 2013    Sept. 1, 2013
Comments
                  Not Applicable. This indicator was dropped under the March 2013
(incl. %
                  restructuring since it is a subset of the PDO indicator.
achievement)
                  Number of private sector companies that take on trainees from the
Indicator 5
                  project
Value                     0                  45              90               240


                                           iv
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008       Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
                  Exceeded (533% and 267% level of achievement with respect to
Comments
                  Appraisal and March 2013 restructuring targets, respectively). The
(incl. %
                  target was scaled up under the March 2013 restructuring to address
achievement)
                  insufficient demand in the tourism sector.
Indicator 6       Percentage of trainees in sectors other than tourism
Value
quantitative or            0                    30%           48%             55%
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008       Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
                  Exceeded (183% and 115% level of achievement with respect to
Comments
                  Appraisal and March 2013 restructuring targets, respectively). The
(incl. %
                  target was scaled up under the March 2013 restructuring to address
achievement)
                  insufficient demand in the tourism sector.
                  Number of employed youth assessed and certified at Level I or II (i.e.,
Indicator 7
                  Prior Learning)
Value
quantitative or            0                    N/A            50              35
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008        Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
                  Partially Achieved (70% level of achievement with respect to March
Comments          2013 restructuring target). This indicator was added under the March
(incl. %          2013 restructuring, which allowed for assessment and certification of
achievement)      prior learning for employed youth without certification. This is part of
                  the 918 certifications under the PDO indicator.
Indicator 8       Percentage of employed youth trained only in life skills
Value
quantitative or            0                    N/A            75              103
Qualitative)
Date achieved          Dec. 31, 2008        Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
                    Exceeded (137% level of achievement with respect to March 2013
Comments
                    restructuring target). This indicator was added under the March 2013
(incl. %
                    restructuring, which enabled employed youth to acquire life skills
achievement)
                    training.
                         Intermediate Outcome 2 (i.e., Component 2)
  To develop an improved policy framework for delivering training by enhancing OECS
  collaboration in training and introducing occupational standards to increase quality and
                                       value of training
                    Number of qualifications acquired, validated, adopted and published
Indicator 9
                    on the web by the GCTVET
Value
                              0                   65             68              74
quantitative or


                                            v
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008       Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
                  Exceeded (114% and 109% level of achievement with respect to
                  Appraisal and March 2013 restructuring targets, respectively). The
Comments
                  target was scaled up under the March 2013 restructuring to reflect the
(incl. %
                  faster than expected progress made by the NTA toward the acquisition,
achievement)
                  validation, formal adoption and publication of labor skills
                  qualifications.
Indicator 10      Number of certified assessors
Value
quantitative or            0                     39            58               63
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008         Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
                  Exceeded (162% and 109% level of achievement with respect to
                  Appraisal and March 2013 restructuring targets, respectively). The
                  target was scaled up under the March 2013 restructuring to reflect the
                  faster than expected progress made by the NTA toward the
                  development of human resources needed to support the new labor
Comments          skills certification framework. Certified assessors include both training
(incl. %          providers and industry representatives (i.e., employers and workers).
achievement)      Note: This indicator was originally defined as “Number of certified
                  assessors who have assessed at least five people during the year.”
                  However, the qualification regarding the number of students was
                  dropped under the restructuring as assessors under the Project typically
                  assessed a much greater number of students (Project Restructuring
                  Paper, March 5, 2013, p. 4).
Indicator 11      CVQs introduced
Value
quantitative or            0                 N/A              Yes              Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved       Dec. 31, 2008        Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
Comments         Achieved (100% level of achievement). This indicator was added
(incl. %         under the March 2013 restructuring to better capture achievement
achievement)     under the restructured Project
                      Intermediate Outcome 3 (i.e., Component 3)
      To strengthen institutional capacity to plan, implement, and monitor training
Indicator 12      Establishment of a National Training Agency (NTA)
Value
quantitative or            0                 N/A              Yes              Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008      Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013 Sept. 1, 2013
Comments          Achieved. This indicator was added under the March 2013
(incl. %          restructuring to better capture achievement under the restructured
achievement)      Project. Established under the Grenada Council for Technical and

                                            vi
                   Vocational Education and Training Act of 2009, the NTA is the
                   national coordinating agency for technical and vocational education
                   and training.
                   National Qualifications register in operation: Certification activity is
Indicator 13
                   being recorded in the NTA MIS, and reports are available
Value
quantitative or             0                 Yes                              Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008        Sept. 1, 2013                    Sept. 1, 2013
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement)
                   Percentage of above indicators and of additional implementation
Indicator 14
                   indicators reported on a yearly basis by the NTA
Value
quantitative or             0                100%                              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved        Dec. 31, 2008        Sept. 1, 2013                    Sept. 1, 2013
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved (100% level of achievement).
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                        IP            Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    04/19/2009     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
  2    10/05/2009     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.00
  3    11/15/2009     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.40
  4    06/26/2010     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.40
  5    02/26/2011     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                         0.52
  6    08/14/2011 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  0.72
                                               Moderately
  7    04/29/2012    Unsatisfactory                                                   1.10
                                             Unsatisfactory
                       Moderately
  8    11/15/2012                         Moderately Satisfactory                     1.42
                     Unsatisfactory
  9    03/20/2013 Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                            2.14
 10    07/24/2013 Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                            3.19




                                            vii
H. Restructuring (if any)

                             ISR Ratings at Amount
                  Board       Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                                Reason for Restructuring &
                Approved                     Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                        Key Changes Made
               PDO Change DO           IP       in USD
                                                millions
                                                            Amendment to Schedule 2 to
                                                            include “non-consultant
                                                            services” as a procurement
                                                            category to cover services
 04/11/2011         No          S       S           0.52 such as the logistical service
                                                            expenses for capacity
                                                            building events and the
                                                            printing of training materials
                                                            and media campaigns.
                                                            Level-Two project
                                                            restructuring that introduced
                                                            changes to: (i) the scope of
                                                            Project activities, (ii) the
                                                            Results Framework, and (iii)
                                                            Project costs and financing in
                                                            response to the economic
 03/05/2013         No         MU MS                1.63(*)
                                                            downturn that had affected
                                                            activities in the key sectors of
                                                            the economy. In addition, the
                                                            PDO indicator was revised to
                                                            a stronger measure of
                                                            employability over the long
                                                            term.
(*) As of 2/27/2013, as indicated in Restructuring Datasheet (Section 5, p. iv).




                                           viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      In the second half of the 2000s, shortage of skills was a major constraint for
Grenada’s economic development, as the country was experiencing a turnaround in
economic activity, with growth in most economic sectors led by tourism and agriculture,
as well as a rebound in the manufacturing and transport sectors. This upsurge in
economic activity was expected to increase the demand for skilled labor, placing
significant pressure on the labor market over the following years. A number of new large
projects—particularly in the hotel and tourism industries—were being planned at the
time, which, when completed, would require significant numbers of trained staff. In
addition, recent trends in terms of the number of and type of tourists had pointed to the
need for the Grenada tourism industry to concentrate on high-margin and niche markets,
which, in turn, would require specialized skills for hospitality and tourism industry
workers.

2.      Enhancing the efficiency of labor markets was also an important regional priority,
as increasing movement of artisans and skilled persons across the Caribbean Community
was seen as a crucial element to the success of the incipient Caribbean Single Market and
Economy (CSME). 2 In this context, the Caribbean region had taken steps to provide the
human capital foundation for economic growth and integration, including adopting a
Caribbean Vocational Qualifications (CVQ) framework that sets the foundations for
common standards and recognition of technical and vocational qualifications throughout
the region, and alignment of technical and vocational training and education (TVET) with
workplace demands.

3.      Approved in 2007, the Bank-financed Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
(OECS) Skills for Inclusive Growth Adaptable Program Loan (APL) aimed to provide
support to OECS countries to undertake the crucial reforms needed for improving labor
skills development to, in turn, meet the labor demands to sustain economic growth. St.
Lucia was the first country to join the Program, 3 followed by Grenada, which was the
second OECS country to meet all of the eligibility criteria.




2
  The Caribbean Single Market and Economy (CSME), also known as the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) Single Market and Economy, is an integrated development strategy envisioned at the 10th
Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community which took place in July
1989 in Grand Anse, Grenada. One of the key elements of the CSME is the free movement of labor -
through measures such as removing all obstacles to intra-regional movement of skills, labor and travel,
harmonizing social services (education, health, etc.), providing for the transfer of social security benefits
and establishing common standards and measures for accreditation and equivalency
(http://www.caricom.org).
3
  Approved on April 5, 2007 by the Board of Directors of the World Bank Group.


                                                     1
4.      The objective was to support the Government of Grenada (GoG) to increase the
employability of youth through public/private sector partnerships for demand-driven
technical and life skills training. Based on St. Lucia’s PAD, which initiated the APL
series, employability was defined as the knowledge, skills and behavior of beneficiaries
to help youth transition to the labor market (p. 5). Employable skills sought out by
employers include basic literacy and numeracy, higher order skills such as decision
making and problem solving and life skills such as dependability, positive attitude, self-
confidence, punctuality, etc.).
5.      The Key Outcome Indicators (KOIs) were:
    The percentage of youth enrolled in the training scheme who is employed fifteen
     months after the start of their training (Target value: 65 percent).
    The number of youth certified at Level I or above (Target value: 814).

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

6.      Key Outcome Indicators were modified as follows:
    Percentage of enrolled youth employed fifteen months after the start of training: This
     PDO indicator was dropped under the March 2013 restructuring, as it was not
     deemed an appropriate measure of the Project’s impact on the “employability of
     youth,” since employment opportunities are driven not just by the supply of labor
     skills but also a number of exogenous factors beyond the scope of the Project. The
     state of the economy, which had been particularly unfavorable during the Project’s
     lifetime, figures prominently among those exogenous factors.
    The number of youth certified at Level I or above: This PDO indicator was retained
     as it was deemed a strong long-term measure of employability since certification is
     an asset that enhances the ability of a trainee to get a job and/or keep one. The target
     value was reduced from 814 to 500 youth to reflect the slower than expected pace of
     implementation in the aftermath of the 2008 global crisis which affected, among
     other things, employers’ ability to offer paid internships to trainees.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

7.      The Project’s direct beneficiaries were originally unemployed youth ages 18-30
who were out of secondary school (i.e., either drop-outs or graduates). This population
group was targeted for training under the Project as it was considered to have insufficient
academic qualifications to obtain employment or proceed to higher education. Indirect
beneficiaries were employers, which would benefit from a labor pool with enhanced,
certifiable labor skills, as well as training providers and other individuals involved in the
various aspects of labor skills certification, which would benefit from expanded
professional and business opportunities.

1.5 Original Components

8.    Component 1 – Skills training for unemployed youth: It financed the training of
unemployed youth through a competitive, demand-driven training scheme aimed at


                                              2
providing quality, competency-based skills and life-skills training in line with labor
market needs.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as Approved)

9.      Component 2 – Establishing an occupational standards framework to improve the
quality and value of training: It financed activities related to the adoption of an
occupational standards framework that is both regionally recognized and adapted to the
local context. This included the introduction of occupational standards, their vetting by
local industries, and the establishment of quality assurance processes.
10.     Component 3 – Institutional strengthening and project management: This
component included three sub-components that provided support for: (a) institutional
strengthening for the Grenada Council for Technical and Vocational Education and
Training (GCTVET) and the associated National Training Agency (NTA); (b) project
management; and (c) communications campaigns.

1.6 Revised Components

11.     Changes in the scope of Project activities were introduced under the March 2013
restructuring, as follows:
   Component 1: The following changes were introduced: (a) a reduction in the overall
    amount of training although with increased focus on Level II training in response to
    the drop in the demand of Level I skills typically associated with the construction and
    tourism industries, as well as the private sector’s interest in higher level training; (b)
    expansion of the eligibility criteria to include unemployed youth ages 16 to 40
    regardless of educational attainment, and to allow labor skills certification for
    employed youth without certification to enable them to participate in competency-
    based training and/or acquire certification or life skills training; and (c) increase in the
    value of the trainee stipend to offset the cost of transportation and childcare.
   Component 3: Activities were expanded to cover software development for program
    monitoring and the operational costs of the NTA to ease the fiscal burden of the
    Project on the Government.

1.7 Other significant changes

12.     Level 2 Project Restructuring - April 2009: Categories of Eligible Expenditures
were amended to include “non-consultant services” as a procurement category to cover
services such as the logistical service expenses for capacity building events and the
printing of training materials and media campaigns.

13.     Level-2 Project Restructuring - March 2013: Other changes introduced under this
restructuring included:
   Results Framework: In addition to the changes to the Key Outcome Indicators
    described above, the Project’s Intermediate Outcome Indicators were also modified



                                               3
      (i.e., one was revised, four additional ones were added, and one was dropped). The
      changes are detailed in Sections F (a) and (b) in the Datasheet.
     Project costs and financing: The total Project cost was reduced from US$4.48 million
      to US$3.72 million as a result of the changes in the Project’s scope described above
      as well as savings in the activities under Component 2. The financing plan was
      revised to eliminate contributions by the private sector under Component 1 (i.e.,
      trainee stipends). Government financing was also reduced, with all trainee stipends
      and the NTA operational costs being covered by IDA financing.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.    The Project’s technical design exhibited several strengths as described below.
However, it also exhibited several weaknesses, including the failure to fully grasp the
negative impact that the 2008 global financial crisis would have on the demand of skills,
which was a crucial element in the Project’s demand-driven training scheme.
Specifically, the strengths and weaknesses in the Project’s design included:

15.      Strengths:

     The Project’s overall focus and PDO were fully aligned with the OECS Country
      Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2006-2009, which emphasized “supporting growth and
      competitiveness” as well as “reducing vulnerabilities, particularly targeting at-risk
      youth.”
     Its innovative design incorporated state-of-the-art knowledge acquired from similar
      Bank-financed skills development projects targeting unemployed youth in the region;
      as well as findings from two Analytical and Advisory Activities (AAA) products and
      the 2007 World Development Report. 4 Particularly notable are: i) the emphasis on
      demand-driven training to ensure the alignment with market needs; ii) the
      incorporation of soft skills training, which had been identified elsewhere as being
      highly valued by both employers and trainees; and iii) incentives embedded in the
      Project’s design, such as the outcome-based payment schemes to training providers.
     The Program’s strong regional dimension effectively built on the ongoing momentum
      toward regional integration, by ensuring compatibility of labor skills competency
      frameworks, maximizing cross-fertilization and capitalizing on the potential for
      economies of scale. In this regard, the so-called “Horizontal” APL was an
      appropriate choice of lending instrument, as it effectively supported operations in



4
 Caribbean Development Bank, Department for International Development, the European Commission for
Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean, the United Nations Development Programme and the World Bank
(2005), Promoting an Integrated Social Protection Framework for the Caribbean, Twelfth Meeting of the
Council for Human and Social Development, Caribbean Community, April 27 – 29, 2005, Georgetown,
Guyana.; World Bank (2006), OECS Skills Enhancement Policy Note, Washington, DC.; World Bank
(2007), World Development Report: Development and the Next Generation, World Bank, Washington, DC.



                                                 4
      several countries under a common program framework, ensuring consistency at the
      regional level, and reducing Project preparation and supervision costs.
     The Project benefited from an in-depth skills needs assessment, working in close
      relationship with the hotel and tourism industry.
     The Bank provided robust technical support to the Borrower during preparation,
      particularly on the groundwork for the establishment of the NTA.
     Key tasks, including the establishment of the National Training Agency (NTA) were
      identified as conditions of effectiveness, thus creating incentives for their timely
      achievement.

16.      Weaknesses:

     The Project design may have been overambitious, as it called for the simultaneous
      development of a vocational qualification framework and the establishment of a
      demand-driven, competency-based training mechanism. Not only both tasks were
      logistically challenging in and of themselves but the establishment of a competency-
      based training also depended to a large extent on the progress made in the
      development of the vocational qualification framework.
     In hindsight, it is now clear that Project preparation exhibited an important
      shortcoming, namely, an incomplete risk assessment. While the full impact of the
      2008 global financial collapse on Grenada’s economy could not have been anticipated,
      it is notable that the issue was ignored during appraisal. There is no mention of the
      risk of an economic downturn and its potential negative impact on the demand for
      paid interns under the Project’s risk assessment, even though at appraisal (i.e., the
      PAD is dated December 16, 2008) and approval (i.e., January 14, 2009) the severity
      of the situation was already evident.

2.2 Implementation

17.     Although the Project was implemented under unusually adverse macroeconomic
conditions, it benefitted from the sustained political support from top Government
authorities under three different administrations and an effective project management.
The specific factors affecting implementation can be summarized as follows:

Factors outside the control of the Government and the implementing agency:

18.     Unfavorable economic environment: The impact of the global financial crisis on
Grenada’s highly dependent economy was severe. From 2009 to 2012 real GDP growth
averaged -1.5 percent, with the hotels and restaurants sector, a proxy for tourism,
declining on average by 4.7 percent during the same period. The unemployment rate
doubled between 2008 and 2012, while poverty, which was already high at 37 percent,
worsened significantly.

19.   Sharp drop in the demand for labor skills: Although clearly desirable, having
employers pay for the internships under the Project was an ambitious proposition, as




                                             5
employers in Grenada are used to getting interns at no cost from other training programs,
including that of the community college. 5 However, requiring employers to pay for the
internships was considered feasible in view of the shortage of skills in the tourism and
construction sectors that was anticipated at the time of appraisal. Ultimately, this demand
did not materialize as the rippling effects of the global crisis reached Grenada’s economy
and none of the new hotels that had been identified during appraisal materialized. Thus,
the demand for employers-paid internships virtually vanished. This became a substantial
stumbling block for the implementation of the training component before the 2013
restructuring under which stipends were financed with IDA proceeds.

20.     Tight fiscal constraints: The Government’s finances were also negatively affected
by the crisis, which affected its ability to finance some of the Project’s costs as
anticipated, particularly the salaries and other operation costs of the newly established
NTA. This constraint was also addressed under the 2013 restructuring, which made the
NTA’s operational expenses eligible for Project financing.

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control

21.     Sustained support on the part of authorities: While the Project was prepared
under one administration and implemented under two different administrations—
including one from the opposition party 6 —the Project’s design of providing demand-
driven technical and life skills training among vulnerable youth and developing the
corresponding institutional framework remained unchanged. The authorities’ strong
support for the Project was also demonstrated by the passage of enabling legislation
establishing the country’s vocational qualification framework, including the creation of
the NTA.

22.      Collaboration with the Ministry of Youth Empowerment and Sports (MOYES):
Capitalizing on the fact that both ministries operated youth training programs focusing on
getting unemployed youth into the workforce, the MOE partnered with the MOYES to
facilitate the implementation of the Project. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
was put in place between the MOYES and the NTA in February 2012, by which the
MOYES would cover the stipend of some of the trainees under this Project during their
traineeship (instead of employers), the NTA would support the MOYES in its training
activities and certification of trainees, and both agencies would collaborate in recruitment
of trainees for the project. This collaboration was critical in resolving the major
bottleneck impeding project implementation—i.e., employers’ reluctance to pay for the
internships given the sluggish economic condition.




5
 The T.A. Marryshow Community College.
6
 The New National Party (NNP), which had ruled Grenada since 1995, was replaced by the opposition
party, the National Democratic Congress, in July 2008, which remained in power until Feb. 2013, when the
NNP took power once again.


                                                   6
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control

23.      Key changes were introduced to the training program: Ultimately, the Project
was successfully implemented as a result of the flexibility and proactive attitude
exhibited by the PCU and NTA, which were able to effectively expand the focus of the
training to other sectors beyond tourism that were not as hardly hit by the global financial
crisis and to accommodate changes demanded by employers, such as the training of
employed, more educated youth. In addition, the PCU and NTA succeeded in
significantly expanding the recruitment of employers providing internships, which, in
turn, translated in a larger number of graduates than anticipated at the time of the 2013
restructuring. Changes were also introduced to the training delivery, including
condensing the training into a shorter time frame (i.e. training for more hours per day)
while maintaining the same overall prescribed number of hours. This led to lower overall
stipend expenses (given the reduced number of days) as well as the probability of trainees
dropping out due to personal circumstances and other factors. In addition, the stipend
amount was increased to more closely reflect trainees’ transportation costs and payment
was expedited. These changes, which were reflected in the 2013 restructuring, were
critical to the ultimately successful implementation of the Project, as they led to higher
completion and certification rates and therefore reduced overall unit cost of training.

24.    Ongoing collaboration with St. Lucia under the APL framework: Collaboration
between St. Lucia and Grenada helped both countries learn from each other and move
faster with implementation, as they routinely shared documents and experiences. For
example, Grenada’s Life Skills document was an adaptation of the one from St. Lucia,
while St. Lucia’s quality assurance documents were based on those of Grenada. This
collaboration also included the joint development of the information monitoring system
(IMS). Collaboration between the two countries is expected to continue after Project
closing as a result of the strong links that have developed between professional staff in
both countries.

25.     Strong collaboration with CARICOM countries and agencies: The PCU and
NTA worked closely with their counterpart in Saint Lucia, other countries in the region,
and the regional organizations, such as the Caribbean Association of National Training
Agencies (CANTA), as they developed labor certification standards and certification of
key quality assurance staff. This close collaboration led, among others, to NTA’s
accreditation by CANTA, which enables it to issue CVQs, effectively expanding the
possibilities for employment of the Project graduates to the entire CARICOM region.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.      Design: The Project’s Result Framework (PRF) was robust and included a battery
of outcome and output indicators that were largely in alignment with the PDOs and
activities supported under the operation. However, it became apparent during
implementation that the employment based indicator was not effective in capturing the
Project’s impact, as employment can be substantially affected –both positively and
negatively – by factors outside the orbit of the Project. . Moreover, the basis for selecting



                                             7
a 65 percent target value are not clear, particularly given the country’s lack of adequate
employment data that would have been needed to make a robust data-informed
employment projection.

27.     Implementation: The M&E system went beyond the PRF to include gender, drop-
out rates, and geographic location by parish. It also served as the embryo of the NTA’s
own M&E system. Making the NTA responsible for the Project’s M&E was a key factor
that permitted to capitalize on this opportunity, which was particularly important in the
context of Grenada’s limited institutional resources. A more ambitious information
management system (IMS) to support the NTA’s M&E needs has also been designed
under the Project.

28.     Utilization: The M&E system made it possible to closely monitor the progress
being made under the project and the achievement of expected results. It also served as
the first register of labor skills certificates being issued. The IMS that has been
established could provide the basis for a regional labor-skills certification registry, as was
designed concomitantly with that of St. Lucia.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

29.     Environmental and social safeguards: The project has an environmental category
C rating given that a neutral environmental impact was expected. No social safeguards
were triggered either.

30.   Financial Management (FM): FM was well managed. Audits were submitted in
time.

31.     Procurement: In mid-2010, there was weak coordination between the Project
Manager and the Procurement team. A Procurement Post Review carried out in March
2010 revealed that some procurement procedures were handled by the Project Manager
and documents were not filed in the PCU's procurement files but at the MOE office
instead. Actions were subsequently implemented to improve coordination, and proper
filing of documentation. Procurement was in compliance with Bank policies and
procedural requirements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

32.     Key positions within the PCU and NTA are permanent staff within the MoE,
which ensures that the management capacity built under the Project remains within
Grenada’s public sector. In addition, in 2013 the NTA received its own budget allocation
for salaries, with operational expenses being financed under the MoE’s budget.

33.     The training model supported under the Project has been replicated under the New
Imani Program, one of the flagship programs of the Government of Grenada that is being
implemented under the MoY. The New Program is considered an improved version of
the old Imani Program that was launched by the previous NNP Administration in 2002,



                                              8
as it builds on the training model introduced under the Project that places greater
emphasis on certification and employment. Its key objectives include: assist the trainees
to develop positive values and attitudes, provide an opportunity for young people to
acquire employable skills, and provide an opportunity for young people to be adequately
prepared for the job market through on-the-job-training All Imani trainees will receive
basic skills training building upon the training curricula developed under the Project. In
addition, under the Multi-Sector Youth Skills Training Program (MYSTP), which is one
of the five training modalities under the New Imani Program, trainees will receive Level
1 and 2 skills training that is fully aligned with the labor skills competencies that have
already been adopted by the NTA. All MYSTP trainees will be required to apply for
certification to National Occupational Standards to receive a Caribbean Vocational
Qualification – CVQ (2013 Manifesto, p. 34). A total of EC$15.9 million have been
allocated to provide training to 2,000 youth under the New Imani Program in the 2013
Budget (2013 Budget Statement, p. 32).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Substantial

34.     Objectives: The relevance of the PDO is deemed to be Substantial. As stated in
the New National Party’s 2013 Manifesto, job creation and skills development supported
by youth development programs is one of the top priorities of the GoG (2013 Manifesto,
p. 2). The Program is also consistent with the current Bank’s Regional Partnership
Strategy (RPS) for OECS Countries 2010-2014 (Report No. 53762-LAC, May 3, 2010),
which has two objectives: i) to build resilience; and ii) enhance competitiveness and
stimulate growth over the medium term. By focusing on the development of labor skills
among vulnerable youth, the Program contributed directly to RPS objectives. In addition,
the PDO is fully aligned with the current OECS Education Sector Strategy 2012-2021, 7
which includes as one of its seven strategic imperatives, the need to provide opportunities
for all TVET learners to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes to enable them to
progress to further education and training and productive employment through the
development of a competency-based curricula linked to the CVQ framework established
across secondary and tertiary education and in all other educational settings in work and
in community. Likewise, the Program is fully aligned with the World Bank Education
Strategy 2020, which focuses on learning for all, beyond schooling is in recognition that
the level of skills in a workforce predicts economic growth rates far better than do
average schooling levels.

35.     Design and implementation: The relevance of the Project’s design is deemed to
be Substantial. With a focus on unemployed youth, skills required by the labor market,
paid internships, the original design reflected the conditions of robust economic growth


7
 The OECS Education Sector Strategy 2012-2021 reflects the overarching education strategy of the OECS
and is used by Member States to align their national Strategies and Plans.


                                                  9
prevailing at preparation. At restructuring, the continued relevance of the Project’s design
was ensured during the economic downturn by increasing the focus on Level II training,
which leads to higher technical skill levels than Level I training, in response to the private
sector’s interest in higher level training, expanding the target population to include more
educated employed youth, and allowing for assessment and certification for prior learning
for employed youth without certification. Presently, the Project’s design continues to be
highly relevant given its emphasis not just on training provision per se but also on the
development of the institutional framework and management skills needed to support the
development and implementation a regionally relevant labor skills competency
framework. This is denoted by the decision of the GoG to continue with a similar youth
certification-based training program under the MOYES’s Imani Program and the
continuous development of the NTA with an emphasis on CVQs.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

The PDO was to support the Government of Grenada to increase the employability of
youth through public/private sector partnerships for demand driven technical and life
skills training. PDO Indicator: Number of youth certified (NVQ/CVQ) at Level 1 or
above.

PDO achievement is considered to be Substantial, as exhibited by substantial
achievements toward increasing the employability of youth through public/private sector
partnerships for demand-driven technical and life skills training. The number of youth
awarded NVQs/CVQs 8 certification surpassed targets set at both appraisal and
restructuring. A total of 918 youth were certified at Level 1 or above, exceeding the
target of 500 defined at restructuring (184 percent level of achievement) and 814
defined at appraisal (113 percent level of achievement). It is important to emphasize that
certification outcomes capture not just training outputs (i.e., the number of trainees that
received soft and technical training and completed their internship) but achievement of
industry-vetted, independently certified, competency-based skills that are recognized both
at the national and regional levels. Prior to certification, all trainees regardless of level of
training, were assessed on technical skills and a common core of employable skills 9 ,
including basic literacy and numeracy, higher order skills such as decision making and




8
  The Caribbean Vocational Qualification (CVQ) is an award that represents achievement of a set of
competencies which define core work practices of an occupational area, consistent with the levels
articulated within the regional qualifications framework. To earn an award, trainees must demonstrate
competence in reaching CARICOM-approved occupational standards developed by practitioners and
employers (i.e. the industry experts).

9
  There was a common core of life skills for all occupational fields irrespective of the level of training.
This means that those trained for example in Housekeeping were required to go through the same life skills
training as those under Data Operations.



                                                    10
problem solving and life skills such as dependability, positive attitude, self- confidence,
punctuality and other aptitudes required to function effectively on the job. The purpose
of the assessment was to determine whether trainees have met the requirements outlined
in the competency standards for the qualification they seek. This assessment was based
on job performance during internship and on a portfolio compiled by the trainee to
demonstrate mastery of skills. Those who complete the training and pass the assessment
are then certified. Focus group discussions with employers confirmed the importance,
demand and appreciation for life skills. Some employers who had hosted trainees for
internships requested support to have their other employees trained in life-skills, an
indication of the level of their appreciation of the life skills training provided under the
Project.

36.      The large number of trainees certified was enabled by several project activities:
First, a total of 1,052 trainees who enrolled in training, including 832 at Level 1, and 220
at Level 2. Of these, 886 youth successfully completed the training program, including
the on-the-job internship, exceeding the target of 500 defined at restructuring (177
percent level of achievement and close to 969 defined at appraisal (91percent level of
achievement). Second, the 240 private companies that provided internships to trainees,
amply exceeding the pre- and post-restructuring targets (i.e., 45 and 90 companies,
respectively), of which 55 percent were in industries not related to tourism (compared to
the 30 percent and 48 percent pre- and post-restructuring targets, respectively). Third, a
robust quality assurance system put in place to support the newly established labor skills
competency framework. This system, including a large number of staff trained under the
Project, facilitated trainee assessment which provided the basis for certification. A total
of 37 facility auditors, 30 internal verifiers, 39 external verifiers, 63 assessors, and three
master assessors have been trained in competency-based education and training
methodologies and certified under the Project.              This system is supported by
corresponding manuals and guidelines, 10 and facilitated accreditation of training
providers and suitability of facilities, as well as assessment and certification of a large
number of youth, including those from the wider national training system. In addition to
the trainees under the Project, a total of 35 employed youth had their labor skills assessed
and certified (i.e., prior learning assessment) and another 63 students from the national
community college were also assessed and certified.

37.    Forth, the regionally recognized occupational standards framework that will serve
to permanently improve the quality and value of training in Grenada. In May 2013, NTA
received CVQ granting status from CARICOM, which is an independent endorsement of
the robustness of Grenada’s newly established occupational standards framework,
enhancing relevance, quality, and increasing the possibility of employment outside
Grenada. In addition, a total of 74 qualifications have been adopted by the GCTVET,
compared to a target of 68, which have been validated, adopted and published on the web
by the GCTVET (compared to an end-target of 68 qualifications). These qualifications
helped to diversify the fields of certification based on indications from the labor market,


10
   These documents include: i) Learner’s Handbook, ii) Center Approval Guidelines, iii) Assessment
Guidelines, iv) Quality Assurance Manual, and v) Accreditation Manual, vi) Procedures Manual.


                                               11
and matched availability of placements for traineeships that were an integral part of the
training program, and would serve to increase employability of youth beyond Grenada.

38.     The Project also developed the institutional capacity to plan, implement, monitor
training, and fulfill the ongoing operational responsibilities concerning the development
and adoption of occupational standards, including maintaining a National Qualification
Register, recording certification activity, monitor labor market trends and manage the
quality assurance system, including trainee assessment. The Grenada Council for
Technical and Vocational Education and Training (GCTVET) was established by law in
2009, with the National Training Agency being created as the operational arm of the
Council. The NTA is staffed with a small core of technical professionals to ensure that
the GoG has the necessary institutional capacity to support the provision of training,
organize assessment, and the establishment of the labor skills competency framework
both under and beyond the Project.

39.     By focusing on the development of skills—both life skills and technical skills—
through a demand-driven training program, the Project contributed directly to the PDO
achievement of improving the employability of youth. Life skills training provided under
the Project focused on the development of socio-emotional or non-cognitive skills (also
known as “life skills” or “soft skills”) related to behaviors and attitudes, such as
dependability, positive attitude, team work, conflict resolution, etc. Recent evidence from
econometric and qualitative analyses point to the importance of non-cognitive skills as
determinants of success in the labor market and workers’ productivity. 11 Moreover,
recent studies indicate that employers in the Latin America and Caribbean region are
placing increasing value on life skills vis-à-vis technical skills. 12 Similarly, by requiring
training providers to demonstrate employers’ commitment to provide on-the-job
internships as part of their proposal, the Project ensured that employers played a role in
determining the allocation of training resources among the various occupations and
economic sectors, thus ensuring the relevance of the technical skills developed under the
Project.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

40.     The Project’s efficiency is considered to be Substantial. Project funds were used
efficiently as illustrated by the higher than originally expected certification outcomes
within a small budget. The total number of trainees certified was 918 compared to 814
and 500 pre- and post-restructuring targets (i.e., 113 percent and 184 percent
respectively) despite a 24 percent reduction in overall Project costs, from US$4.48 to
US$3.39 million, and a 41 percent reduction in component 1 (i.e., from US$2.08 to


11
  See Heckman, Stixrud and Urzua, 2006;Fazio, 2011.
12
  Using data from 1,200 firms in the LAC region, Bassi et al. (2012) showed that employers value non-
cognitive skills more than cognitive ones, with the results being statistically robust across countries,
economic sectors, and occupations. These results are consistent with those rendered by studies recently
conducted in Peru and the Dominican Republic (World Bank, 2011; Martinez, 2011).


                                                  12
US$1.22 million). Out of the 918 certifications 13, 255 were at Level 2 and above, and
this was unexpected since only 40 trainees were expected to be enrolled at Level 2. This
was achieved by condensing training into shorter periods of time (i.e., more training
sessions per day), as shortening the overall duration of training reduced both overall
stipend expenses and the probability of trainees dropping out due to personal
circumstances and other factors. Overall, unit training costs were 23 percent lower than
anticipated (i.e. US$1,657.71 per trainee anticipated at appraisal versus and actual unit
cost of US$1,277). Unit training costs were lower, in spite of higher daily stipends and
transportation allowances and an increase in the cost of training materials from the VAT,
since on average there were fewer than the expected number of training days per course.
This meant that the total amount of funds paid for stipends and transportation was lower,
on average, than expected.

41.     The Project’s substantial economic efficiency is also illustrated by the results
from an economic analysis of the training component, which yields a 13.2 percent
Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) 14. The economic analysis also found that an
increase in average wage income of 10 percent is needed to ensure a positive rate of
return with a discount rate of 7.5 percent, compared to 20 percent at appraisal. These
results suggest that the training component is more efficient than at appraisal even under
rather unfavorable economic conditions currently prevailing in Grenada as a result of the
global financial and economic crisis. In addition, the economic cost of certification per
student (or the marginal economic cost of certification) is 48 percent lower than
anticipated (i.e., US$2,555.00 per certification anticipated at appraisal versus an actual
cost of US$1,329.00). 15

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

42.    The Project’s relevance, efficacy and efficiency are considered to be Substantial
supporting an overall Satisfactory rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

43.    As originally envisioned, the training supported under the Project targeted solely
uneducated, unemployed youth. While this population group continued to be the main
beneficiary group, as part of the restructuring the targeting was expanded to include more



13
     All these youth had received one certification by the time of Project closing.
14
     No IERR was calculated at appraisal
15
   The marginal economic cost of certification is calculated based on the estimated and actual cost of
Component 1 (USD2.08 million and USD1.22 million, respectively) and the number of estimated and
actual number of certifications awarded under the Project (814 and 918 NVQs/CVQs, respectively).


                                                 13
educated, employed youth to address growing unemployment even among more educated
youth and to respond to the interest expressed by employers in training their current
employees, particularly on softer skills.

44.    In terms of gender, the larger majority of trainees were female, accounting for 76
percent.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

45.     The establishment by Parliament of the GCTVET and the NTA in 2009 was
among the most notable Project’s outputs, particularly in terms of its institutional impact
ensured that Grenada has the necessary institutional capacity to support the provision of
competency based skills training both under and beyond the Project. The NTA is the
fourth entity to be accredited to issue CVQs, expanding their employment opportunities
throughout the CARICOM region. Regional cooperation with Jamaica, Trinidad and
Tobago, St. Lucia and regional agencies, including CANTA, was another important
Project outcome.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

46.   The Project contributed toward strengthening collaboration and coordination
between government agencies, in particular the MoE, MOYES and the NTA.

47.     The Project has also contributed toward South-to-South collaboration. For
example, Antigua hired s Grenada’s NTA to provide guidance on setting up their quality
assurance and procedures for certification, which was considered the most useful
guidance it had received in the sector. St. Vincent and the Grenadines sent a three-person
team to Grenada to learn from their experience and receive guidance as they prepared for
certification and CVQ granting status. St. Kitts has also expressed interest in learning
from the Grenada’s experience.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

48.     The GoG has taken actions to ensure the continuation of the certification-based
training program sponsored under the Project and the functioning of the NTA. However,
the GoG faces short- and medium-term challenges as well as opportunities to capitalize
on the full potential impact these initiatives can have on enhancing Grenada’s economic
and human capital development in the long run. Specifically:

Risks to Development Outcomes

a) The GoG needs to ensure the continuous efficacy and efficiency of the competency-
   based training implemented under the Project. The New Imani Program has
   undergone some modifications that could make it less effective and less efficient. The
   most important modification has been decreasing intensity of training, expanding it
   over a longer time span. Given the Project’s implementation experience, this

                                            14
   modification is likely to increase the drop-out rate. More importantly, it can introduce
   distortions in the labor market by unintentionally discouraging employers from hiring
   permanently.
b) To ensure the sustainability of the newly established vocational qualifications
   framework over the medium and long terms, it is vital to ensure the financial
   sustainability of the NTA. The GCTVET Act does not ensure the NTA’s financial
   independence, as it does not considers any financial mechanisms apart from the
   discretionary budget and other moneys assigned by Parliament on an annual basis.
   The current budget allocation covers mainly salaries, and the approval of operational
   expenditures is left at the discretion of the MoE, which makes it difficult for the
   agency to engage in any meaningful long-term planning. It is important to continue to
   provide support for certification activity in the medium term through programs such
   as the New Imani Program until the demand for certification is more firmly
   established.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (QAE)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

49.     The Bank’s team prepared a technically robust operation, which reflected the
state-of-art knowledge in active labor markets programs targeting youth as well as sound
operation design that put in place a system of incentives to support the demand-driven
nature of the training and the result-oriented behavior of the various actors. In addition,
the Bank team worked closed with various stakeholders, particularly employers from the
hotel and tourism sectors, to identified expected shortages in labor skills to be addressed
under the Project. In addition, the establishment of the NTA and its enabling legislation
were the result of various modalities of Bank support. For example, the Bank provided
support for a MoE official to attend a summer program in Professional Education at
Harvard, where a first draft of the legislation was prepared as an academic exercise. The
drafting of the legislation, in particular aspects related to the NTA’s organizational
structure, was subsequently supported with Bank-financed consultants as part of Project
preparation. Bank support was also a key factor in fostering horizontal fertilization
among ECC, particularly Saint Lucia, as well as the interaction of Grenada’s officials
with regional organizations, such as CANTA.

50.     The PRF exhibited some weaknesses and the macroeconomic risk derived from
the collapse of world financial markets that took place in October 2008 was not identified
during appraisal and, as a result, the potential negative impact of a global economic
downturn on Grenada’s tourism sector and the associated drop in the demand for skills,
was overlooked.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                            15
51.     The Project was under close supervision, with regular supervision missions that
included field visits to training providers and employers throughout the country, which
helped identify the challenges being faced at various stages of project implementation.
The Bank worked closely with the GoG and provided the flexibility needed to achieve a
successful implementation of Project activities, including processing a Level 2
restructuring to adapt the Project to the challenging economic landscape that ensued as a
result of the global financial crisis. The decision to restructure the Project was
appropriate, as it enabled it to be fully implemented in the six months prior to its closing,
with almost 50 percent of overall disbursements and 74 percent of all labor skills
certifications supported under the Project taking place during the last six-month period. 16
It would have been beneficial, however, to process this restructuring earlier in the
Project’s lifetime, as it became apparent as early as 2010 that potential employers were
not willing or able to offer paid internships to trainees under depressed economic
conditions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

52.   Overall Bank performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory, given its
moderately satisfactory performance at quality at entry and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

53.     Government performance is deemed Satisfactory. The Project received the full
support from GoG authorities during three different administrations. Although the
Government’s financial contribution to the Project was reduced due to the tight fiscal
constraints that resulted from the economic recession, adequate technical and financial
resources were assigned to the Project during its lifespan. A strong inter-government
coordination was exhibited across the MoE, MOYES and the NTA, which was crucial to
the Project’s successful implementation, including MOYES’ decision to pay for the
trainees stipends until the Project was restructured.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

54.     The performance of the PCU is considered Satisfactory. It was actively involved
in Project preparation as well as its implementation. Throughout the Project’s lifetime,
the PCU exhibited strong ownership of the Project, willingness to learn by doing, and the
ability and will to reflect upon the implementation experience and make the necessary


16
  A total of 245 and 673 youth were certified at Level I or above in 2012 and 2013, respectively, which
represent 26 and 74 percent of all certifications issued under the Project (NTA’s Monitoring and Evaluation
Report, August 14, 2013).


                                                    16
adjustments. The PCU provided effective support to NTA, responding swiftly to all its
needs. It also played a central role facilitating coordination between the MoE, MOYES
and the NTA.

55.     The performance of the NTA is also deemed Satisfactory. Top authorities were
actively involved in Project implementation. They fully capitalized on the financial and
technical support provided by the Project to build the newly established agency from
scratch together with the vocational framework. The NTA effectively implemented a
robust information system, which allowed it to monitor both implementation progress as
well as results.

56.    Despite all obstacles, including an unusually harsh economic environment,
changes in administration, and a delayed restructuring, both the PCU and the NTA
continued to forge forward. Stability within the PCU’s and NTA’s management brought
much needed continuity in the overall’s Project management. It generously shared its
implementation experience with other countries in LAC and other regions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

57.   Overall Borrower performance is considered Satisfactory, given the
Government’s satisfactory level of performance and the outstanding performance of the
PCU and NTA.

6. Lessons Learned

a) Lessons of wide general application

58.      Measuring the impact of skills building interventions on employability poses a
difficult challenge. This is particularly true in projects that, by virtue of their size and
other institutional and technical limitations, do not lend themselves to randomized-type
evaluations. While employment is undoubtedly the ultimate measure of employability, it
is also affected by factors external to the intervention, most notably economic conditions.
Thus, in the design of skills development projects such as this one, it is important to
realize that at best these programs can enhance the supply of labor skills within the
existing, exogenously determined demand for labor skills.

59.   Focusing on soft-skills can provide an effective focus of training programs. Both
employers and trainees appear to value them greatly. Under the Project, soft skills were
emphasized throughout the training, including the technical training and the internship.

60.     The development of a competency certification framework is a transversal effort
at the intercept of the orbit several line ministries. As illustrated by the Project
implementation experience, its success depended on the collaboration between several
entities, primarily the MOE, MOYES and the NTA, and, to a lesser degree, the MoL and
the MoF.



                                            17
c) Project-specific lessons

61.     All government-sponsored internship programs operating in Grenada should
have consistent sets of incentives. As originally conceived, internships under the Project
required employers to pay for the stipend. This requirement, together with the fact that it
targeted less educated, unemployed youth, obviously put the Project at a disadvantage
with respect to other publicly sponsored internship programs, such as the one from the
community college, which seeks to place college-educated trainees in internships at no
cost to employers.

62.      There are opportunities to eliminate duplications and ensure the most effective
and efficient use of the country’s limited institutional and technical resources. For
example, career counseling under skills development programs could be strengthened by
utilizing the already installed capacity within the MoE and individual schools. Likewise,
performance under the Project by individual training providers could be used as selection
criteria under other skills development projects.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            18
                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    (a) Project Cost by Component (in Million equivalent)

                                                               Appraisal              Percentage
                                                                             Actual
Component Project Cost Summary
                                                                Estimate
                                                                             (US$)              of
                                                                  (US$)
                                                                            million   Appraisal %
                                                                 million
1. Skills Training for Unemployed Youth
1. Skills Training                                                 2.08        1.22            59
2. Improving the Policy Framework for Delivering Training
1. Introduction of Standards, Accreditations & Quality
Assurance, Certification                                           0.40        0.25            63
3. Project Management and Institutional Strengthening
1. Institutional Strengthening                                     0.42        0.28            67
2. Project Management                                              1.05        1.45           138
3. Public Awareness                                                0.29        0.19            65
Total BASELINE COST                                                4.24        3.39            80
Physical Contingencies                                             0.04           0
Price Contingencies                                                0.23        0.00
Total PROJECT COST                                                 4.48        3.39            76



    (b) Financing

Source of Funds                                    Appraisal        Actual      Percentage of
                                                    USD            in USD         Appraisal
                                                   Millions        Million

Borrower                                             0.90            0.32              36
International Development Association                3.00            3.06             102
(IDA)
Local sources of Borrowing Country                   0.60            0.01               2
(private sector)
Total                                                4.50            3.39              76




                                              19
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                    Component 1 – Skills Training for Unemployed Youth
Intermediate Outcome 1: To increase job-related competencies among unemployed youth
through the establishment of a competitive training mechanism that supports the financing and
delivery of demand-driven training
a. Youth labor-skills competency based training
- Enrolled 1052 (24% males, 76% females)
- 257 males
- 795 females
- 7 Parishes (St. Mark, St. Andrew, St. David, St. George, St. John, Carriacou, St. Patrick)
- 6 Sectors (Hospitality & Tourism, Agriculture, Construction, ICT, Fashion, Furniture)
- 53 Programs across 16 Occupational areas. 42 Level 1s and 11 Level 2s.
- Food and Beverage Restaurant Service: Server (4 programs; 4 Level 1)
- Data Operations (18 programs; 11 Level 1 and 7 Level 2)
- General Office Administration (5 programs; 5 Level 1)
- Industrial Security Operations (2 programs; 2 Level 1)
- Electrical Installation (2 programs; 1 Level 1 and 1 Level 2)
- General Cosmetology (5 programs; 4 Level 1 and 1 Level 2)
- Furniture Making (1 program; 1 Level 1)
- Garment Production (5 programs; 5 Level 1)
- Printing and Graphics Arts (1 program; 1 Level 1)
- Commercial Food Preparation: Cookery (1 program; 1 Level 1)
- Crop Production (1 program; 1 Level 1)
- Livestock Rearing (1 program; 1 Level 1)
- General Construction (3 programs; 3 Level 1)
- Cricket Pitch & Field Maintenance (1 program; 1 Level 1)
- House Keeping: Room Attendant (1 program; 1 Level 1)
1. - Fashion Design (2 programs; 2 Level 2)

                     Component 2 – Occupational Standards Framework
Intermediate Outcome 2: To develop an improved policy framework for delivering training by
enhancing OECS collaboration in training and introducing occupational standards to increase
quality and value of training
a. Number of qualifications
2. Number of qualifications acquired, validated, adopted and published on the web by the
    GCTVET (Target value: 68)
    Achieved. A total of 74 qualifications have been adopted by the GCTVET.
b. Human resources supporting the labor skills competency framework (i.e., assessors and
       others).
3. Number of certified assessors (Target value: 63)
   Achieved. A total of 63 assessors have been certified
c. Regional certification
4. Introduction of CVQs
   Achieved. The NTA has been accredited at the regional level and can issue CVQs.



                                                20
                        Component 3 – Institutional strengthening
       Intermediate Outcome 3: To strengthen institutional capacity to plan, implement,
                                    and monitor training.
a. Establishment of a National Training Agency (NTA)
5. Establishment of a National Training Agency (NTA)
   Achieved. The NTA was established by an Act of Parliament in 2009.
b. Operationalization of a certification system
6. National Qualifications register in operation
    Achieved. The NTA maintains a National Qualification Register, in which certification
   activity is being recorded and reports are available
c. To strengthen institutional capacity to better implement, monitor and plan training
    through the strengthening of the project implementing agencies
7. Percentage of above indicators and of additional implementation indicators reported on a
   yearly basis by the NTA
   Achieved. The NTA routinely monitors and reports on 100% of the above indicators.




                                              21
                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
1.      The Project’s efficiency is considered to be Substantial. Project funds were used
efficiently as illustrated by the higher than originally expected certification outcomes
within a small budget. The total number of trainees certified was 918 compared to 814
and 500 pre- and post-restructuring targets (i.e., 113 percent and 184 percent
respectively) despite a 24 percent reduction in overall Project costs, from US$4.48 to
US$3.39 million, and a 41 percent reduction in component 1 (i.e., from US$2.08 to
US$1.22 million). Out of the 918 certifications, 255 were at Level 2 and above, and this
was unexpected since only 40 trainees were expected to be enrolled at Level 2. This was
achieved by condensing training into shorter periods of time (i.e., more training sessions
per day), as shortening the overall duration of training reduced both overall stipend
expenses and the probability of trainees dropping out due to personal circumstances and
other factors. Overall, unit training costs were 23 percent lower than anticipated (i.e.
US$1,657.71 per trainee anticipated at appraisal versus and actual unit cost of US$1,277).
Unit training costs were lower, in spite of higher daily stipends and transportation
allowances and an increase in the cost of training materials from the VAT, since on
average there were fewer than the expected number of training days per course. This
meant that the total amount of funds paid for stipends and transportation was lower, on
average, than expected.

2.      The Project’s substantial economic efficiency is also illustrated by the results
from an economic analysis of the training component, which yields a 13.2 percent
Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) 17 . The economic cost of certification per
student (or the marginal economic cost of certification) is 48 percent lower than
anticipated (i.e., US$2,555.00 per certification anticipated at appraisal compared to the
final economic cost of US$1,329.00). 18

3.      The analysis utilizes the same assumptions in terms of probability of being
employed and wages of the target population estimated at appraisal. It assumed that, over
the next ten years, those who received training and certification under the Project will
have a 10 percent increase in the probability of employment relative to their peers who
did not receive any training. It is assumed that the impact will be 50 percent higher
among those that received Level 2 training and certification (i.e., 15 percent increase).
Having obtained regionally recognized CVQs, trainees now have expanded employment
opportunities at regional and international level, thus effectively increasing the
probability of being employed. Given that the target population has lower employment
rates in Grenada than in other CARICOM countries, the increase can be expected to be
substantial.




17
     No IERR was calculated at appraisal.
18
   The marginal economic cost of certification is calculated based on the estimated and actual cost of
Component 1 (USD2.08 million and USD1.22 million, respectively) and the number of estimated and
actual number of certifications awarded under the Project (814 and 918 NVQs/CVQs, respectively).


                                                 22
4.       The analysis also assumes a 15 percent and 22.5 percent increase in per capita
wages among those that received training and certification at Levels 1 and 2,
respectively. Research in other countries indicates that competency-based training and
certification can yield comparable increases in wage. For example, in its analysis of the
Mexican National System of Competency Standards, Skills Testing, Calderón (2000)
findings suggest a 17 percent improvement in hourly wages, relative to not having been
trained 19.
5.       The benefits from training and certification derive from the increase in wage mass
for the target group that can be attributed to the training program taking into account: i)
unemployed persons who would otherwise have no wages; and ii) employed persons who
would receive higher wages. Results show an IERR of 13.2 percent for Component 1
alone, and using a much lower employment rate (i.e. 10 percent compared to the trainee
employment rate of 24 percent reported in September 2013).




19
   Calderón, A. (2000), The Mexican National System of Competency Standards, Skills Testing and
Certification: Measuring the benefits of on the job training and discussing the economic rationale for not
passing the government the bill for the certification of workers skills, Paper prepared for the Conference
“Lifelong Learning as an Affordable Investment” Hosted by the OECD and Canada, Montreal December 6-
8, 2000.



                                                   23
                           Table 1. Summary of Economic Analysis

     PARAMETERS
     Certifications awarded under the Project
     NVQs/CVQs awarded among those enrolled in training under Component 1           820
     - Number of Level 1 NVQs/CVQs certifications awarded                           649
     - Number of Level 2 NVQs/CVQs certifications awarded                           171
     Impact on the probability of employment
     Employment rate of target population (without the Project)                    40%
     Increase in the probability of employment due to Project participation
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 1 NVQs/CVQs certifications             10.0%
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 2 NVQs/CVQs certifications             15.0%
     Additional number of participants employed                                      36
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 1 NVQs/CVQs certifications                 26
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 2 NVQs/CVQs certifications                 10
     Impact on earnings
     Monthly per capita wage among target population (ECD)                          830
     Annual per capita wage among target population (ECD)                        9,960
     Annual per capita wage among target population (USD)                        3,689
     Increase in per capita wages due to Project participation (%)
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 1 NVQs/CVQs certifications               10%
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 2 NVQs/CVQs certifications             15.0%
     Increase in per capita annual wages due to Project participation (US$)
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 1 NVQs/CVQs certifications               369
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 2 NVQs/CVQs certifications               553
     Number of years of Project benefit                                              10
     BENEFITS
     Annual wage mass from trainees without the Project                       1,209,956
     Increase in wage mass from increased employment                           148,865
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 1 NVQs/CVQs certifications           105,340
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 2 NVQs/CVQs certifications            43,525
     Increase in wage mass among already employed                              133,612
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 1 NVQs/CVQs certifications            95,764
     - Among trainees that obtained Level 2 NVQs/CVQs certifications            37,848
     Total increase in annual wage mass due to Project                         282,477
     COSTS
     Training component (US$)                                                 1,520,000
     IERR                                                                         13.2%


6.      A sensitivity analysis was also conducted to assess the efficiency of the training
under different scenarios, as the Project’s actual impact on the probability of being
employed and increase in wages cannot yet be determined due to the fact that most
trainees completed their training in August 2013. As shown in Table 2, an increase in
average wage income of 10 percent is needed to ensure a positive rate of return with a
discount rate of 7.5 percent, compared to 20 percent at appraisal. These results suggest


                                                    24
that the training component is more efficient than at appraisal even under rather
unfavorable economic conditions currently prevailing in Grenada as a result of the global
financial and economic crisis.

                                          Table 2
                 Rate of return of training under several employment rate
                                and wage increase scenarios

                              Percentage point increase in probability of employment
                                       among trainees certified at Level 1
                                   0%      2.5%       5%     7.5%      10%     12.5%
                      1%       -29.9%    -17.1%   -10.1%    -4.8%     -0.4%    3.4%
  Percentage
  increase in        10%        -2.3%     2.2%      6.2%     9.8%    13.2%    16.4%
  wage mass          15%         5.4%     9.3%     12.9%    16.3%    19.5%    22.7%
     among           20%        11.8%    15.5%     18.9%    22.2%    25.4%    28.6%
    trainees         25%        17.7%    21.2%     24.5%    27.8%    31.0%    34.2%
  certified at
                     30%        23.1%    26.5%     29.9%    33.2%    36.5%    39.7%
     Level 1
                     40%        33.2%    36.7%     40.1%    43.6%    46.9%    50.3%

7.      Components 2 and 3 are also expected to have a positive economic impact, as the
Project effectively supported the establishment of an industry-vetted, regionally
recognized occupational standards framework that will serve to permanently improve the
quality and value of training in Grenada. Thus, the economic benefits under the Project
should include competency-based training and certification benefits in terms of higher
probabilities of employment and wages for future cohorts of trainees and employers. In
addition, a system of evaluation and certification of labor competency may induce
workers mobility among firms; a byproduct that will increase a premium paid for the
retention of employees. In contrast, it can also reduce the screening cost and initial
training expenses of workers to be hired, leading to more efficient labor markets.




                                            25
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Angela Demas                Senior Education Specialist      HDNED
Viviana A. Gonzalez         Program Assistant                LCSHH
Svetlana V. Klimenko        Sr Financial Management Specia   LCSFM
Daniela Marotta             Senior Economist                 MNSED
Thomas Patrick McArdle      Consultant                       LCSHE
Yuki Murakami               Education Economist              LCSHE
Rolande Simone Pryce        Senior Operations Officer        AFTG2
Norma M. Rodriguez          Procurement Analyst              LCSPT
Christel M. J. Vermeersch   Senior Health Specialist         LCSHH

Supervision/ICR
Erik Bloom                  Senior Economist                 LCSHE
Harriet Nannyonjo           Senior Education Specialist      LCSHE
Svetlana V. Klimenko        Sr Financial Management Specia   LCSFM
Thomas Patrick McArdle      Consultant                       LCSHE
Yuki Murakami               Education Economist              LCSHE
Norma M. Rodriguez          Procurement Analyst              LCSPT
Alonso Sanchez              Consultant                       HDNED
Nazumi Takeda               Consultant                       HDNED


   (c) Staff Time and Cost

                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                                               USD Thousands
                                     No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending                                                             224.6

Supervision/ICR                                                      478




                                          26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
          Not Applicable




                27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                  Not Applicable




                       28
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Introduction/Background

1.      A fundamental ingredient in the development of Grenada is a highly competent
workforce, which will have the capacity to provide quality skills and services to the
Grenadian private and public sectors. The OECS (Grenada) Skills for Inclusive Growth
Project has its genesis in the steady improvement in the economic growth of Organisation
of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) in the lead up to the year 2008. The project
recognizes that to avoid stagnation and increase competition especially in the
tourism/hospitality, agriculture, marine and construction sectors, that, crucial reforms are
needed. One of the elements highlighted in the World Bank report, "OECS Towards a
New Agenda for Growth (2005), is the creation of new capacity in the labour force and
the private sector to take advantage of emerging opportunities in the global market place.
In Grenada, the shortage of skilled labour was cited by businesses as the number one
constraint to increasing competitiveness. Moreover, a competent workforce will improve
the productivity of Grenada.

2.     Following several consultations with various stakeholders starting in 2007, the
Government of Grenada and the World Bank signed a Credit Agreement, which was
approved by the Parliament of Grenada to finance the Grenada Skills for Inclusive
Growth Project. The project was launched on May 26, 2009 and was completed on
September 1st, 2013. There were two restructuring with the first in April 2011 and the
second in January 2013.

Quality at Entry

3.      The overall Quality at entry can be described as satisfactory. The development
objective set for the project was relevant and appropriate to Grenada’s needs and specific
objectives were consistent with the identified needs of the Grenada’s economy at the start
of the Project. The Project components were also consistent with the identified priorities
and needs of the Grenadian economy. In addition, the project was developed with
excellent stakeholders participation and as a result of such there was greater ownership
for the project throughout implementation. The PCU was staffed with well trained and
experienced personnel. The phasing of the project activities was adequate initially,
however as a result of the domestic economic downturn in 2009 tremendous pressure was
placed on the PCU and the GNTA throughout the implementation of the Project. The
relative allocation of the financing among the project component was deemed appropriate
in light of the outputs defined for each component at entry. However, the costing of
training was considered a bit unattractive to training providers.

Experience during Implementation

4.      Project Objectives: The Project’s main objective aimed to support the
Government of Grenada to increase the employability of youth through public/private
sector partnerships for technical and life skills training that is demand driven. This
objective had three intermediate outcomes with associated lines of action:


                                            29
(a) To increase job-related competencies among unemployed youth through the
    establishment of a competitive training mechanism that supports the financing and
    delivery of demand driven training (training);
(b) To improve the quality and value of training in Grenada and enhance OECS
    collaboration in training through the adoption of an occupational standards
    framework that is validated locally and recognized regionally (framework);
(c) To strengthen institutional capacity to plan, implement, and monitor training
    (capacity building).

5.     The original project included two overall Outcome Indicators in the Results
Framework:
(a) The percentage of youth enrolled in the training scheme who are employed fifteen
    months after the start of their training. Target value: 65 percent. This indicator was
    dropped in the Project Restructuring of January 2013 and the target in the second
    changed from 800 to 500.
(b) The number of youth certified at Level 1 or above. Target value: at least 800.

Project Components

6.      The Project has three components: (1) Skills Training for Unemployed Youth (2)
Establishing the Standards Framework and (3) Project Management and Institutional
Strengthening.

7.      Component 1 seeks to provide training for unemployed youth in Hospitality,
Marina, Construction and Agriculture sectors, through the establishment of a training
scheme. The project commence with training for the Hospitality sector in year one and
expanded to other sectors in years two and three, based on demand in the respective
sectors.

8.      Component 2 addresses the acquisition and introduction of occupational
standards, their vetting by local industries, and the establishment of quality assurance
processes. The latter includes: training a cadre of assessors and inspectors, accreditation
of training providers, assessment of trainees and certification of trainees based on
competencies. This framework serves not only the training financed by the project’s first
component, but it will also serve the wider national training system including TVET at
the secondary school level.

9.       Component 3 ensures that sufficient resources are available to coordinate and
monitor the project during implementation. The NTA handles the administrative aspects
of the training component and serves as a broker for the competitive selection of the
training providers. There is a subcontracting competitive process to outsource the hard
skills training. The NTA organizes for the traineeships. The Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) assists the NTA with the coordination of the call for proposals. Project Manager
and support staffs are contracted by the NTA to facilitate project implementation.
Operational costs associated with the project implementation are also being supported.


                                            30
The NTA will upgrade its management information system and strengthen the
institution’s capacity in financial management.

Assessment of the Operation’s Objectives, Design, Implementation and Operational
Experience; Relevance

10.     Overall objective of the Project remained a high priority to the Government of
Grenada at the time of ICR preparation. Project design was effective in that it facilitated
broad based stakeholder participation. This was consistent throughout implementation.
Project design was modified during implementation due to a downturn in the economy.
The changes in the local economy had affected the full participation of the private sector
as programmed under the original project design. Notwithstanding this, the project
maintained a very high relevance since the operation’s objective, design, and
implementation remain consistent with the country’s current development priorities as
articulated in the Government’s various policy documents.

Assessment of Outcome of the Operation against Agreed Objectives

11.    Overall, there was tremendous progress since Project restructuring towards the
achievement of the Project’s Development Objectives (PDO’s). The training component
was outstanding.

12.     At the end of the Project a total of 1052 youth have been enrolled in training
compared to revised end-of-Project target of 800. Of this total, 886 have completed
training. At the close of the project 220 of the 1052 enrolled pursued level 2 programs
(compared with end-of-project target of 80). The Project therefore surpassed the targeted
total of 800. (See the Project Development Objectives Framework and Monitoring
Indicators attached).

   949 persons have received National Vocational Qualifications (NVQs/CVQs).
   Collaboration with the Ministry of Youth Empowerment in the implementation of its
    various programmes will allow for the sustainability of initiatives started under the
    project.
   The Project has had an impact beyond tourism with the percentage of trainees in
    sectors other than tourism at 55 percent exceeding substantially the 30 percent
    original end of Project target.
   The Project has successfully engaged with the private sector, and there were now 90
    private sector companies taking on trainees compared to an original end-of-Project
    target of 45.
   103 pre-qualified training providers, including an innovative partnership with the
    TAMCC.
   Over 240 registered and active employers are currently involved in the Project.
   All programmes included 60 hours of Life Skills Training.
   Over 52 programmes including 12 Level 2 training programmes were conducted
    during the Project lifespan.




                                            31
   The Project required 80 persons to be trained at Level 2 but more than 230 have
    received Level 2 training.
   Over 100 employed youth were trained in Life Skills compared to the project target of
    75
   More than 300 employers participated in the traineeship of the training component
    while the Project target was only 90.
   Interviews with private sector companies involved in the Project indicate that there is
    a premium on workers with certified skills. This applies both to new entrants to the
    workforce and the ‘upskilling’ and certification of existing workers.

Component two - Establishing an occupational standards framework to improve the
quality and value of training

13.     The NTA has a well-established policy framework for Skills training and
certification which includes quality assurance policies and procedures. These are
documented in 6 key documents as follows: i) Learner’s Handbook, ii) Center Approval
Guidelines, iii) Assessment Guidelines, iv) Quality Assurance Manual, and v)
Accreditation Manual, vi) Procedures Manual. A total of 63 Assessors have been trained
in a number of areas including agriculture, information technology, office administration,
and cosmetology. The Project target is 60. In addition, thirty (30) internal verifiers,
thirty-nine external verifiers, 37 facility auditors, and 65 instructors have been trained in
competency-based education and training methodologies. Three Master Assessor
candidates have received their certification also.
14.     Grenada NTA is an active member of the Caribbean Association of National
Training Agencies (CANTA). In May 2013 the NTA received CVQ granting status from
COHSOD. Several active industry lead bodies throughout Grenada.
15.     The NTA vetted 73 occupational standards using local industry lead bodies all of
which have been approved by the GCTVET. The Project target was 68 standards.
16.     Over 103 applications for pre-qualification by training providers were approved in
a wide range of occupational areas including open water diving, building technology,
crop production, youth development, livestock rearing and building and construction site
supervision.

Component three -Institutional Strengthening and Project Management

17.     The Grenada Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training
(GCTVET) was established in law in 2009 with the National Training Agency created as
the operational arm of the Council. The NTA is manned by a small core of technical
professionals. Both the GCTEVT and the NTA continued to operate effectively at the
time of ICR preparation.

18.    The TVET system and project implementation have been closely monitored and
evaluated through in-house monitoring and evaluation and a management information
system (MIS). This aspect of the project has been done in collaboration with St. Lucia
and continues up to ICR preparation.




                                             32
19.     The Project has conducted communication activities aimed at the three major
stakeholder groups - youth, training providers, and employers which has been fairly
successful in getting youths to register for training programmes, getting training
providers to become pre-qualified and fostering the support of the business sector for
traineeship placements and general interest in use of occupational standards and the
benefits of competency-based education and training. The successful implementation of
the communication strategy was achieved.
20.     Project Manager and support staffs were contracted for the duration of the Project.
21.     A Management Information System (MIS) was development and installation of a
unified MIS is completed. This system was developed in collaboration with St. Lucia.

22.    Monitoring and evaluation: The NTA must be commended for providing gender
disaggregated data.

Financing

23.   Costs: The total Project cost was US$3.39 million compared to the original cost
of US$4.48 million (see Table 1).

            Table 1. Project Cost Summary by Component in EC$ and US$
                                                                Original   Original   Actual
    Component Project Cost Summary                               (EC$ )      (US$)     (US$)
                                                                 million    million   million
    1. Skills Training for Unemployed Youth
    1. Skills Training                                             5.59       2.08      1.22
    Subtotal Skills Training for Unemployment Youth                5.59       2.08      1.22
    2. Improving the Policy Framework for Delivering Training
    1. Introduction of Standards, Accreditations & Quality
    Assurance, Certification                                       1.08       0.40      0.25
    Subtotal Improving the Policy Framework for Delivering
    Training                                                       1.08       0.40      0.25
    3. Project Management and Institutional Strengthening
    1. Institutional Strengthening                                 1.13       0.42      0.28
    2. Project Management                                          2.82       1.05      1.45
    3. Public Awareness                                            0.77       0.29      0.19
    Subtotal Project Management and Institutional
    Strengthening                                                  4.73       1.76      3.39
    Total BASELINE COST                                           11.40       4.24      3.39
    Physical Contingencies                                         0.01       0.04         0
    Price Contingencies                                            0.63       0.23      0.00
    Total PROJECT COST                                            12.05       4.48      3.39




                                              33
         24.      Financing Plan

                                Table 2: Project Financing in US$ million

          Funding Source                    Original                      Actual
          Government                          0.90                         0.36
          IDA                                 3.00                         3.06
          Private Sector                      0.60                         0.01
          Total                              4.50 20                       3.39

Performance of the Borrower

25.     Overall the Borrowers performance has been highly satisfactorily. At the start of
the project everything seemed ready for takeoff, a few months into implementation the
economic crisis occurred thus having the Client to revisit the project and make
adjustments to the project component. Throughout the life of the project the cost tables
had to be adjusted on a number of occasions to meet the challenges which we were faced.
The project was therefore executed under abnormal conditions.

26.     Notwithstanding the fact that the Government of Grenada’s contribution towards
the project has reduced when the project was restructured significantly in January 2013 to
address other areas of priority that emerged during implementation.

27.    The Ministry of Education fulfilled its responsibility through ensuring that there
were project staffs throughout implementation of the project.

28.    The PCU’s capacity was placed under tremendous pressure due to changes in the
economic climate. Notwithstanding this the PCU provided timely supervision reports as
required under the project.

29.     The Borrower demonstrated its commitment and ownership of the project through
its responsiveness, its regular project team meetings on the progress of the project led by
the various component focal points and its open collaboration with the World Bank. In
light of the approach adopted by the Ministry through the implementation of the project,
this offers well for the sustainability of those initiatives.

30.     The Borrower has put in place measure for the sustainability of project activities
to continue addressing training and skills needs in Grenada. An important activity
completed to date was closer collaboration with the Ministry of Youth and Sport
Activities. The MYSEA has just launched phase II of the youth program (phase I being
the Skills for Inclusive Growth Project.




20
   This discrepancy in total Project costs ($4.48m in Table 1) and financing ($4.50m in Table 2) originates
in the original Project Appraisal Document.


                                                    34
31.     The Project Advisory Committee [PAC] functioned well in the early years of the
Project.

Performance of the Financiers

32.     Overall the Financier’s performance has been satisfactorily. Despite the
challenges during the Project Financier’s performance was executed with little or no
hitches. During implementation there were ongoing discussions with the Financial
Specialist as well as the Disbursement Officers and the Task Team Leaders on matters
that needed to be clarified. These resource persons were always available and willing to
lend their support and give advice. However this was better executed is the later years of
the Project with the coming on board of the new Task Team Leader.

33.    The Task Team Leader assigned to the Project must be commended for her
high professionalism exhibited throughout implementation of this project which was
executed under extraordinary circumstances. The successes achieved under the
project can also be attributed to the quality of supervision received by the final Task
Team Leader assigned to the Project by the Bank.

34.     The Financier fulfilled its responsibility in a timely manner and was very flexible
in its approach to project implementation in the later years of the Project. At the earlier
years of the project evident of the Bank flexibility was almost absence due to the
reluctance of the Task Team Leader to changes in the domestic economic circumstances.

35.      Financier was diligent in the monitoring of the project implementation however
the midterm review occurred late into project implementation. The Aide Memoires
prepared at the end of each supervision mission was extremely helpful in identifying
activities completed in an effort to facilitate a smooth project implementation. The Aide
Memoires were also very instrumental in assisting the Borrower to plan adequately for
future activities.

36.   The quality of the monitoring executed by the Financier during project
implementation was extremely supportive in assisting the Borrower during project
implementation.

Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Challenges

      Unavailability of reliable labour market information
      Challenges early in implementation to get traineeship placements which hindered
       the startup of programmes
      Impact of downturn in economy on the ability of the targeted sectors to participate
       as anticipated (esp. tourism and construction sectors)
      Inability to respond quickly to changing circumstances during implementation
       due to inflexibility of project procedures/processes




                                            35
      Need for strengthening counseling services. Both the training providers and other
       officials pointed to the need for counseling being an integral part of the training
       program.
      One challenge identified by trainees is the delay in payment of stipend.
      Approval process for spending has too many steps to completion
      Employers were hesitant to pay the stipend citing economic slow-down and lack
       liquid capital. To drive the Project forward the NTA signed a Memorandum of
       Understanding with the Ministry of Youth Empowerment and Sports to pay the
       traineeship stipends.
      Inflexibility of Bank Staff towards changes in the domestic economy in the early
       years of the Project.
      Grenada’s economy was hard hit by the 2008 financial crisis and has struggled to
       rebound. Economic growth at the height of the crisis plummeted to -5.7 percent in
       2009, and was only a modest 1.1 percent in 2011. Construction and tourism
       sectors have been particularly hard hit; several large scale tourism-related
       construction projects identified at the time of Project preparation as a signal for
       the need of a large number of employees with Level 1 skills training did not
       materialize.
      Due to the impact of the economic crisis, trainees have been challenged in finding
       and keeping employment.
      The economic downturn has significantly affected private sector companies’
       ability to offer traineeships which under the Project’s training model are an
       essential complement to classroom training. Firms that have weathered somewhat
       the economic downturn and remained participants in the Project are taking on
       fewer trainees than originally anticipated. They have been unable to pay trainee
       stipends and also hesitant to take on trainees that live far away without reliable
       transportation. In parallel, the introduction of a Value Added Tax is driving an
       increase in the cost of training, and the Government’s ability to meet its portion of
       the trainee stipend has been diminished.

Lessons Learned

37.     Project design should allow for flexibility during implementation phase so that the
project has the ability to respond quickly to changes in the environment.

38.     The need for effective coordination of all local training programmes to minimise
the risk of similar activities implemented simultaneously activities.

39.   The collaboration with other countries executing similar initiatives had provided
tremendous economy of scales and knowledge that will go beyond the life of the Project.

40.    The need to ensure that training facilities are adequately equipped.

41.    Better projection of economic climate needed during project preparation.

42.    The need to develop a system to gather labour market intelligence.



                                            36
Proposed Arrangements for Future Operation of the Project

43.     The financing for the NTA's activities has already been fully absorbed via the
Government's budget. The NTA operating expenses have been included in the budget for
the Financial Year 2013/14.In this regard adequate budgetary allocation for the NTA has
been made. It was agreed that in addition to the Government budget allocation, the NTA
would explore other options for generating, income including through charging for some
services. In this regard, the NTA has already commenced charging for services. At the
end of the Project the NTA remains fully staffed and all expenses in relation to same are
fully met. The marketing of the Project continues at certification is now a household
name throughout Grenada. Several of the activities under the Project have been fully
adopted by the Ministry of Youth, this includes the adoption and extension of the Life
Skills Manual developed under the Project. In an effort to facilitate the initiatives started
under the Project, the NTA has already developed a three year Strategic Plan which will
serve as the main priority for the next three years. The MIS developed under the Project
can serve as a medium whereby project beneficiaries can be monitored both within
country and within the region.




                                             37
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
                          Not Applicable




                                38
                          Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Alcala Gerez, A. (2009), Financing Agreement, C4534-GD Conformed. Washington, DC: World Bank.
    (http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2009/03/10375981/financing-agreement-c4534-gd-
    conformed)
Bassi, M., Busso, M., Urzúa, S. and Vargas, J. (2012), Desconectados: habilidades, educación y empleo en
    América Latina, Inter-American Bank, Washington, DC.
Fazio, M. V. (2011), Análisis de la percepción de los empleadores acerca de las pasantías y las
    perspectivas de inserción laboral en esas empresas, Technical Note IDB-TN-240, Inter-American
    Development Bank, Washington, DC.
Government of Grenada (2013), 2013 Budget Statement, Presented by Dr. the Rt. Hon. Keith C. Mitchell,
    Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and energy, St. George’s, Grenada.
Heckman, J., Stixrud, J. and Urzua, S. (2006), “The Effects of Cognitive and Noncognitive Abilities on
    Labor Market Outcomes and Social Behavior,” Journal of Labor Economics, 24: 3 (July), p. 411-482.
Martínez, S. (2011), Impact Evaluation of Domenican Republic’s Juventud y Empleo, Mimeograph Report,
    World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Mwenda, Edith R. (2013), Official Documents - Second Amendment to the Financing Agreement for Credit
    4534-GD. Washington, DC: World Bank.
    (http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2013/03/17573438/official-documents--second-
    amendment-financing-agreement-credit-4534-gd)
Mwenda, Edith R. (2011), Amendment to Financing Agreement for Credit 4534-GD Conformed.
    Washington, DC: World Bank.
    (http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2011/04/14361637/amendment-financing-agreement-
    credit-4534-gd-conformed)
New National Party (2013), Manifesto 2013, St. George’s, Grenada.
World Bank (2008-2013), Grenada - OECS (Grenada) Skills for Inclusive Growth Project. Aide Memoires,
    Implementation Status Results Reports (ISRs) Sequences 1 to 11, and other documents in Project Files,
    Washington D.C. - The World Bank.
World Bank (2011), World Bank Education Strategy 2020: Learning for All - Investing in People’s
    Knowledge and Skills to Promote Development, Washington D.C. - The World Bank.
    9http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/TOPICS/EXTEDUCATION/0,,contentMDK:22474
    207~menuPK:282402~pagePK:210058~piPK:210062~theSitePK:282386,00.html0
World Bank (2011), OECS Countries - (Grenada) Skills for Inclusive Growth Project: Restructuring.
    Washington D.C. - The World Bank.
    (http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2011/04/14048290/oecs-countries-grenada-skills-
    inclusive-growth-project-restructuring).
World Bank (2011 b), Strengthening Skills and Employability in Peru, Labor Skills Programmatic AAA
    Final Report, Report No. 61699-PE, Washington, DC.
World Bank (2010), Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) - Regional partnership strategy for
    the period 2010 - 2014. Washington D.C. - The World Bank.
    (http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2010/05/12298466/organization-eastern-caribbean-states-
    oecs-regional-partnership-strategy-period-2010-2014)
World Bank (2008), Grenada - OECS (Grenada) Skills for Inclusive Growth Project. Washington D.C. -
    The World Bank.
    (http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2008/12/10143567/grenada-oecs-grenada-skills-inclusive-
    growth-project)
World Bank (2007). St. Lucia - OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Project (Adaptable Program Lending),
    Washington D.C. – The World Bank.
    (http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2007/04/12329910/st-lucia-oecs-skills-inclusive-growth-
    project-adaptable-program-lending)
World Bank (2005), Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) - Country Assistance Strategy.
    Washington D.C. - The World Bank.
    (http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2005/09/6227004/organization-eastern-caribbean-states-
    oecs-country-assistance-strategy)




                                                   39
                        Meetings Conducted during ICR Mission
Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development - MoE
Theresa Bowen, Permanent Secretary
Pauline Finlay, Former CEO
Peron Johnson, Skills for Inclusive Growth Project, Project Manager
Pauline St. Paul, Students Support Services Unit, Acting Director
Pearson Stroude, Guidance and Counseling Dept., Head
Imi Chitterman, Information Technology
Ministry of Youth, Sports and Ecclesiastic Affairs
Veda Bruno Victor, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth, Sports and Ecclesiastic
Affairs
National Training Agency - NTA
Lincoln Morgan, National Training Agency, Chief Executive Officer
Shevon Licorish, Monitoring and Evaluation, National Training Agency
Trainees
Sue Marie Lewis, garment production
Tahira Brown, housekeeping
Ursulla Lorainey, garment production
Reesa Regis, data operation level 2
Delon Davidson, general construction
Omari Noel, general construction
Kenika Francis, graphics design
Deseree Sandy, data operations
Micah Joseph, general security
Dilys George, general cosmetology
Dwight Smart, bartending
Employers
Cecil Baptiste, Windward Supplies Plus
Adam DeCaul, Deco Industries
Evadne Bartholomew, garment production
Trevor Xavier, Grenada Rechnical and Allied Workers Union
Nigel Mathlin, Adua Design Inc.
Augustine David, Public Workers Union
Ruth Joseph, garment production
Pancy Cross, Grenada Hotel and Tourism Assoc.
Training Providers
Chifford Browne, graphic design
Ruth Joseph, garment production
Wilma Forteau, cosmetology
Beverly Grey, data operation, general office
Dean Jules, cricket pitch and outfield maintenance
Gabriel Clarke, crop and livestock production level 2
Andrew Belfor, building construction
Christopher Stroude, industrial security and basic construction
Fredel Halley, general office administration
Karen Mapps, general office administration, data operations


                                          40
Neilon Alexis, general office administration, data operations
Evadne Bartholomew, garment production
Maria Bennett, housekeeping
Hilary Lawrence, data operations 1 and 2
Raphael Sylvester, restaurant services
Genel Forteau, cosmetology
Certified Labor Skills Assessors
Annette St. Louis, garment production, fashion design level 2
Lloyd Panchoo, agriculture: livestock rearing; crop production levels 1 and 2
Gabriel Clarke, agriculture: crop production
David Duncan, data operations level 1 and 2
Princess Ettienne, general office administration
Alford Tannis, electrical installation levels 1 and 2; general construction level 5
Yolande LaBarnie, general office administration
Kingsley Charles, carpentry: furniture making
Kellisha Granger-Peters, general office administration
Sebbe C. Greenidge, food services; cosmetology
Beverly Pannotta, garment production
World Bank
Harriett Nannyonjo, TTL




                                             41
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33412
                        61°45'                                                                                                                  61°30'


                                                                                                                                                                                     SAINT VINCENT
                                                                                                                                                                                        AND THE




                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                      GRENADINES




                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                                 I N
                                                                                                                                                                                             Petit
                                                                                                                                                                                       Martinique
                            GRENADA




                                                                                                                                                D
12°30'                                                                                                                                                                                                         12°30'




                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                     Hillsborough




                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                                                                                                      Grand Bay




                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                                                         CARRIACOU




                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                             Carriacou




                                                                                                                                G
                                                                                                                                                                 Saline Island

                                                                                                                                                              Frigate Island

                                                                                                                                                         Large Island




                                                                                                                         E
                                       Caribbean


                                                                                                                       H
                                          Sea
                                                                                                                     T
                                                                                              Diamond Island
                                                                                                                                Les Tantes

                                                                                                                       Ronde
                                                                                                                       Island
                                                                                                                       Caille Island



                                                                                                                London Bridge
12°15'                                                                                                                                                                                                         12°15'


                                                                                         Sauteurs               Caille Island
                                                                                               Levera              Sandy Island
                                                                                                Pond
                                                                                                           Grenada
                                                       SAINT                                               Bay                    Bird Island            0   1       2   3   4   5    6 Kilometers
                                                                                        ck
                                                                                    t
                                                                               ri




                                        Victoria
                                                       MARK                t. P a                 Lake
                                                                            SAINT
                                                                       S
                                                    S t.




                                                                                                 Antoine
                                                                                                                                                         0       1       2       3     4     5       6 Miles
                                                      Ma




                                                                           PATRICK
                                                        rks




                            Gouyave                                                                  Tivoli
                                                                     Mt. Saint                                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                     Catherine                                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                     (840 m)                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                       SAINT                                              Paradise                                                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                   Grand Roy                                                                             Great River
                                       JOHN                                              Gr
                                                                                           eat           Bay
                                                                                                    Grenville                                   61°30'
                                                                                                Grenville
                                                                    SAINT                         Bay
                               Beau
                                   s
                                                                   ANDREW                        Marquis      Grenada
                                                                                                                                                                 GR E N A D A
                                                           Grand
                                   ej




                                       ur                  Étang
                                       o




                                                                   South
                                            Vendôme                East Mt.
                                 SAINT                             (716 m)

                                GEORGE                 SAINT                                                                                                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
          ST. GEORGE'S
                  Belmont                              DAVID           Saint David's                                                                                     PARISH CAPITALS
               Grand Anse                             Corinth                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
                  Bay
                                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS
                                        Calivigny
  Point                                                                                                                                                                  MAIN ROADS
Salines                                                                                                                                12°00'
                                                                                                                                                                         PARISH BOUNDARIES
Glove Island                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                        61°45'

                                                                                                                                                                                                        DECEMBER 2004
