Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13867-MK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
MARCH 21, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Denars (Dm)
US$1       =     45 Dm (March 1, 1994)
US$1             40 Dm (October 31, 1994)
US$1       =     42 Dm (December 31, 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m     =      meter (3.281 feet)
km    =      kilometer (0.621 mile)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT         -      Average Annual Daily Traffic
BOALS        -      Basic Organization of Associated Labor
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU           -      European Union
FESAC        -      Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
GTZ          -      Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Agency for Technical Cooperation)
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
MTC          -      Ministry of Transport and Communications
MUDCEE    -         Ministry of Urban Development, Civil Engineering, and Environment
PMS          -      Pavement Management System
RME          -     Road Maintenance Enterprise
RO           -     Republican Road Organization of the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia
SAD          -      Single Administrative Document
SIZ          -     Siz za Ceste (Community of Interest for Roads)
UN           -      United Nations
UNCTAD    -         United Nations Commission for Trade and Development
VOC          -      Vehicle Operating Cost
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA -- FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN  AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ...............................    i
I.  THE ECONOMY  AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ...... ..1.......... 
A. Background .........................................  1
B. The Transport Sector  ...........                   .......................    2
Transport Sector Issues ...............................    3
C. Bank Assistance Strategy  ................................    4
D. Past Bank Experience ...........                    .......................    5
II. THE HIGHWAY  SUBSECTOR  ................................    5
A. Network and Traffic   .             .................................    5
B. Road Transport .          .....................................    7
C. Road Safety  .       .......................................    8
D. Highway Administration and Organization   .....................   9
E. Planning  ..........................................   10
F. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance   ....................  11
G. Highway Expenditures and Financing  ........................  12
III. THE PROJECT   .........................................   13
A. Background  . .......................................   13
B. Project Objectives  .          ...................................   14
C. Project Description .           ................................... 14
D. Engineering and Status of Project Preparation  ...................  14
E. Cost Estimates  .         .....................................   16
F. Project Financing ...................................... 18
G. Implementing and Monitoring  .............................   18
H.   Procurement     .......................................    18
I.   Disbursements    .......................................    21
J. Project Supervision and Reporting ........                 ...................  22
K. Environmental Impact . .................................  22
L. Accounts and Audit .................................... 23
This document is based on the findings of a mission to the Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia in October 1994, consisting of Mirtha Pokorny (Task Manager); Charles J. Lane
(Sr. Highway Engineer); Viren Sirohi (Environmental Specialist); Marcelo Minc (Transport
Specialist). The report also incorporates the findings on trade facilitation of a subsequent
mission comprising Mr. James Walsh (IMF). Peer reviewers were Jacques Cellier (LAlIN)
and Guillermo Ruan (LA2IE). The division chief is Ricardo Halperin and the department
director is Rachel Lomax.



IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                   ...............            ..................  23
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries  ...............................  23
B. Cost and Benefits  ....................................  23
C. Overall Evaluation and Risks  .............................  24
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ......................  25
ANNEXES
1. Past Bank Assistance to the Sector  .............................  26
2. The Trucking Industry    ...................................    28
3. Outline Terms of Reference for Pavement Management System   ....                 .......   36
4. Project Implementation Plan (PIP)   ............................    38
5. Disbursement Schedule ....................................    45
TABLES
2.1 Investment Program  and Financing Plan .........................   46
4.1 Economic Evaluation - Costs and Benefits (Denars) ..................    48
MAP: IBRD 26331R - FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republican Road Organization of the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia
Guarantor:               Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Executing Agencies:      Republican Road Organization of the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia (RO); Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC); Ministry of Urban Development,
Civil Engineering, and Environment (MUDCEE); and
Customs Agency.
Beneficiaries:           Project benefits would accrue to the economy as a whole. The
reduction of transport costs expected from the project would
increase the competitiveness of the country's goods. In the
short run, the project would help to alleviate the impact on
transport costs of the disruption of traffic in the Balkans.
Loan Amount:             US$24.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Objectives:      The main objectives of the project are to assist the
Government to: (i) address the crisis created for transport in
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia caused by the
closure of the Serbian and Greek borders, through the
facilitation of East-West transport so as to reduce transport
costs; and (ii) strengthen the road management capabilities of
MTC, MUDCEE and RO, particularly in the area of planning
and pavement management.
Project Description:     The project would have three components: (i) the civil works
component would improve the country's access to the ports of
Bulgaria and Albania through the rehabilitation and upgrading
of about 60 km of the East-West Corridor; (ii) the transit
facilitation component will fund technical assistance and
equipment for the development and implementation of a



ii
modem customs system and the improvement of transit times;
and (iii) the institutional strengthening component will fund
technical assistance and training to strengthen MTC,
MUDCEE and RO in the area of economic evaluation of
different road interventions and life-cost planning for
pavement management.
Project Benefits:         The proposed project will facilitate the international movement
of goods and passengers through the reduction of transport
costs in one of the main export-import corridors in the
country. This will be accomplished by reducing congestion in
the Tetovo-Gostivar road section, decreasing the present value
of road expenditures in the Kichevo-Botun road section by
rehabilitating the road now and avoiding more expensive
reconstruction at a later date, and reducing border crossing
waiting time by incorporating modem customs procedures.
The technical assistance component is also expected to
improve the allocation of the scarce national resources.
Project Risks:            The project does not present any technical or environmental
risks. The main risk is related to the fragile political and
economic situation facing the country, which may impact the
availability of counterpart funds. That risk, however, is
within acceptable levels because of the high priority of the
road works, the historic financial independence and solvency
of RO, the small share that the proposed investments represent
in RO's budget, and the amount of retroactive financing
proposed for the project. There are also risks related to the
possible lack of coordination among the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Albania and Bulgaria, to improve
border crossings, thus reducing the expected benefits. This is
mitigated by ongoing agreements, that are being implemented
satisfactorily. In addition, the current presence of the Bank in
the transport sector of the three countries, provides an
opportunity for encouraging systematic tri-lateral performance
monitoring at the borders, which would further reduce that
risk.
Economic Rate of Return:  About 20% for the civil works component.



iii
Estimated Project Cost and Financing Plan*
(US$ million)
Proiect Cost                         Local       Foreign     Total
---------------US$ million------------
Road and Bridge Works
- Tetovo - Gostivar                10.70         16.05       26.75
- Kichevo - Botun                   3.39          5.08        8.47
- Supervision by RO                0.62           0.00        0.62
Subtotal                      14.70         21.13       35.84
Technical Assistance
for Trade Facilitation           0.00           0.83        0.83
for Road Management              0.00           0.72        0.72
Subtotal                       0.00          1.55        1.55
Equipment and Materials
for Trade Facilitation           0.00           0.91        0.91
for Road Management System       0.00           0.41        0.41
Subtotal                       0.00           1.32       1.32
Total                              14.70          24.00      38.70
* Differences due to rounding
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign     Tota1
---------------US$ million-------------
World Bank         0.0        24.0         24.0
Government        14.7          0.0        14.7
Total             14.7        24.0         38.7
Estimated Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year          96          97          989
Annual                  11.3*         5.2          5.2        2.3
Cumulative              11.3         16.5         21.7       24.0
* Includes US$10 million for retroactive financing of expenditures incurred after
September 9, 1991.






FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
I. THE ECONOMY AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.1         The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is a small, landlocked economy
with a population of 2.2 million people. Population growth is just under 1 % per year, and
per capita income in 1993 was US$780, down from US$1,360 in 1990. Past policies
emphasizing industry have made this a dominant sector constituting 47% of GDP; services
constitute about 38%, and agriculture 15%. The economy of the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia is also very open (annual exports and imports equal nearly 65% of
GDP) and hence extremely vulnerable to any impediments to its external trade.
1.2         From its inception three years ago following the breakup of Yugoslavia, in
common with other countries undergoing transition to market economies, the country has
had to face large-scale dislocation in production, employment and social welfare. Also,
economic management in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been vastly
complicated by the United Nations (UN) trade and transit sanctions against former
Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and by the closure of its southern border by Greece
which deprive it of its access to Salonika, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's
closest and most economic outlet to the sea. The country had therefore to rely on
alternative routes which substantially increased transport costs. Together all these factors
have brought wrenching changes in the economy, involving persistent drops in output (13%
each year in 1990-93) and rising rate of unemployment (from 23% in 1990 to 29% in
1993) at the same time as various subsidies were cut and prices soared (annual inflation
averaged 407% during 1990-93).
1.3         The Government's ongoing stabilization program combines an incomes
policy, tight monetary stance, a flexible exchange rate regime, and domestic resource
mobilization, the latter involving reduction of distortionary expenditures--e.g., agricultural
input subsidies--as well as efficient revenue enhancement measures. These efforts pulled
the country back from the brink of hyperinflation in 1993 and, in 1994, have lowered
inflation and enabled the authorities to stay well within targeted performance agreed with
the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Structural policy reforms already in place include
liberalization of trade and pricing policies; a major tax reform involving rationalization of
income and sales tax; passage of two laws to advance privatization and establishment of a
proactive task force to restructure important public enterprises.



2
1.4         Despite commendable initiatives to date under very difficult conditions, the
country still faces a long, hard agenda of industrial, financial and social sector reforms
necessary to establish a coherent policy and institutional framework for sustained growth
and poverty reduction. The country has been engaged in a policy dialogue with the Bank
and the IMF and appears prepared to deepen economic reforms over the medium term. Its
medium-term growth prospects will critically depend also on availability of sufficient
external finance.
B. The Transport Sector
1.5         The main transport infrastructure in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia consists of 8,216 km of roads (of which about 4,900 are paved), a railway
network of 700km, and two international airports in Skopje and Ohrid. The primary road
network, under the jurisdiction of the RO, is 3,526 km long and carries about 75% of the
country's freight traffic. Until Greece closed its borders, the railways concentrated on the
transport of low-value bulk commodities to and from the port of Salonika in Greece. The
configuration of the transport system was influenced by geopolitical considerations of the
former Yugoslavia, which emphasized the development of the North-South Corridor (namely
the Trans-Yugoslav Highway) which was developed with Bank financing (para. 1.15).
1.6         The development of the East-West corridor, although growing in importance
for domestic traffic and as a feeder of the North-South artery, was hampered by the political
and economic isolation of Albania, which until 1992 prohibited transit through its territory,
and to some extent, by the administrative difficulties of crossing Bulgaria and the commercial
relations and practices inherent to the centrally planned economies. The situation has now
changed: the North-South corridor is closed due to the UN-imposed blockade of
Serbia/Montenegro and unresolved issues with Greece. As a result, the port of Salonika no
longer serves the landlocked former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.  Road transport
through the East-West road corridor has now become the lifeline of the country's economy.
Although the Government is planning to complete the East-West rail link to Bulgaria (para.
1.8), the road corridor is now the only connection of the country with the rest of the world.
The road subsector is discussed in detail in Chapter II.
1.7         Macedonian Railways consists today of a 700km network employing a staff of
about 5,300 for basic services, down from more than 6,600 employees in 1989. Staff
reductions are largely the result of attrition and an early retirement scheme. The railway
company is also in the process of privatizing other non-core enterprises (employing 2,500 to
3,000 persons) for forwarding services, trucking, tourism, etc. Freight movements in 1990
were about 6.5 million tons a year, but the volume in 1993 was down to 3.4 million (all
local traffic), as services to the port of Salonika were interrupted. Even in the past, the
railways made significant operating losses, partly because rail tariffs were set at levels well
below costs. Although operating losses are now not substantial, the balance has been
achieved by an unsustainable reduction of maintenance. Also, because of uncollected
receivables, the railways have a cash flow deficit of about US$1 million per month, financed



3
through short-term borrowing. Access to loans, however, will be curtailed in 1995, and the
railways are looking at ways to address this issue through increased tariffs. In the medium-
term, the economic role of the railways should be assessed and unprofitable lines and/or
services should be discontinued. The Government, as part of its economic restructuring
program, is planning to privatize ancillary services and to clearly separate commercial
activities from those social services requiring direct subsidies.
1.8          The railway company is also considering to construct a 60 km rail link to
Bulgaria as part of the government's plan to diversify land transport links with neighboring
countries. The cost of this link has been estimated at some US$1 10 million. The German
Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) is financing a feasibility study of this project which
is to be completed by mid-1995.
Transport Sector Issues
1.9          One of the main problems of the sector is to evaluate the future volume and
pattern of traffic demand. The shift to a market economy is likely to result in less emphasis
on transport intensive industries, such as minerals, and more on higher value added light
industry, such as textiles and agro-industry. The latter will require lower transport volumes
and are more likely to use road transport than rail transport. The comparative advantage of
the country in the production of perishable goods, will also result in increased demand for air
transport, an area in which the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)
is providing support. '
1.10         Within this uncertain environment, the transport sector agenda is being
dominated by two main issues, the crisis generated by the blockades in Serbia/Montenegro
and Greece and the resulting emergency movement of trade through Albania and Bulgaria
(the East-West corridor), and the future role of the railways in the country's economy. The
first government priority is to address the current crisis and upgrade the East-West road link,
an objective that will be supported under the proposed project. Also the Government is
considering completion of the railway link with Bulgaria (para. 1.8) and construction of an
oil pipeline from the port of Burgas. In addition, as part of the preparation of the proposed
Bank-financed Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC), which will focus
on the restructuring of the 25 highest money-losing enterprises in the country, consultants
have been retained to prepare a short-term cost reduction program and a medium-term
business plan to turn the railways into a commercially-oriented enterprise.
1 .11        Border crossing remains a major bottleneck in East-West traffic due to lack of
physical facilities and cumbersome procedures.  Efforts to improve regional trade are taking
place in an active framework of consultation and coordination under the auspices of the G-24
Group and the European Union (EU). The Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of
1/    A growing transport of perishable goods is currently taking place through a road corridor linking the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to Bulgaria, Romania and Central Europe. Emergency border
crossing procedures have been established throughout the corridor.



4
Macedonia, in particular, is taking important steps to reduce the cost imposed by long
waiting times and resulting idleness of vehicles and goods. Physical facilities are being
improved with bilateral financing. They include increased parking spaces, special lanes for
empty vehicles and adequate inspection facilities. A study carried out by the US Customs
Agency as part of bilateral US technical assistance to the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, identified a program of investments and technical assistance to modernize and
improve customs procedures, which served as the basis for the transit facilitation component
to be financed under the project (para 3.7).
1.12        Being a landlocked country, international trade for the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia involves significant use of neighboring ports. Therefore, interface
with Bulgarian and Albanian ports and concerted efforts at the borders to facilitate traffic to
and from the ports should be major elements in the country's transport strategy. The
Governments of Albania, Bulgaria and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are
taking significant steps to improve trade flows, as reflected in several bi-lateral and multi-
lateral agreements and protocols related to border crossings and to the use by the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia of the port facilities in Durres and Burgas. Also, the
ongoing Transport Project in Albania, Credit 2499-ALB, includes the preparation of a master
plan for the port of Durres which will address the issue of port facilities to serve the needs of
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. However, much remains to be done in terms
of establishing a systematic dialogue on common trade problems, identifying and
implementing remedial actions and monitoring performance. The proposed project, coupled
with the ongoing Bank presence in the transport sectors of Albania and Bulgaria, will provide
an opportunity for encouraging and enhancing tri-lateral cooperation in transit facilitation.
C. Bank Assistance Strategy
1.13        The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia became a member of the Bank,
IDA and IFC on December 30, 1993 (effective February 25, 1994) upon fulfillment of the
requirements of succession approved by the Executive Directors, including an agreement on a
plan to clear the country's arrears to the Bank. Arrears clearance took place in February
1994, after which an Economic Recovery Loan/Credit (ERL I) was approved. The Bank's
assistance strategy is focused on the following four main areas: (i) inducing a rapid
development of the country's private sector through a series of adjustment operations targeted
mainly at the enterprise, banking and the social sectors; (ii) developing the country's human
resources in a sustainable way; (iii) maintaining the country's infrastructure, and (iv)
protecting the country's natural resources and environment. The strategy emphasizes short-
term economic objectives, in particular meeting the balance of payment shortages, deepening
the economic restructuring, and strengthening the social safety net. This objective will be
supported by the proposed FESAC and the proposed Social Reform and Technical Assistance
Project, which are in an advanced stage of preparation, and by the retroactive financing
proposed herein (para. 3.16). In addition, the Bank is chairing a Consultative Group
designed to mobilize additional financial resources, which are critical to the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia's ability to overcome its depressed situation. With respect to the
country's infrastructure, the Bank strategy is based on the premise that developing the
transport sector capacity through restoring and diversifying trading routes will have a



5
revitalizing impact in the country's economy. Its immediate objective would be to upgrade
the East-West transport links and to improve access to naval ports in order to address the
present emergency due to the interruption of North-South traffic, in a manner consistent with
national priorities should trade and transport in the region once again be normalized
(para. 4.4). The proposed project has been designed to implement this strategy.
D. Past Bank Experience
1.14        The Bank has made 25 loans for transport to the former Republic of
Yugoslavia totalling US$ 1.7 billion equivalent since 1963. These include thirteen loans to
the highway subsector (Annex 1), eight loans for the railway subsector, one loan for the port
of Bar, a multimodal loan for earthquake rehabilitation, and two pipeline projects.
1.15        The main emphasis in early highway lending had been on improvement of key
links in the primary road network, mainly the completion of the Trans-Yugoslav Highway.
Successive Project Completion Reports indicate that the projects were successful in achieving
their objectives, albeit with delays due to shortages of local funds. Subsequent lending
followed a sector approach and included a deeper involvement in the important areas of road
maintenance, road pricing and systematic use of cost-benefit analysis in road planning.
Annex 1 provides details of those projects which directly benefitted the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Network and Traffic
2.1         Historic trade routes, the waves of invading armies and the very rugged terrain
have all played a part in the location and development of roads in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia. The present main highway alignments follow the old trade routes
and mountain passes to provide land connections between Europe and the East. The Romans
were first to build engineered roads and, although rebuilt under the Ottoman Empire and
improved under Napoleon, the alignments of these major roads have changed little and still
provide the most important land transportation links between the Adriatic and Black Seas and
Europe and the East.
2.2         Road Network. The road network totals 8,216 km of which some 4,900 km,
or about 60%, have been modernized and about 3,300 still have earth surfacing. Roads are
classified as Arterial, Regional and Local. Of the total network, 915 km are Arterial, 2611
km are Regional and 4,690 km are Local. In addition to the national classification, about
520 km of the arterial roads are part of the European road network ('E' Roads). The
following table shows the length of each category and the percentage of each classification
which has been modernized. The Arterial and Regional roads are the responsibility of the
RO and Local roads are the responsibility of the municipalities.



6
Class     |  Total length         Modem              Earth             % of
Carriageway       Carriageway     Modernization
km                km
Highway                   104              104                  -             100
Arterial with            811               784                 27              96
single c-way
915               888                27               97
Regional                2611              2094               517               80
Local                   4690              1958              2732               42
Total                    8216             4940              3276               60
2.3          The arterial network serves seven major corridors in the country. The most
important corridor is served by the 174 km arterial Road No. 1, a section of the Trans-
European E-75 highway, which runs roughly north-south across the country from the border
with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) to the border with Greece
(Map IBRD 26331). This road is the spine of the system and was the most heavily trafficked
road up to 1990. About 91 km of this road have been upgraded to highway/expressway
standard and the construction of an additional 5 km is underway. The next most important
arterial road serving international and national traffic is the East-West corridor, the subject of
this project. The 302 km road runs from the Bulgarian border at Deve Bair through Skopje,
Gostivar and Ohrid to the Albanian border and connects Skopje with Sofia, capital of
Bulgaria, and Tirana, capital of Albania as well as linking the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia with ports on the Black and Adriatic Seas. The third most important corridor is
also in an East-West direction and is served by a 330 km arterial road which runs from the
Bulgarian border near Delchevo through Veles, Bitola and Ohrid to the Albanian and Greek
borders. This alignment passes through the central region of the Republic but, because of
the very difficult terrain and consequent poor geometric standards, does not serve
international traffic well.
2.4         Traffic. Road transport in and through the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia has been seriously disrupted since the political changes and problems in the
Balkan peninsula. The UN blockade on the countries to the north and the embargo imposed
by Greece have reduced international traffic on the network very substantially and have
changed its pattern and direction. By 1990, the annual average daily traffic (AADT) on the
Arterial Road No. 1 in the north-south direction had reached 7,000 to 10,000, with about
15,000 vehicles per day during the tourist months of July and August. Since the events in
Serbia and Greece, this traffic has been reduced by 50%. However, traffic has increased on
the arterial road running in the east-west direction connecting Sofia, Skopje and the port of
Durres on the Adriatic Sea in Albania. As already mentioned, the road is now the country's
only effective international link. The traffic on this road, which ranged from 1,500 to 5,500



7
AADT along various sections, has increased by about 60% and now ranges from 4,000 to
8,500 AADT. Traffic on the remaining arterial roads ranges from about an AADT of 2,500
to 4,000 and traffic on the regional roads ranges from an AADT of 500 to 3,000.
2.5          Vehicle Fleet. The following table shows the number of motor vehicles
registered each year from 1984 through 1993. Vehicle registration shows a steady annual
growth rate of about 4% from 1984 to 1990. Reflecting the increased reliance on road
transport, the annual growth rate of the vehicle fleet accelerated to more than 10% for the
years 1991 to 1993. Passenger cars amount to about 88% of the present vehicle fleet with
truck and buses representing about 5% and the balance being tractors and trailers.
Type of Motor Vehicles
Year          Total          Passenger      Buses          Trucks         Other
Cars                        l              l
1984          201956         173564         1728           12654          14010
1985          210470         180890         1801           13182          14597
1986          219245         188428         1877           13732          15208
1987          226117         195604         1060           14335          15118
1988          239035         206906         2141           15345          14643
1989          247394         217431         2246           15752          11965
1990          259205         230774         2320           15489          10622
1991          278856         249654         2576           16729           9897
1992          314333         279861         2828           19280          12364
1993          354485         313723         3104           22212          15446
B. Road Transport
2.6         There are three types of trucking in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia: public social sector trucking (self-managed) enterprises,2 own-account trucking
(mostly in social sector industrial and manufacturing firms), and private sector operators.
Social sector firms specialize in long distance and international traffic. Own-account and
private operators, until recently, specialized in local transport. The road freight industry was
heavily regulated until about 1989, through various laws which limited the participation of
2/    Social sector enterprises are firms owned and managed by employees and workers. In past practice, they
enjoyed substantial Government financial privileges and the Government influenced their level of
employment.



8
the private sector (barriers to entry; prohibitions against international transport; more
favorable tax rates and customs duties for social sector firms, etc.). These formal
regulations were reinforced by various social contracts and informal arrangements which
served to divide the market, and by accounting and managerial practices which permitted
social sector firms to operate inefficiently and sustain losses over the long term. In addition,
domestic truck manufacturing was protected in the former Yugoslavia, resulting in the use of
lower quality domestic trucks by many operators. However, the regulations were unevenly
enforced, which coupled with a relatively dynamic private sector, resulted in the private
sector increasing their share of the market (measured in km). The regulatory framework also
resulted in the inefficient growth of own account fleets: domestic producers were able to
take advantage of the country's cost-plus pricing system and buy their own trucks, which
they did not use efficiently, and passed on higher transport costs without penalty under
conditions of excess demand.
2.7         In 1989, the Government of the former Yugoslavia passed a privatization law
affecting several sectors of the economy including transport. The Government in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia continued with these reforms which are currently in place.
They include: permitting the private sector to operate internationally and foreign trucks to
operate inside the country, reducing tariffs and removing regulations on importing foreign
vehicles; equalizing tax rates and enforcement between social sector enterprises and private
sector operators; and separating the accounts of trucking and bus subsidiaries which were
owned by the railways so that they would not benefit from the subsidies received by the
latter.
2.8          The Government is actively working on other issues which would enhance the
efficiency of the trucking industry: complete the privatization of social sector firms; train
road operators in modern management practices; improve credit facilities for vehicle
purchases; increase vehicle leasing arrangements; introduce a computer-based freight
information system; and publicize the merits of a market-based road transport industry
among decision makers. Annex 2 provides further details of the trucking industry in the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
C. Road Safety
2.9          The table below shows the number of road traffic accidents and fatalities each
year from 1984 through 1993. Despite some improvement during 1990 and 1991, the
number of accidents increased significantly in 1992 (+12%) and 1993 (+17%). By
extrapolation, the number of fatalities per million vehicles for 1993 was about 500.
Comparable figures for the U.K. and Germany in 1990 are 320 and 450, respectively.



9
Traffic Accidents Center                 Consequences
Year         Total        On Public    In Urban       Dead         Wounded
Accident     Road          Places       Persons       Persons
1984         2295          816          1479          176          2387
1985         2688          1007         1681          182          2630
1986         2789         1102          1687          196          2891
1987         3305         1123          2182          190          2766
1988         2125          687          1438          168          2392
1989         3086          1060         2026          168          2912
1990         2781          936          1845          207          3066
1991         2281          656          1625          175          3053
1992         2546          794          1752          180          2641
1993         2972          927          2045          170          2801
D. Highway Administration and Organization
2.10        Highway administration in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is
unique. Until the beginning of 1990, the organization followed a pattern laid down by the
Associated Labour Act of 1976 common to all the former Yugoslav Republics, by which a
Community of Interest was responsible for roads policy and its administration, with work
activities being carried out by independent Basic Organizations of Associated Labour
(BOALS). A Community of Interest for Roads, or Siz za Ceste (SIZ), was made up of an
assembly of delegates from entities having an interest in roads, such as trucking enterprises,
factories, and urban and local road communities. Within Federal and Republic laws and
guided by Social Contracts, the assemblies gave policy directives to their Secretariat which
was charged with putting policy into practice. The Secretariat was headed by a Secretary
who was an assembly appointee. With Design, Construction and Maintenance Divisions, the
Secretariat of the SIZ resembled a public works department with the exception that little or
no work was carried out by force account. For planning and design work, the SIZ employed
Highway Institutes; for maintenance the specialized Road Maintenance Enterprises (RMEs)
and for construction, independent contractors.
2.11        In 1990, the SIZs reorganized like most organizations in the former
Yugoslavia to respond to the new Enterprise Law and other constitutional changes, and
became Social Funds for Arterial and Regional Roads. The principal characteristic of these
new Road Organizations (ROs) was that their administration was simplified. The RO, as it



10
remains today, is governed by a managing board of 12 members rather than the much larger
Assemblies which managed the SIZs. The Secretary is proposed by the managing board and
confirmed by Parliament.
2.12         The RO manages the Arterial and Regional roads. The local roads are the
responsibility of the municipal road authorities. The RO has a staff of 26 of which 14 are
qualified professionals such as engineers, economists and a lawyer. They are responsible for
preparing road development programs and financing plans as well as implementing policy
directives given by Parliament. The law requires a feasibility study to be done on all
investment proposals before their inclusion in the development program. These feasibility
studies are usually done by the Highway Institute, an independent agency closely related to
the University. The annual and mid-term development programs are approved by
Parliament.
E. Planning
2.13         The institutional framework and procedures laid down at the central level are
adequate for formulating rational and efficient road development plans if the system is
judiciously used. The existing system allows for orderly reconciliation of top-down
strategies agreed at the Legislature with bottom-up programs representing the proposals of
various communities. Based on these proposals, RO prepares Five-Year Plans and annual
programs for road development for approval and ratification by Legislature. The
administrative process, in principle, is conducive for formulating rational road development
plans. However, actual functioning of the planning procedure is less than adequate.
2.14         Project Preparation and Selection. Investment programs approved by the
Legislature include projects which have not been subjected to proper feasibility studies. At
times, the selection of projects is based on considerations other than economic viability and
efficiency. Even in those cases where feasibility studies have been carried out, the approach
adopted is, at times, inadequate to yield sound results. There are also cases in which
feasibility studies are used to justify a posteriori the investment decisions which have already
been made. Nevertheless, resource constraints which are currently facing the country have
made RO increasingly aware of the need for applying economic criteria in formulating their
investment and expenditure programs. During the implementation of the proposed project,
the Five-Year Highway Investment and Maintenance Plan (1996-2000) will be assessed to
ensure that it is in line with the priority needs of the road network, projected transport
demand, and projected revenues. The Bank has reviewed the 1995-1997 program and found
it satisfactory (para. 2.21). During negotiations. it was agreed that RO shall not carry out
investments for the expansion. upgrading and maintenance of its road network unless it has
been established that such investments are economically viable and environmentally sound.
on the basis of criteria and guidelines satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.1 (a)).
2.15         RO has been contracting feasibility studies for major road investments to local
firms. These studies have been prepared since 1974 in accordance with the Guidelines for
Preparing Highway Feasibility Studies which were developed with Bank assistance.
Individual feasibility studies have, since 1974, incorporated various improvements to the



11
Guidelines although they have not yet been applied in a systematic way. In addition, the
Guidelines were intended primarily for the evaluation of major new construction projects,
whereas many investment decisions involve comparison of different levels of improvement to
existing roads with the possibility of constructing on new alignment. The Guidelines
therefore require updating, in part to incorporate computer models which have been
developed since 1974, techniques for evaluating investments in tourist areas, and
environmental impact assessments. The proposed technical assistance to be financed under
the project will address the strengthening of RO's planning capabilities (para. 3.8).
F. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
2.16         Engineering. In addition to the feasibility studies, contracting firms and the
Highway Institute (acting essentially as consultants to the RO) prepare the detailed
engineering for road projects. In general, they have competent staff and the quality of their
work is satisfactory.
2.17         Construction. Road construction and rehabilitation work is normally done
through unit-priced contracts awarded after competitive bidding. There are four major
contractors in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia who are capable of handling
major works and who are active in the international market. The quality of the work is
generally good but effective site supervision is needed. This supervision is also done by the
Highway Institute, again acting as consultants to the RO. Except for one exception in the
past, no prequalified foreign contractor had been successful in submitting the lowest
responsive bid for Bank financed road projects, during International Competitive Bidding.
This is due to the very competitive prices of the local contractors.
2.18         Maintenance. Maintenance of the arterial and regional roads is done by a
specialized RME, Makedonijapat, with headquarters in Skopje and branches in Bitola, Veles
and Stip. The Managing Director of the RME reports directly to the Secretary of the RO.
Maintenance is scheduled according to the financial plan issued by the RO and maintenance
contracts are awarded annually according to the plan. At present, maintenance priorities are
determined by inspection, which in a small country has produced acceptable results.
Introduction of the Pavement Management System (PMS) will put this on an objective and
scientific basis. The RME is well staffed and equipped. Until recently, maintenance3 of the
highway network has been satisfactory. However, due to a lack of funds during the last few
years, the level of maintenance has declined, creating a substantial backlog of pavement
rehabilitation and strengthening works. Road maintenance capability is high and, with road
maintenance work carried out by RME separate from, but under contract to the RO, there is
a measure of accountability and efficiency associated with a contracting relationship.
3/    The term 'maintenance' includes regular routine, winter, and periodic maintenance including pavement
strengthening.



12
2.19        Before independence, RO was able to obtain assistance with transport
planning, economic evaluation of investments and many technical matters from federal
agencies and national advisers. RO now recognizes the need to implant or improve these
skills within its own organization, in MTC and in MUDCEE in order to incorporate an
intermodal approach and environmental concerns to investment plans and project design. To
this end technical assistance under the project would provide training in (i) transport planning
and feasibility studies; (ii) creation of a highway database including modernized traffic
counting with weigh-in motion capability; and (iii) creation of a pavement management
system (PMS) which would lead to (iv) creation of a master maintenance and rehabilitation
program at network level.
2.20        Technical assistance for all topics except PMS will be provided by individual
experts coordinated by a specialist firm which will develop lecture and training programs in a
range of subjects and, as required, introduce necessary software and training in its use.
Every effort will be made to collaborate with the university and the Highway Institute to
identify local skills to play as full a part as possible in the training program. By ensuring a
high level of local participation the expatriate input can be minimized and it is foreseen that
individual specialists would be in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for a
minimum period. A separate contract will cover PMS development. The concept is for RO
to establish a relationship with a specialist PMS company which will help RO to select a
strategy for PMS development appropriate to a small country and establish an Action Plan.
Once in place, RO would execute the plan, including the acquisition or hiring of necessary
equipment with the assistance of the specialist firm at regular intervals, thus maximizing the
effectiveness of the technical assistance funds (para. 3.9).
G. Highway Expenditures and Financing
2.21        Table 2.1 shows road expenditures for the 1992-1994 period and projected
expenditures for 1995, 1996 and 1997. RO's expenditures on the road network reached a
peak of US$83.1 million in 1991 and as a result of the country's severe economic crisis,
dropped to US$29.6 million in 1992. Estimated expenditures for 1994 are still only about
70% of the 1991 levels, but are expected to recuperate in 1995 and 1996. The stringent
budgetary constraints mostly affected new road constructions. Allocations for pavement
strengthening and road maintenance in 1993 were actually above 1991 expenditures,
reflecting RO's sound policy of giving priority to the protection of existing assets, which are
shown to have a higher rate or retum. These expenditures, however, are not enough to
reduce the backlog of strengthening and rehabilitation required by the aging network. In
1994, estimated expenditures on road construction and reconstruction amounted to about
US$27.0 million, or about 30% of the total expenditures. Road rehabilitation and pavement
strengthening represent 45% and maintenance accounts for the remaining 25%. This
distribution of resources is reasonable considering the existing backlog of works and the need
to bring the network to maintainable conditions.
2.22        Road works are fully financed by road user charges which, until January 1,
1994, were directly deposited in RO's Road Fund. Since then, user charges from fuel are
transferred to RO through the budget. This change in the flow of funds reflects not only the



13
Government's attempt to increase the flexibility of public expenditures, but also the decision
of integrating Transport Sector planning in MTC and MUDCEE. The proposed project is
supporting these efforts by incorporating MTC and MUDCEE in its training component for
road planning (para. 3.8). The following table shows the actual and projected percentage
structure of RO's sources of finance.
REVENUES              1991      1992      1993    1994      1995     1996
(Percentages)
1. Fee derived from fuel  62.9     58.7     64.0    56.5      51.4      59.8
2. Registration Tax      3.5       2.1       11.8    10.3      9.0      10.4
3. Foreign vehicle's tax   3.5     9.7      2.4      2.2       2.1      2.6
4. Road toll             10.7      24.1      12.6    12.2      11.2     12.8
5. Central Gov't. Funds   10.4     5.4      9.2      3.5       3.2      3.8
6. Loans                 9.0       -        -        15.3     23.1      10.6
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.1         The East-West corridor links the port of Durres (Albania) with Skopje, Sofia,
and the port of Burgas in Bulgaria. The need to upgrade the portion of the corridor located
in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to accommodate growing domestic traffic was
being addressed under the Bank's Third Highway Sector Project for Yugoslavia. The loan
was approved by the Bank on June 20, 1990 but was cancelled prior to its effectiveness when
the former Yugoslavia was dissolved. Nevertheless, because of the urgency of the
investments, the RO went ahead with contracting works in three of the four appraised road
sections and is financing them with its own budget. Priority sections of the Albanian part of
the road corridor are being upgraded under the ongoing IDA Credit 2499-ALB, but much of
the road to Durres will remain in poor condition until financing is available under a proposed
new IDA credit to Albania in 1996. The proposed loan effectively reinstates the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's participation in the cancelled loan. The proposed project
has been changed from what had been included in the Third Highway Sector Project to
address the country's major transport need, which is to provide a link to the outside world
through its neighbors, Albania and Bulgaria, in the East-West corridor.



14
B. Project Objectives
3.2          The project's objectives are:
(i)   to address the crisis in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
caused by the closure of the Serbian and Greek borders through the
facilitation of East-West transit so as to reduce transport costs; and
(ii)   to strengthen the road management capabilities of the RO, MTC and
MUDCEE, particularly in the areas of planning and pavement
management.
C. Project Description
3.3          The project would have three components:
(i)   the civil works component will improve the country's access to the
ports of Bulgaria and Albania through the rehabilitation and upgrading
of about 60 km of the East-West Corridor;
(ii)   the transit facilitation component will fund technical assistance and
equipment for the development and implementation of a modern custom
system; and
(iii)  the institutional strengthening component will fund technical assistance
and training to strengthen MTC, MUDCEE and RO in the areas of
economic evaluation of road investments and life-cost planning for
PMS.
D. Engineering and Status of Proiect Preparation
3.4          Civil works component. The road improvement works were included in the
Yugoslavia Third Highway Sector Project. The detailed design for the roadworks had been
completed for that project in accordance with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's
Highway Design Standards which are satisfactory.4
3.5          The existing 19 km 2-lane Tetovo - Gostivar road section crosses the fertile
Polog plain and has 9 at-grade intersections with local roads causing considerable side
friction and accident potential, thus significantly reducing its capacity. There is considerable
4/    An increase in design standards took place prior to the date in which the former Yugoslav Republic of o
Macedonia became a Bank member. The changes in design were subsequently reviewed by the Bank
and found justified on economic and technical grounds.



15
congestion and a high accident rate. The 1993 AADT was about 6,600 with 22% trucks and
buses. Based on an analysis of projected traffic, the design provides for the reconstruction of
the existing carriageway, the construction of an additional 2-lanes, and treatment of
intersections, in some cases by grade separation. The original contract in the amount of
US$17.66 million, was awarded to a firm from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
on the basis of ICB. The design standards were subsequently revised to include the
additional two lanes and work is proceeding on the basis of the unit prices in the original
contract. The estimated total cost of this work is now US$26.75 million including
contingencies, of which US$11.80 million has been expended.
3.6          The present 40 km 2-lane road from Kichevo to Botun is now the principal
bottleneck on the M-26 between Skopje and Ohrid, a popular tourist area and the gateway to
Albania. Because of the poor condition of the pavement over about 31 km of its length, the
flow of traffic on this section is impeded and the accident rate is high. The 1993 AADT of
2,830 is projected to grow to 3,500 by 2005 with about 24% trucks and buses. The existing
road's geometry and width are satisfactory for the design life considered, and the design
provides for the complete rehabilitation of about 11 km and the overlaying and strengthening
with asphaltic concrete of about 20 km of pavement, and improvements to shoulders. Works
were awarded to a firm from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on the basis of
ICB. The total cost including contingencies is now estimated at US$8.47 million of which
US$5.0 million has been expended.
3.7         Transit Facilitation Component. In addition to improving the physical
condition of the road, the Government is taking measures to reduce the waiting time at the
border crossing points. Border crossings remain a major bottleneck due to a lack of physical
facilities and equipment and outdated customs procedures. The physical facilities are being
improved with bilateral funding and the Government's own resources, and the project will
provide technical assistance and equipment such as computers and software, traffic control
and communications and control devices. Customs procedures and information management
will be modernized on the basis of a study carried out by the U.S. Customs Agency in 1993,
but in line with the EU initiative for improvement of border crossings throughout eastern
Europe. The IMF is expected to collaborate in implementing those aspects of the program
related to fiscal issues. The task involves overhauling existing legislation to allow for the
modernization and selectivity of control procedures, including the approach to physical
inspection and the gradual introduction of the internationally used Single Administrative
Document (SAD). The SAD has already been used since January 1, 1994 for goods
transported to inland customs and for goods in transit. The Government with the support of
the European Customs Consortium and the U.S. Customs Agency is preparing draft
legislation to, inter alia, reclassify traded goods to make them consistent with the rest of
Europe and allow for the increased use of SAD. Also, with technical assistance under the
project, the Customs Agency will implement ASYCUDA, a widely used computerized
customs management system developed in Geneva by the United Nations Commission for
Trade and Development (UNCTAD). The system handles manifests and customs
declarations, accounting procedures, warehousing and import and export licenses; it also
generates reliable and timely trade data statistics. The Action Plan for trade facilitation.



16
including the institutional, legal. regulatory. and physical measures to be taken by the
Government to improve border crossings have been agreed during negotiations
(para. 5.1 (b!!-
3.8         Institutional Development Component. In its new relationship with MTC and
MUDCEE, as agencies of a central government, as opposed to an agency of a small
constituent republic of a larger federal system, RO has recognized the need to improve its
planning and management. To this end the project will provide technical assistance and
training to RO, MTC and MUDCEE in setting up modern transport planning, including the
establishment of a highway and traffic database and a PMS; updating the guidelines for
feasibility studies and economic evaluations of investments; and incorporating environmental
concerns in project design. This component will include: (i) assisting RO in the
development and installation of a modern PMS; (ii) economic analysis of road rehabilitation
needs; (iii) the introduction in RO, MTC and MUDCEE of modern transport planning
techniques, including provision and installation of electronic traffic counters/classifiers, of
which one-third will have weigh-in motion capability; and (iv) provision of the hardware and
software, and equipment for collecting data in the field for these systems.
3.9         The technical assistance and training to be provided under the project would
require a total of about 40 staff-months of expertise. A senior highway engineer or transport
economist experienced in the administration of highway departments will be needed
intermittently for a period of about 20 staff-months to help the RO in highway planning, and
maintenance management and similar experts for another 20 staff-months for developing the
PMS. The planning component of the technical assistance will also strengthen MTC's and
MUDCEE's capabilities for investment planning and project design. Outline Terms of
Reference and Action Plan for the introduction of the PMS are given in Annex 3. Outline
TOR for the implementation of the PMS have been agreed with the Government during
negotiations (para 5.1 (c)).
E. Cost Estimates
3.10        Based on September 1994 prices, the estimated total project cost is US$38.70
million, of which US$24.0 million is the estimated foreign component. The proposed IBRD
loan of US$24.0 million would cover the whole foreign cost and would be disbursed over a
four-year period. This is shorter than the standard Bank profile for Highway projects but is
justified by the unique characteristics of this project, which is already being implemented.
The costs are summarized in the table below.



17
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE 1/
Project Component                      Base         Price        Total    Foreign       Foreign      Local
Cos        Contine,       f        Percent L                  Cost
USS millions       --
1.  ROAD AND BRIDGE WORKS
- Tetovo - Gostivar                     26.42         0.33        26.75       60         16.05       10.70
- Kichevo - Botun                        8.16         0.31         8.47       60          5.08        3.39
- Supervision by RO                      0.60         0.02         0.62        0          0.00        0.62
TOTAL                               35.18         0.66         35.84                 21.13        14.70
2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
for Trade Facilitation                  0.81        0.02          0.83      100          0.83        0.00
for Management Systems                  0.70        0.02          0.72      100          0.72        0.00
TOTAL                                 1.51        0.04          1.55                   1.55        0.00
3. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
for Trade Facilitation                 0.90         0.01         0.91       100         0.91         0.00
for Management System                  0.40         0.01          0.41      100         0.41         0.00
TOTAL                                 1.30        0.02          1.32                   1.32        0.00
GRAND TOTAL                            37.99         0.71        38.70        62        24.00        14.70
B' Based on the appraisal exchange rate of US$I - Denar 40. Price contingencies are included on all components at 2.5
percent per annum, and physical contingencies on Item 2 at 10 percent. Includes all local taxes. Differences due to
rounding.
3.11             All costs are quoted in US dollars because of the volatility of the country's
currency, the Denar. As civil works contracts have already been awarded for the two major
road works and work is in progress, the current value of the two principal contracts is
precisely known. Other costs are based on unit rates for technical assistance in the Region
and similar costs for equipment in PMS installations of this type. However, as the equipment
needs will emerge from the work done in planning the institutional component with the
advice of the technical assistance advisors, these amounts should be regarded as budget
figures only for the time being. Price contingencies have been incorporated based on a US
dollar inflation of 2.5 percent p.a. The base costs incorporate physical contingencies and all
local taxes. Local costs include taxes and duties amounting to US$2.8 million.



18
F. Project Financing
3.12        The Borrower will be RO, with onlending to the Customs Agency for the
transit facilitation component amounting to US$1.7 million. The proposed Bank loan of
US$24.0 million would finance about 62 percent of the total project cost of US$38.7 million.
The Government's share will amount to US$14.7 million of which US$6.8 million has
already been spent. Signature of a Fund Sharing Agreement for transferring loan funds to
the Customs Agency under terms satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition for loan
effectiveness (para 5.2 (a)).
3.13        The proposed financing plan is shown below:
Financing Plan:
Local       Forei gn     Total
-------------------US$ million-------------
World Bank          0.0          24.0        24.0
Government         14.7         0L.Q         14.7
Total              14.7          24.0        38.7
G. Implementing and Monitoring
3.14        The RO would be responsible for the execution of the road component of the
project, with some oversight by MTC and MUDCEE for the planning component. The
Customs Agency will be responsible for implementing the trade facilitation component. Two
specialized Government agencies are assisting RO in supervising the two road improvement
contracts. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established in RO, guided by a
government appointed steering committee on which RO, MTC, MUDCEE and the Customs
Agency will be represented, which will assure coordination between agencies. During
negotiations the Borrower agreed to establish the PIU and maintain it adequately staffed and
equipped during the life of the Loan (para. 5.1 (d)). Establishment of the PIU and
appointment of the steering committee will be conditions for Loan Effectiveness (paras. 5.2
(b) and (c)). The Project Implementation Plan (Annex 4) has been agreed during
negotiations (para 5. 1 (e)).
H. Procurement
3.15        Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below. All goods and
works to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would be procured in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement, including amendments as of the loan signing date.
Consulting services would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency,
including amendments as of the loan signing date.



19
Proposed Procurement Arrangements"
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Component              ICB               Other2v  NB F3'           TOTAL
Road Works            35.22                                          35.22
(21.13)                                      (21.13)
Equipment and
Materials              0.80               0.52                        1.32
(0.80)            (0.52)                      (1.32)
Techinal Assistance                       1.55                        1.55
(1.55)                     (1.55)
Road Organization Costs                           0.62                0.62
(0.00)             (0.00)
TOTALS                36.02               2.07    0.62               38.70
(21.93)            (2.07)  (0.00)             (24.00)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank loan.
2' Includes international shopping (US$0.52 million) and selection of consultants according to Bank Guidelines.
3' Not Bank Financed (Road Organization Budget).
3.16          The two road sections under the project were appraised as part of the Third
Highway Sector Project, which was canceled prior to its effectiveness (para.3. 1). Bids had
already been invited prior to loan cancellation. The bidding documents and the
prequalification procedures were reviewed during preparation of the present project and
found acceptable. After a detailed review of the history of these two contracts (total value
US$35.22 million including contingencies), it has been found that all aspects of their bidding,
contracting and subsequent management have been conducted consistent with the Bank
guidelines and, therefore, it is proposed that the Bank reimburse RO retroactively for
expenditures made on these contracts from September 9, 1991 (when the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia became independent). These expenditures amount to 48% of the total
cost of the contracts (paras. 3.5 and 3.6). The proposed level of retroactive financing would
amount to 42% of the loan amount and would constitute an exception to the Bank's 10%
limit. However, because of the unique circumstances surrounding this project, it would not
set a precedent for future operations.
3.17          Consultants' services for technical assistance and training (US$1.55 million
including contingencies) would be carried out by qualified and experienced personnel. The
selection and employment of consultants will be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants and using the Bank's standard contract form for employment of
consultants. For preparation of the Pavement Management System (PMS), the Government
will enter into a contract with a specialist firm which will advise on the introduction of the
system throughout its preparation period, and selected personnel will visit the country on
multiple occasions for relatively short periods of time. The contract will provide for an
initial ten-staff months, and will allow for extension by mutual agreement. For design and
implementation of the new Customs System, a firm will be engaged on a time-based contract.
For technical assistance for transport planning, a contract will be signed with a firm, which



20
will provide lecturers on the range of topics to be included in the program and for on-the job
training for project evaluation. The firm will be responsible for overall planning of the
program and for the provision of lecturers and course materials.
3.18         To date there has been no Country Procurement Assessment, but no LCB is
foreseen under the project. For execution of procurement during the project, RO will
establish a Project Implementation Unit including staff with experience in procurement.
3.19         Vehicles and equipment for pavement testing in the field and computers for
management systems and trade facilitation (US$0.8 million) will be procured through ICB.
Manufacturers from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia competing for the
contracts for the supply of goods procured under ICB would receive a preference of fifteen
percent of the CIF price or the prevailing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers,
whichever is less, provided the Guideline requirements for eligibility for domestic preference
are met. International Shopping (IS), based on comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from three eligible countries, would be used for procurement of
specialized equipment for pavement management estimated to cost less than US$100,000 with
an aggregate limit of US$520,000.
3.20         All contracts for goods and works estimated to cost more than US$100,000
equivalent, and contracts for technical assistance and consultancy services valued in excess of
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to prior Bank review.
Also, terms of reference for all technical assistance and consultancy contracts would be
reviewed in advance by the Bank. The balance of contracts for equipment would be subject
to ex-post review. Agreement to the above procurement arrangements (paras. 3.17 - 3,20)
was reached during negotiations (para. 5.1 (g)).



21
I. Disbursements
3.21         Disbursements of the $24.0 million loan would be made on the following
basis:
Disbursements
Amount                Percent of Expenditure
Category     Description           US$ Million equiv               to be financed
Part I (RO)
I           Civil Works:               19.00                 100 % foreign expenditure and
60 % local expenditure.
2           Equipment and Materials:    0.70                 100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 60% of
local expenditures for items
procured locally.
3           Consultants services        0.40                 100 percent
and Training:
4           Unallocated                 2.16
Total for Part 1          22.26
Part II (Customs Agency)
5           Equipment and Materials     0.80                 100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures
(ex. factory cost) and 60% of
local expenditures for items
procured locally.
6           Consultant Services and
Training                 0.70                  100 percent.
7           Unallocated                 0.24
Total for Part II           1.74
Total                     24.00
3.22         Because of the special circumstances of the project's early history (para. 3.16),
retroactive financing in an amount of US$10 million would be provided to cover the
expenditures made after the date of signature of the Tetovo - Gostivar and Kicevo - Botun
road contracts, which took place after the date of the former Yugoslav Republic of



22
Macedonia's independence, September 9, 1991. Disbursements for contracts for civil works,
goods and services above the contract value of US$100,000 equivalent (US$50,000 for
individual consultants) would be fully documented. All other contracts would be disbursed
against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The supporting documentation would be retained
by the PIU and be made available for review by Bank supervision missions. To facilitate
payments from the loan, a Special Account will be established at a commercial bank in
Skopje that is acceptable to the Bank, which will be managed by RO. The account will have
a maximum size of US$1.4 million, referred to in the Loan Agreement as the Authorized
Allocation, but until the pace of activity on the project justifies a balance of this size, defined
as when the total of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the value of any Special
Commitments made against the Loan are equal to US$12 million, the maximum balance in
the Special Account shall be US$0.7 million. Applications for replenishment of the special
account would be submitted on a quarterly basis or when 1/3 of the amount deposited has
been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. In addition to documentation requirement stated
above, each replenishment application would be supported by monthly bank statements of the
special account which have been reconciled by the PIU. All other applications for direct
payments or Special Commitments must be for an amount not less than 20% of the special
account deposit. Retroactive payments shall be made exclusively for expenditures under the
two civil works contracts and only for certified expenditures subsequent to September 9,
1991, the date of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's independence.  During
negotiations. agreement has been reached on the establishment of the Special Account
(para. 5.1 (f)).
3.23        The Closing Date of the Bank Loan would be June 30, 1999. A Disbursement
Schedule is shown in Annex 5. This is consistent with the relevant historical profile for the
Region, adjusted for the actual start date of construction.
J. Project Supervision and Reporting
3.24        The Borrower has successfully implemented five previous Bank projects, so
two missions a year totaling about eight staff weeks will provide adequate field supervision.
A further six weeks annually are expected to be required for procurement, monitoring, and
reporting in Washington. The RO will submit a report at the end of each quarter, showing
progress in all components and providing details of all procurement activities.
K. Environmental Impact
3.25        The project has been classified as "B" for purposes of O.D. 4.01. The civil
works are mostly confined to improvements within existing rights of way. There would be no
population resettlement nor would the project affect any known archaeological or historical
site. The longitudinal and cross drainage for the roads are properly engineered to eliminate
the possibility of soil erosion. The improved horizontal and vertical alignments, and in the
case of Tetovo-Gostivar, the greater capacity and redesigned intersections, are expected to
greatly reduce accidents. Under clauses in their contracts, the contractors are legally
responsible for maintaining work sites pollution free, restoring ground conditions to their



23
original state and equipping asphalt plants with dust collectors. They are also legally bound
to report to the RO if they encounter historical remains. An environmental analysis of the
civil works made during appraisal, confirmed the adequacy of the mitigating measures being
implemented. The analysis recommended noise screening for six houses which would now
be closer to the edge of the widened road, which has been accepted by RO even though the
houses were illegally built.
3.26         In order to increase awareness of the potential environmental problems from
road projects, the technical assistance for planning would include a course for engineers
covering "The Environmental Aspects of Road Design and Construction". In addition, the
revision of the feasibility study guidelines would ensure the inclusion of an acceptable
Environmental Assessment process in the study of road investments.
L. Accounts and Audit
3.27         Separate accounts would be used to record all expenditures from project funds,
both Government and Loan funds. These accounts, including any SOEs, as well as the
Special Account would be audited each year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
During negotiations the Government agreed to have the accounts of the project audited and to
forward the audit report to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para
5.1 (h)).
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.1          The proposed project would improve the efficiency of the road transport sector
by reducing overall transport costs. Quantifiable benefits will be in the form of vehicle
operating cost (VOC) savings, i.e., lower fuel consumption, tire wear and general vehicle
maintenance costs, and time and wage savings. Also, the present value of estimated future
road expenditures will be reduced by avoiding more expensive interventions at a later date.
4.2          The benefits would accrue to a large and widespread number of beneficiaries.
Lower road transport costs and time savings will benefit vehicle owners as well as users.
Private users such as individual car owners, bus passengers and own account transporters
will capture benefits directly. In the case of trucking and intercity bus services, the benefits
accrue first to vehicle owners, but are expected to be passed to producers and consumers in
the form of lower freight rates and fares, given the competitive nature of the road transport
industry in the country.
B. Cost and Benefits
4.3          Feasibility studies for the works in the Tetovo-Gostivar and Kichevo-Botun
roads were prepared by a local consulting firm following methodologies developed in 1973
with Bank assistance under the previous loans to the former Republic of Yugoslavia and



24
updated in 1994. All costs and benefits were evaluated in constant 1994 prices. Financial
costs and prices have been converted to economic prices. Traffic growth rates for the
Tetovo-Gostivar road have been estimated at 4.3% p.a. until 1996 and 1.1 % thereafter for
private vehicles; about 1.1% p.a. for buses and 3.9% p.a. for freight vehicles. In the case
of the Kichevo-Botun road, there were similar growth rate assumptions, except that bus
traffic was also expected to grow at about 4% p.a. VOC's were calculated as a function of
velocity and subsequently adjusted according to estimates made using the Bank's HDM
model in countries with similar characteristics.
4.4          The economic rates of return (ERR) for the investments in the Tetovo-Gostivar
and Kichevo-Botun roads are 18% and 23% respectively. The economic viability of the road
works is not dependent on the continued interruption of North-South transit. The economic
benefits of the Tetovo-Gostivar capacity expansion, was carried-out with a base traffic of
6900 vehicles per day, a level that was already attained in 1983, when the road served only
domestic traffic. Traffic declined to about 4000 vehicles per day in 1992 and recuperated to
an AADT of about 6900 in 1993. To a great extent, traffic growth in the last few years can
be attributed to the rapid growth of motorization (para. 2.5), and to the opening up of
communications with Albania and Bulgaria. Freight vehicles account for 14% of the total
traffic, of which it would be highly unlikely that more than 50% would be diverted to North-
South connections once the country's situation goes back to normal. In this scenario, the
IRR for the Tetovo-Gostivar road works would drop to 14%. This is a very conservative
estimate of the economic viability of the project, since a resumption of the economic activity
to the levels of the early 80s would more than offset the impact of traffic diversion and
increase the benefits of the project by about 50%. In the case of the Kichevo-Botun road,
traffic diversion would reduce the ERR from 23% to 20%. Table 4.1 presents the costs and
benefits of the road works. Feasibility studies for the road works will be entered in the
project file.
4.5          Although the benefits from developing and implementing a Pavement
Management System are difficult to quantify, the introduction to the RO of tools to optimize
the allocation of resources throughout the life of the road, is expected to result in substantial
savings in road maintenance.
C. Overall Evaluation and Risks
4.6          The project does not present any technical or environmental risks. The main
risk is related to the fragile political and economic situation, which may impact the
availability of counterpart funds. That risk, however, is within acceptable levels because of
the high priority of the road works, the historic financial independence and solvency of RO,
the small share that the proposed investments represent in RO's budget (less than 10%), and
the amount of retroactive financing proposed for the project. There are also risks related to
the possible lack of coordination among the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Albania and Bulgaria, but the present framework of consultation and coordination under the
auspices of the G-24 group and the EU, provides sufficient assurances on the commitment of
these countries to improve border crossings.



25
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1          During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following matters:
(a) that RO shall not carry out investments for the expansion, upgrading and
maintenance of its road network unless it has been established, that such
investments are economically viable and environmentally sound, on the
basis of criteria and guidelines satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.14);.
(b) the Action Plan for Trade Facilitation (para. 3.7);
(c) outline TOR for PMS (para. 3.9);
(d) staffing of PIU (para 3.14);
(e) the Project Implementation Plan (para. 3. 14);
(f) the Establishment of the Special Account (para. 3.22);
(g) procurement arrangements (para. 3.20);
(h) account and audits (para. 3.27)
5.2          Prior to loan effectiveness:
(a) the Borrower and the Government should sign a Fund Sharing Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of the transit facilitation
component (para. 3. 12).
(b) the Borrower should establish the PIU with staffing and equipment
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.14);
(c) the Government should appoint the steering committee with
representatives of RO, MUDCEE and the Customs Agency (para. 3.14);
and
5.3         The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan to the
Republican Road Organization with the guarantee of the Government of the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia in the amount of US$24.0 million at the standard variable interest
rate for a period of 20 years, including a five-year grace period, with repayments calculated
on an annuity basis.



26                             Annex 1
Page I of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
Past Bank Assistance to the Sector
1.          The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia received 13 loans for the
highway sub-sector (11 highway projects and two highway sector projects). A T'hird
Highway Sector Project was cancelled in 1991 due for the break-up of Yugoslavia. The
initial appraisal of road sections included in the project, under the normal traffic conditions,
was performed as part of the appraisal of the Third Highway Sector project. The studies
were later up-dated (July 1994) to establish project feasibility with the changed traffic flow,
resulting from the closing of the southern border by Greece and the UN trade sanctions
against former Yugoslavia. The following paragraphs list past Banks Assistance which
included elements located in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
2.          The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia benefitted from the Third
Highway Project (Loan 608-YU, US$ 30 million), financed in 1969, which comprised about
120 km of roads in Croatia, Macedonia and Slovenia, and was completed in August 1974
with a 20 month delay, primarily due to delays in completing an access road. This project
had an 8% cost overrun due to inflation and foreign exchange adjustments. The Fifth
Highway Project (Loan 751-YU, US$35 million)comprised 153 km of roads in Kosovo,
Macedonia and Slovenia, procurement of US$1.7 million worth of engineering equipment,
consultant's services and a staff training component to improve highway planning and project
preparation. The project was completed by the end of 1977, with a delay of 15 months and
costs overrun of 8%. The Eight Highway Project (Loan 1377-YU), US$56 million) was
made in 1977. The project comprised about 130 km of roads in Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Kosovo. The road works were completed and the loan closed in 1981.
3.          The loan for the Tenth Highway Project (Loan 1678-YU, US$148 million) was
made in April 1979 and became effective in August 1979. It comprised the first phase three-
year tranche (from mid-1979 to mid-1982) of the 1979-85 highway sector programs of five
participating Republics and Provinces. Although progress was variable among the borrowers,
most construction contracts suffered delays of one to two years due to a shortage of local
funds. Construction was essentially completed by mid-1984, but the loan closing date was
postponed to June 30, 1985, to allow for completion of the training component and
procurement of equipment. The project also included an updating of the Road User Charges
Study, financed under the Eighth Highway Project. The loan for the Eleventh Highway
Project (Loan 1819-YU, US$125 million) was made in April 1980 and became effective in
August 1980. It comprised construction of six sections of the Trans-Yugoslav Highway (THY)
with controlled access facility in four Republics and Provinces, including Macedonia, totalling



27                            Annex I
Page 2 of 2
about 164 km, and the procurement of highway maintenance and road monitoring equipment,
technical assistance, a highway safety program and the preparation of a Toll Study. Although
execution was delayed by up to two years because of the shortage of local funds, most
construction items were completed by the revised loan closing date of June 30, 1985. The
Tenth and Eleventh Highway Projects were both implemented during a period of economic
difficulty and budgetary reductions. Because of the severe shortage of local funds, both the
Tenth and Eleventh Highway Projects were included under the Bank's Special Action. Program
in mid-1983. The investment plans were revised, and the projects were then implemented as
planned, albeit with a two year delay. Re-estimated economic returns for both projects were
satisfactory. Several institutional improvements were incorporated in the project including the
creation of a coordinating body for roads at the federal level (FARP), the carrying out of a
road user charges study, and training.



28                           Annex 2
Page 1 of 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
The Trucking Industry
Background
1.           Before 1989, most of the trucks were assigned to a few large vertically integrated
organizations. The trucking industry was heavily regulated through various laws, which limited
the participation of the private sector. In that year, a national privatization law was passed,
liberalizing the trucking industry by abolishing barriers to entry of private sector operators,
allowing international competition, and eliminating favorable tax rates for social sector
enterprises.  Public organizations became then social sector enterprises in the process of
privatization. Additionally, in 1991 the Macedonian Railways, which used to possess their own
road transport fleet from the "combined" (intermodal) transport activities, created four social
sector trucking enterprises.
Organization of the Trucking Industry
2.           Currently, the trucking industry is organized as follows: (a) social sector
enterprises; (b) own-account trucking; and (c) private sector operators.
a)    Social sector enterprises are self managed and receive no subsidies from
the state.  Since 1989, they are all in the transition to full private
ownership, for which they must present privatization proposals to the state
by the end of 1994. There are a few exceptions for the three largest
trucking enterprises, that are allowed until the end of 1995 to present their
privatization plans.
b)    Own-account trucking refers to trucking  fleets owned by specific
industries.  Most of the own-account trucking is performed by the
construction and agricultural sectors.  There are about 2,500 trucks
operating for the construction industry. Agricultural trucks are mainly
small trucks (2-5 ton), which are used to carry fresh produce to the
market.
c)    Private sector operators comprise both companies and individuals and
compete both with the social sector enterprises and with own account
trucking.



29                         Annex 2
Page 2 of 8
3.          Table 1 shows the number of trucks and trailers registered in 1992
Table 1: Registered Motor Vehicles and Ownership (1992)
TRUCKS                   SOCIAL SECTOR             PRIVATE
COMMERCIAL                                       19280                 9960
SPECIAL (mainly construction
and agriculture)                    6011                  1229
TRAILERS                                          6966                  2424
Source: Public Safety Office, Ministry of Internal Affairs
Trucking Associations and International Trucking
4.          There is only one trucking association, which also groups the international road
transporters, the Macedonia Soobrakaj (Association of Macedonian Enterprises for Road
International Transport - AMERIT). There 80 member firms in the association of which
approximately half are private and the other half are social sector enterprises in the process of
privatization.
5.          AMERIT is a member of the International Road Transport Union (IRU), based
in Geneva, and is the agency that issues the "Transport International Routiere" (TIR) certificates
in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. There are a total of 500 TIR certificates in the
country, awarded to firms and individuals, which includes members and no-members of
AMERIT. This accounts for about 7,000 TIR trucks.
Regulations
o.          In 1989 the Government of the Former Yugoslavia passed a privatization law,
affecting several sectors of the economy, including transport. The Government of the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia continued with these reforms, which are currently in place.
They include: permitting the private sector to operate internationally and foreign trucks to
operate inside the country, reducing tariffs and removing regulations on importing foreign
vehicles; equalizing tax rates and enforcement between social sector enterprises and private
sector operators; improving accounting rules to allow for depreciation; and separating the
accounts of trucking and bus subsidiaries which were owned by the railways, so they do not
benefit from the subsidies which railways received in the past.



30                         Annex 2
Page 3 of 8
7.           The Government is still working on other issues so as to improve the efficiency
of the trucking sector such as completing the privatization of social sector firms; training road
operators in modem management practices; increasing vehicle leasing arrangements; introducing
a computer-based freight information system; and publicizing the merits of a market based road
transport industry among decision makers
Technical Inspection and Average Age
8.           Technical inspection of motor vehicles (trucks, car, buses, etc.) is performed by
the Auto Moto Union of Macedonia (AMSM). Trucks and buses are required to do yearly safety
checks. The average age of the trucking fleet is nine years. It is estimated that 90% of the
trucking fleet is manufactured in western Europe mainly Scania (Sweden), Mercedes Benz
(Germany) and Fiat (Italy). The remaining 10%, is comprised of Raba (Hungary) and Skoda
(Czech Republic) trucks.
Duties and Taxes
9.           Social sector enterprises and private operators must equally pay a 25 % customs
duty, on the vehicle value, to import trucks or any other types of vehicle. However, if the
importers are registered as international carriers, they are exempted of rendering the customs
duty. For importing spare parts, the duty is 5 % for own use of a transport enterprise, and 25 %
when the parts will be traded. The trucking industry is levied a 10% tax on the transport service
they perform, equally for social and private enterprises. Additionally, they must pay a 30%
income tax like all Macedonian enterprises.
Role of Trucking in the Economy
10.         Trucking activity in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was severely
hampered over the last few years by the breakup of Yugoslavia, the blockade of Serbia, and the
border closing with Greece. This is reflected in Tables 2 and 3, which show the evolution of
the goods transported during the period 1988-1992. Total cargo transported decreased from 11
million tons to 4 million tons, and ton-kilometers from 2,450 million to 1,424 million. During
the same period, there was a shift of main products carried (para. 11), which is a consequence
of the situation of the industrial sector in the country. Additionally, there was a modification
in the geographic pattern of freight, from the traditional North-South direction connecting Greece
to the rest of former Yugoslavia, to the East-West linking with Albania and Bulgaria.



31                              Annex 2
Page 4 of 8
Table 2: Development of Road Freight Transport
1988      1989      1990       1991       1992
Kilometers Travelled, in '000         187,164   192,584   157,048    137,690    11,5965
Goods Carried, in '000 tons            10,796    10,831     8,036      6,141     4,015
Ton-Kilometers, in '000,000             2,450     2,655     2,189      1,708      1,425
Source for Table 2: Statistical Yearbook of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia - 1993
Table 3: Distribution of Road Freight Transport
1988       1989       1990       1991      1992
GOODS CARRIED, in '000 tons          10,796     10,831      8,036      6,141     4,015
Domestic Transport                  9,981      10065      7,327      5,482     2,222
Export                               207        229        223        280        256
Import                               527        450        356        307        441
Transit and Transport Abroad           81        87         130        72       1,096
TON-KILOMETERS, in '000,000          2,450      2,655      2,189      1,708      1,425
Domestic Transport                  2,039      2197       1,774      1,343       502
Export                               193        233         176        192       178
Import                               113         116       123         105       193
Transit and Transport                 105        109        116        68        552
Source: Statistical Yearbook of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia - 1993
11.           Lime, cement and other mineral products transported decreased by 70%  during
1988-1992, even though they still accounted for a 24.4% of total goods carried. Metals and
metal products were the second group of products carried with 22.2% in 1988, but its volume
decrease to 6.7% in 1992. Petroleum and petroleum products was the third group of products
transported in 1988 accounting for 8.3%, becoming the second in 1992 with 12.9%. However,
considering ton-kilometers, petroleum and petroleum products were the first good in 1992 with
17.6%. This also shows the higher distance traveled for these commodities. Tables 4 and 5
show the evolution of freight volumes for the different types of goods.



32                                Annex 2
Page 5 of 8
Table 4: Road Transport of Goods (in '000 tons)
1988         1989         1990         1991          1992
Lime, Cement and Other (1)        3,472         3,411        2,716        2,062           979
i Minhra1 Prod,u,cts   ;00       ,  (%)f;-; 0y.32,2%  31 .6%  338         33.6:        24.4%
Petroleum and           (T)         895          903           681          453           518
Petroleum Products     (%)          8.3%         8.3          8.5%          7.4%       129%
Fresh Fruits           (T)          609          577           446          462           299
and Vegetables          (%)        5.6%          5.3%         5.6%         7.5%         7.4%
Metals and             (T)        2,397         2,350        1,326          903           274
: Metaj Products        (%)        22.2%        21.7%         16.5%        14.7%         6.7%
Ores and Concentrates    (T)        514           121          289          262           264
:oC Noz -FenMous Metats   (%)       4.8%         1.1%         3.6%          4.3%        6.6%
Other Food Products,    (T)         380          480           390          296           159
Beverages and Tobacco  (%)          3.5%         4.4%         4.9%         4.8%         4,0%
Wood and               (T)          329          288           281          190           179
:- Cork                (%)         3.0%          2.7%         3.5%         3.1%         4.5%
Miscellaneous Goods    (T)          890         1,107          995          878           899
4and $pecial Cargos     (%)         8.2%         10.2%        12.4%        14.3%        22.4%-:W
Other                  (T)         1,310        1,594          912          635           444
12.2%        14.7%        11.2%         10.3%       11.1% V
T O T A L                         10,796       10,831        8,036        6,141         4,015
100.0%       100.0%       100.0%       100.0%       100.0%I-
Source for Table 4: Statistical Yearbook of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia - 1993



Annex 2
Page 6 of 8
Table 5: Road Transport of Goods
l __________________________     (Ton-  Kilometers  in  '000,000)                            l
1988       1989        1990          1991         1992
Lime, Cement and Other (t)        407         394          259           218           192
Mineral Products     (%)         16.6%      14.8%        11.8%         12.8%  :'        5p"
Petroleum and        (t)           337        360          326           265           250
Petroleum Products    (%)        13.8%       13.6%       -14.9%        15.5%
Fresh Fruits         (t)          230         225          201           142            95
and Vegetables        (%)         9.4%       8.5%       :9.2%           8.3%6 ' ' '     %
Metals and           (t)          314         267          231           221           115
Metal Products       (%)         12.8%       10.1%       10.6%         12.9%          8.1%
Ores and Concentrates   (t)        93          39           65           66             68
of Non-Ferrous Metals  (%)        3.8%        1.5%        3.0%          3.9%          4.8%
Other Food Products,   (t)         194        205          138           131            99
Beverages and Tobacco  (%)        7.9%        7.7%        6.3%          7.7%   -      7.0
Wood and              (t)          106        107          112            71            69
Cork                 (%)          4.3%       4.0%         5.1 %         4.2%          4.8%
Miscellaneous Goods   (t)         320         389          465           287           275
and Special Cargos   (%)         13.1 %      14.7%       21.2%         16.8%         19.3S
Other                (t)          449         669          392           307           261
18.3%      25.1%        17.9%         17.9  .       8.2%
T 0 T A L                        2,450      2,655        2,189         1,708          1,424
100.0%     100.0%       100.0%        100.0%         100%



34                          Annex 2
Page 7 of 8
12.         Average lengths of haul increased from 227 to 355 kilometers during the period
1988-1992. Table 6 shows the evolution of the average lengths of haul per type of good.
Table 6: Average Lengths of Haul by Type of Good
(Ton-Kilometers in '000,000)
1988      1989      1990       1991      1992
Lime, Cement and Other                                               196
Mineral Products            117       116        95         106
Petroleum and                                                        483
Petroleum Products          377       399       479         585
Fresh Fruits and            378       390       451         307      318
Vegetables
Metals and Metal            131       114        174       245       420
Products
Ores and Concentrates                                                258
of Non-Ferrous Metals       181       322       225        252
Other Food Products,                                                 623
Beverages and Tobacco       511       427       354        443
Wood and Cork               322       372       399        374       385
Miscellaneous Goods                                                  306
and Special Cargos          360       351       467         327
Other                       343       420       430        483      588
T O T A L                  2,720     2,911     3,074      3,122    3,577
Current Situation and Main Issues
13.         Estimates for 1994 indicate that road haulage continued to decline to nearly half
of the freight volumes of 1992, about 2 million tons, of which 90% is international transport and
the remaining 10% is domestic transport. Petroleum is the main good carried; mainly from the
port of Burgas in Bulgaria. Fresh fruits and vegetables are not being carried by Macedonian
truckers due to the spoilage produced by extensive waits at the borders and, to the lack of
refrigerated trucks.  There is an excess demand for transporting wine and vegetable oil
internationally. However, since the interruption of oil imports from the railway served port of
Salonike, all the cistern tanks are being used for carrying petroleum.



35                         Annex 2
Page 8 of 8
14.         Truckers and shippers agree about the major concerns of the road freight activity
in the country. They can be summarized as follows:
(a)   Long delays at the border crossings with Bulgaria (Deve Bair) and Albania
(Cafasan). This situation has reduced the truck turn-around time by 60%. For
example, a truck could make the trip Skopje-Burgas-Skopje (1,400 Kin) 10 times
per month. With the present conditions, truckers make 4-5 trips per month.
(b)   Bulgarian trucks charge lower fees than Macedonian trucks for certain types of
freight, due to lower fuel prices in Bulgaria (53% lower than in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia), and the utilization of an older trucking fleet
(20 years average age) which belonged to the Bulgarian army
(c)   Discontinuing of the railway service has diminished the demand for "combined"
and container transport, feeding the main rail lines especially for domestic
distribution purposes.
(d)   Renewal of the trucking fleet is critical if Macedonian truckers want to compete
internationally. Investments would be needed to acquire new equipment such as
containers, refrigerated containers, and to refurbish freight transport terminals.



36                              Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ROADS ORGANIZATION
PAVEMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Outline Terms of Reference for Pavement Management System
BACKGROUND
1.    The former Yugoslavia Republic of Macedonia has been independent of the former
Yugoslavia since September 1991. As a member of the federation, the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia was included in various federally-run systems, including systems maintained or
being put into place by the Association of Road Organizations of Yugoslavia. The independent
Roads Organization of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (RO) now wishes to put in
place its own nation-wide pavement management system (PMS). The country is a landlocked
rectangular territory approximately 220 km by 150 km, bordered by Serbia, Greece, Albania and
Bulgaria. RO has responsibility for 2600 km of paved roads including 104 km of motorway, 811
km of primary roads, and 500 km of earth and gravel roads. These are administered from the
Headquarters in Skopje through three regional directorates. RO also works closely with the
university and two engineering design institutes. In considering the pool of staff available to
work with, the university and institutes may be included on a par with RO staff. Two large
contractors maintain small consulting capabilities.
THE CONCEPT
2.    As there is no previous experience of PMS in the country, and as the country is small,
RO wishes to develop a PMS with the following characteristics:
(i)   it shall be simple, with an emphasis on creating a tool for investment and
maintenance decision makers as soon as possible, but capable of adaptation to
greater sophistication later;
(ii)  it shall make maximum use of existing systems and software already on the world
market;
(iii)  it shall make maximum use of manpower and resources of the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia;
(iv)  it should require the ownership and maintenance of a minimum amount of
specialized equipment, and instead maximize the use of data gathering by
contracted services or rented equipment.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
3.    The Roads Organization is currently negotiating a loan from the World Bank and intends
to use part of the proceeds for purchase of the equipment and services necessary for the
introduction of a PMS. RO invites proposals from the shortlisted firms specializing in the
development and installation of pavement management systems. The consultant should
familiarize himself with the state of PMS development in adjacent but larger countries, who have
acquired or will be acquiring their own instrumentation, and which may be sources of
contracting out data collection, or equipment rental.
SCOPE OF WORK
4.    The selected firm will be expected to visit the country, review the road network, and in
consultation with RO, make recommendations for the introduction of an appropriate PMS, and,
after discussion and agreement on the final action plan, assist RO with its implementation. The
recommendations will include:
(i)   the broad outline of the system proposed, software to be adopted, adapted, or
written, for database, pavement performance, VOC module, determination of
maintenance strategy etc; and hardware.
(ii)   a Plan of Action and timetable for the development and installation of the system,
which shall include training of personnel, and installation of location referencing
system points.
(iii) a detailed list of equipment and software to be purchased, and eventually,
preparation of bidding documents for its purchase.
(iv)   a list of personnel, facilities and equipment to be provided by RO at no cost to
the consultant.
THE TASK
5.    In keeping with the Government's wish to make maximum use of its own talent and
manpower, the selected firm is expected to minimize the time that its own personnel are in the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and to manage the assignment through a series of visits
over a 2-3 year period, each of which would be triggered by completion of a specified task, such
as delivery of an item of equipment, or completion of installation of LRP's.
THE WORLD BANK LOAN.
6.    The World Bank loan is expected to be available in mid 1995; a budget of $1 million is
earmarked for equipment, technical assistance and contracted services, and the loan is expected
to close in June 1999.



38                          Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
PrJect Objectives
1.    The project objectives are:
(i)   to address the crisis created for transport in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia caused by actions on the Serbian and Greek borders, through the
facilitation of East-West transit and reducing transport costs through road
rehabilitation;
(ii)  to strengthen the road management capabilities of MTC, MUDCEE and RO,
particularly in the areas of planning and pavement management.
2.    The project would have three components:
(i)   the civil works component will improve the country's access to the ports of
Bulgaria and Albania through the rehabilitation and upgrading of about 60 kmn
of the East-West Corridor;
(ii)  the transit facilitation component will fund technical assistance and equipment
for the development and implementation of a modem customs system, and for
the monitoring of performance targets for transit times; and
(iii) the institutional strengthening component will fund technical assistance and
training for strengthening MTC, MUDCEE and RO in the areas of economic
evaluation of road investments and pavement management (PMS).
3.    The project will be implemented by the Road Organization, an independent agency
with its own earmarked funding sources, subject to loose oversight from MTC, and
MUDCEE, and by the Customs Agency. Before independence RO implemented the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's components of at five highway projects, and the
organization is an experienced borrower. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU). staffed at
least by an engineer and an accountant. will be constituted. There will also be a steering
committee with representation for RO, MTC, MUDCEE, and the Customs Agency
overseeing the whole project and responsible for coordination between agencies. Creation of
the PIU and appointment of the committee are conditions for loan effectiveness. RO will be



39                          Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
The Borrower, and the Secretary, who is appointed by, and responsible to Parliament, is
empowered to sign any contracts for commitment of loan funds.
4.    The PIP is given in a series of tables attached to this annex. Table 1 shows the tasks,
their inter-relation one with the other, and their timing. Tables 2,3 and 4 provide details of
the implementation of the transit facilitation component. The project cost
table and disbursement table are given in the SAR in para 3.10 and Annex 5; items eligible
for funding from the loan are shown in the disbursement method table in para 3.15.
5.    Auditors will be appointed in late 1995, in time to prepare and submit a report on
financial year 1995 by June 1996.
6.    Feasibility analyses. including the economic evaluation of road works in Tetovo-
Gostivar and Kichevo-Botun will be entered in the Project File.
7.    Monitoring will be the task of the PIU. The two civil works contracts are ongoing
and each has a contractual completion date, which serve as an indicator. Quality and works
progress will be monitored by RO's resident engineer. The PMS program development
begins with the establishment of an Action Plan with milestones. When these milestones
have been established, they will serve as monitoring indicators. They will be events rather
than dates, and will monitor equipment delivery and key points in system development.



40                                                       Annex 4
Table 1
Page  1 of
.       ....................................   ....                 . ............   .   - -  . ........... .1 .......
w    U~~~~U
oi    o "    e   _     ................. ..... ... j...................  ...   ..  . .. ...  .... .....................  ......... .. ...... .. ........... .  ........ .
0
0W 0 
U   0    m 0
oUU
z  E
>,~~~~~~.    -  -  -  - |                                  $        :tW     A  I                                   -               A    1 r-
v  l
~~~~~~ 0   Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 
z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~)   0    n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                0-
0    <    W                                                                                                                                   0~~~~~~~~i w     
(~~~~~)  C OJL                                                                                                        I    I     IU      



41                                       Annex 4
Table 1
_ _    _                                  I    _-                 r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iage~ z -ot 
r0                                                                                              0
.e   .   ....        ........I                 .......
0
.0                   2
t                          )     A   0
C44
Si              S       c 
EE                      4                        r
c               EnE-;       5F 
LcL  
C                                   C  =
X~~~~~~~~~~~~5  C
U, _5. _                                 li _ i
U, e    *t   81                         E     
Oi    -  r   "   i ON 54  sl | r  | ;s |        S | D  |



42                                Annex 4
Table 2
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
Training Program for Customs Service
STAFF
REQUIREMENT              TOTAL          ESTIMATED
TRAINING CATEGORY                     TRAINING           MAN/MONTHS    COSTS IN US $
A. GENERAL MANAGEMENT                     Assistants to the                  4        20.000,00
1. New organizational system          Director, heads of
2.  New customs procedure             the departments,
3.  Relations among other government   advisors to the
agencies.                         Director
B. LEGISLATION AND TARIFF                 Advisors to the                   10        50.000,00
SYSTEM, EU LEGISLATION                Director, Experts for
topics, Head of
departments
C. INVESTIGATION AND CONTROL              Heads of                           4        20.000,00
departments, senior
customs officers
D. COMPUTER PROFESSIONALS                 System engineers,                 10        50.000,00
FROM IC                               DB specialists,
1. Operating system                  programmers
2. Database Management System
3. Software for customs data
(ASYCUDA+ +)
E. CUSTOMS OFFICERS                       Chiefs of customs                 36        72.000,00
1.  New procedure, SAD document,      offices, senior
customs clearance, collecting of  customs inspectors
duty
64      212.000,00



43                                                        QAnex 4
Table 3
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
CUSTOMS DEPARTMENT - PROCUREMENT ITEMS ELIGIBLE FOR FINANCING
PHYSICAL         ESTIMATED COST IN US
ITEM                           UNIT          VOLUME                       S
A   EQUIPMENT OF CUSTOMS
HEADQUARTERS
I.   Central conputer w/ operating system                  pa               2                   140.000,00
2.   Developnent tools                                     copy             1                     2.500,00
3.   Peripherial units line printer (800 I/mi.)             pCs             I                    10.000,00
4.   Communication server                                   pcs             2                    14.000,00
5.   Terminal working station                               pcs             40                   80.000,00
B.    EOUIPMENT FOR CUSTOMS REGIONS
1.   Central computer with operating system                pcs              3                   200.000,00
2.   Communication server                                   pcs             3                    20.000,00
3.   Terminal working station                               pcs             40                   80.000,00*
C.    SOFTWARE FOR RELATIONAL
DATA BASE
I.   Data base management system                           copy             1                    20.000,00
2.   Software Development                                 contract           1                   341.500,00
3.   Technical Assistance                                 contract          1                   200.000,00
TOTAL                                                                                    1.107,500,00
* the price for the matrix printers is included in the price for the working stations.



44                                            Annex 4
Table 4
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
First       Second        Third       Fourth        Fifth        Sixth
Activity                    Quarter      Quarter      Quarter      Quarter      Quarter      Quarter
1. Project Management
Steering Committee                   x
Project Leader & Team                x
2. Customs Legislation
Review and redrafl the                     xxxxx        xxxxx        xxxxx        xxxxx        xxxxx        xxxxx
Customs Law
3. Short-Term Measures to Simplify Customs
Introduce the Single Administration
Document (SAD) on a manual basis            xxxxx
Start releases based on guarantees          xxxxx
Start selective physical inspections        xxxxx
4. Equipment and ASYCUDA Software
Room preparation                              xxx       xxxxx
Provision of communications                   xxx       xxxxx
Installation of equipment                                    x       xxxxx x
Installation of software                                                         xxxxxx
Training of staff                                                                   xxxx
Information to the Trade Community                                                    xx x
Pilot implemenation and evaluation                                                             xxxxx
Phased implementation of other                                                                              xxxxx
customs offices
m:Vnp\ma6\imp1emen.x1s



45                                 Annex 5
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PRQJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement*
Cumulative Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year         Quarter Ending            US$ million Equivalent
96                       September 30, 1995              10.0**
December 31, 1995               10.4
March 31, 1996                  10.8
June 30, 1996                   11.3
97                       September 30, 1996              12.6
December 31, 1996               13.9
March 31, 1997                  15.2
June 30, 1997                   16.5
98                       September 30, 1997               17.8
December 31, 1997               19.1
March 31, 1998                  20.4
June 30, 1998                   21.7
99                       September 30, 1998              23.0
December 31, 1998               23.4
March 31, 1999                  23.8
June 30, 1999                   24.0
Source: Mission Estimate December 1994.
The Loan Closing Date will be June 30, 1999.
Based on ECA-Yugoslavia Transportation Profile.
* Loan Effectiveness estimated in last quarter of 1995.
** Retroactive financing payment of $10.0 million.



46                                             Table  2.1
Page 1 of 2
INVESM 1NT PROGRAM AND FINANCING PLAN                                          I
THE ROAD ORGANIZATION
RUBLIC OF MACEDONIA_                              000 $
. _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Foreign  |Po"i'lb
ACTUAL               TOTAL            PROPOSAL             TOTAL  Program  |Bnk
1992     1993       1994               1995      1996      1997             % 000S    Participation
1. EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
A. Oufoino Investrnents:
By-pa K. Palanka                 4,4 km.       1.493    2.374      2.140    6.007     .        .
Berovo - Strumica              28.2 km         2.380    3.950      2.070    8.400    .                   .
Berovo - lepalo                 11,0 km        0.S10    0.73S     -         1.548    -
Stip - Stmica                  55.0 km        -         2.055      2.500    4.555    3.000      3.000    6.000    12.000
Total Onongo  Inveatzents:                     4.683    9.117      6.710   20.510    3.000      3.000    6.000    12.000
Physical Cootingencie 5%.                     .         .                             0.150     0.150    0.300     0.600
Price Continnencies 10%                       -                                      0.300     0.300     0.600     1.200
Total A:                                       4.683    9.117      6.710   20.510    3.450      3.450    6.900    13.S00
=
B. Hithway Conatnwtion
TabRnovci - Kumanovo              1.1 km                0 0.990             0.990                        . -
Hipodrom - Miladinovci          10.3 km        1.500    1.426      5.700    8.626    6.000     -                   6.000
Grdlco - Stobi                   5.0 kmn       0.218    1.617      1.300    3.135    2.000      4.000    *         6.000
Total Highway Conatction:                      1.71S    4.033      7.000   12.751    8.000      4.000              12.000
Physical Contingencike 5%:                    -         -         -         -         0.400     0.200              0.600
Price Contingtencies 10%                      -         -                   -         0.800     0.400              1.200
Total B:                                       1.718    4.033      7.000   12.751    9.200     4.600               I 1 3.S00
C. Other Proposed Inveatments.
Reconstnitions
Tetovo - Go.tivar               19.2 kn        0.360    2.427      9.000   11.787   12.000      -                  12.000      60%          14.400
Psce - Kriva Palanks            10.5 km       -         -          0.300    0.300    2.800      9.000    3.000    14.800
Obrid - Sv. Naum                 7,3 km       -         -          0.100    0.200    1.100      4.000              5.100
M. Kamnenica- Kalinanci          7,1 km       -         -          3.300    3.300    2.000     .         .         2.000
Rehabilitations:
Kicevo - Botn                  21,0 km         2.035    -          0.715    2.750    3.300     *         -         3.300       60%          4.900
Pavement Strengthening                        0.777    -          -         0.777
T.VeIks - m Line                               0.994    -         -         0.994                                  -
Di,novAn-DeveBauirM Line         5.8 km       -         0.153      1.120    1.273
Paveumnt Strengtbening
Main Road.                                     4.493    9.093      9.600   23.186    6.000      6.500    8.000    20.500
Rcgional Road.                                 2.995    6.062      6.400   15.457    4.000     4.300     4.700    13.000
Local Roads                                    0.913    0.970      I.200    2.983    1.100      1.100     1.100    3.300
Constraction on other Roads:
T. Ve2a - Babune-Prilep          74 km        -                    0.170    0.170    3.000     6.000    13.000    22.000
*. Rtej - Brmm Kozjak           19.2 km       -         -          0.610    0.610    I.000      4.W0     6.400    11.400
Border crow Deve a8ir                                                       -         1.000 -                       .000
Border cross Cafn                             -         -                             0.700    -                   0.700
Border croe Sv. Nakum                          0.872              -         0.872 
Border cror Stenje                             0.707    -                   0.707
Other roads                                   .         0.149     -         0.149                                   _
Totalother inve1m4: 24,146   18.854                               32.055   65.055   38.000    35.400    37.200   110.600
Physicl Coatingencies 5%:                                                             1 -  -.900  1.770  1.B60     5.530
Price Contingencies 10%:                      -         -                   -        3.S00     3.540     3.720    11.060
Total C:                                      14.146   18.854     32.055   65.055   43.700    40.710    42.780   127.190



4 7                                                    Table  2 .1
Page 2 of 2
INVRSTNMNT PROGRAM AND FINANCING PLAN                                          2
TTIF ROAD ORGANIZATION
RFPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA                           000 S
_Foreign    Possible
ACTUAL              TOTAL             PROPOSAL             TOTAL  Progr       Bank
1992     1993      1994    _           1995      1996      1997             % 000S    Participation
I. EXPENDITLURE PROGRAM
D. Maintenance
Regular                                       4.987    5.888       6.000   16.875    6.400     7.000     8.000    21.400
Wmnter                                        2.936    4.630       4.500   12.066    4.800     5.000     5.600    15.400
Tota Matenance:                               7.923    10.518     10.500   28.941    11.200    12.000    13.600    36.800
Physical Contingencies 5%:                         -              -                  0.560     0.600     0.680     1.840
PriceContingenciea 10%                        .         .         .         -         1.120     1.200    1.360     3.680
Total D:                                      7.923    10.518     10.500   28.941    12.880    13.800    15.640    42.320
E. Other:
1. StAdies and Design                         0.302    0.275       0.395    0.972    0.400     0.300     0.400     1.100
2. Land Acqusition                            0.368    0.666       0.400    1.434    0.450      0.450    0.500     1.400
3. Banks Expense                              0.115    0.159       0.225    0.499    0.250      0.250    0.300     0.800
4. Administration                              0.107    0.325      0.450    0.882    0.500      0.500    0.600     1.600
5. Equipmnent & Spebalizatiorks               -                             0.000    -         0.500     1.000     1.500      100%          1.500
Total Other:                                  0.892    1.425       1.470    3.787     1.600     2.000    2.800     6.400      100%          1.500
Physical Contingencies 5%:                    -              -         .             0.080     0.100     0.140     0.320
Price Contingencies 10%                       -                   -         -        0.160     0.200     0.280     0.640
Total E:                                      0.892    1.425       1.47(    3.787    1.840      2.300    3.220     7.360
F. Debt Servicin.
Foreiyn
- IBRD                                        0.380    0.083      -         0.463    3.830      3.025    2.158     9.013
- EIB                                                                       .        17.870     5.755    4.902    28.527
Local                                                                       __                 _       _ -_                       _._.
Total Debt Servicing:                         0.380    0.083      -         0.463   21.700      8.780    7.060    37.540
Total A - F:                                  29.742   44.030     57.735  131.507   83.500    65.180    66.660   215.340
Physical Contingencies 5%                     -         *         -                  3.090     2.820     2.980     8.890
Price Contingencies 10%                       .           .       .                  6.180     5.640     5.960    17.780
TOTAL PROGRAM COST:                          29.742   44.030      57.735   131.507   92.770    73.640    75.600   242.01C0
U. FINANCING PLAN:
1. Fuel Tax                                   17.565   28.165     38.000   83.730   52.200    54.500    56.000   162.700
2. Tolls                                      7.043    5.537       6.500   19.080    7.000      7.300    7.500    21.800
3. Tax on Foreign Vehicle                     2.830    1.065       0.800    4.695     1.000     1.100     1.200    3.300
4. Vehicle Registrtion Fees                    0.631    5.210      7.300   13.141    8.000      8.300    8.500    24.800
5. Republican Contributions                    1.573    4.053      5.135   10.761    4.570      1.940    1.400     7.910
6. Credits
- foreign contracted                                  *                   .        .         .         .
- foreign should be contracted                        -         -         .       20.000     0.500     1.000    21.500
-TcAl                                       -         -          .        .         .         .         .        .
TOTAL                                         29.642   44 030     57.7351T131.407T   92.770    73.640    75.6001  242.0101



48                                           Table 4.1
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation - Costs and Benefits (Denars)
Tetovo - Gostivar                            Kichevo - Botun
Year          Construction Costs          Benefits              Construction Costs     Benefits
1994             468,000,000                                           80,000,000
1995             543,675,000                                          252,010,000
1996                                         154,600,650                              70,789,000
1997                                         164,831,945                              77,205,736
1998                                         175,063,240                              81,969,215
1999                                         185,294,534                              91,096,414
2000                                          195,525,828                             101,374,805
2001                                         205,757,123                              111,671,185
2002                                         215,988,418                              121,9t7,574
2003                                         226,219,713                              132,263,964
2004                                         236,451,008                              142,560,354
2005                                         246,682,303                              152,856,744
2006                                         256,913,597
2007                                         267,144,892
2008                                         277,376,187
2009                                         287,607,482
2010                                         297,838,777
2011                                         308,070,072
2012                                         318,301,365
2013                                         328,532,930
2014                                         338,763,955
2015                                         346,295,250
IRR= 18%                                      IRR =23%
m:\mip\mac\tab4-1.xls









BOSNIA \ -AND\                                              _0\x z       0   L                                                                                                               AI r C .I    'IC'1
HERZEGDV NA                           \                             , .Novi PozcS _$ +) ( -P C ON EArT WEST -CsIDG
ON    4E IST  WDPlIO
,.s ? '                   X~~~~~~~~~FEDERAL R EPIU B LIC8    YU(  5LAVI-A                                                   .cFrn
tobilosO  m =   2                             : .                                          S      B  U  a A    Rt A                    _     ROACS TC' SE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ARO[5Tr B
T     B  U    G                                   R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EH~ABITA7T[D
\ / , / )\ i G VronieX }-  B. gobovdoI  .   9AJDP ROADS
_"                                                   OSo                                                          w       nl;  0  gongrod  _ 6ex , g _ @t \ r B<oc/t \ 4> yt- r mkor  SEC0'1DAR' ROADS
S   X  sMurino            ,                      t           s-  r} r--                      lu     vo                   ck               _   1A tROADS  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~Fooe~o    P EP
9 t t _ QDoLovicoc -_>> 8 >%< J 1 oLovee- z \ u AND TC'wNS W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AD T~4N
S~~~\ Trtogroajl > = ' -ik f > gv _Be-ovo/ +> NTci<NAT ONAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B~oo                                                                  AFQTS NA
-o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
Nikw                                                                                                                                                         RA LPDADOs_MA ED NiAL 
"N                                                                                                 SELE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TEI~~~--I   !~     C -.
TRANSIT  FACILITATION   PROJECT                                                    9'An,inda,o,I           -. C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AD TII
C-  20  00   ~0. 00  CDJ 0_- 80tO~CETERS                                /  TeLovo o                        \        >\hT-AA
\      Vle p\                                                                                                                                                                   NTERNAT ONAL 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                         To-                                                                                                   ORT
s   S _>^Loair_  * puLe                   \ _-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s;FORMER  YUGCL' REPBI                                                                                       S
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C __ AC/  *IA~;  c.
O  10   20  3w  40 50  lLE5 ' / s\ ) [  ~ 2 o~ >X;RFr  
A  af-r                                                        0                                 '\'i  at                                      s i cM  



