Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No:19408
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
Loan No. 3868-MK
June 24, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Country Department VI
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June, 1999)
Currency Unit        Denar (DN)
IDenar         US$0.01751
US$1          (56.94 DN)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(per US$1)
Jan 1995       Jan 1996          Jan 1997          Jan 1998         Jan 1999
40.48           38.09            41.41             55.98            52.78
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EU   -  European Union
EIB  -  European Investment Bank
PHARE  -  European Union Technical Assistance Program for the Central
and Eastern European Countries
FNRR   -  Fund for National and Regional Roads
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
MIS  -  Management Information System
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
PMS  -  Pavement Management System
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
UNCTAD   -  United Nations Commission for Trade and Development
FYR MACEDONIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader: Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Program Team Leader: Mirtha Pokorny, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3868-MK)
Contents
Preface  ........            ..........................................................................i
Evaluation  Summary ..................................................................................i
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ..................................................................................1
A.  Project Origin and Objectives .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                                                              .2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                                                            .4
D. Project Sustainability                                                                .5
E. Bank Performance                                                                    .5
F. Borrower's Performance                                                                  .5
G. Assessment of Outcome                                                                   .6
H. Future Operations                                                                   .6
I. Key Lessons Learned                                                                   .7
Part II. Statistical Tables .................................................................................8
TABLE  1: SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ..................................................................................                         8
TABLE 2: RELATED  BANK LOANS/CREDITS .................................................................................  10
TABLE 3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE ............................                            ..................................................... 1 1
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .................. 1 1
TABLE 5: KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ....................                                      ................................... 12
TABLE 6:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .................................                              ................................. 12
TABLE 7:  STUDIES INCLUDED  IN PROJECT .................................................................................     12
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ................................................................... 13
TABLE 8B:  PROJECT FINANCING ...............................                            .................................................. 13
TABLE 9:  ECONOMIC  COSTS AND BENEFITS ................................................................................. 14
TABLE  10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .................................................................................  14
TABLE  1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH  OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............                                                ........................... 15
TABLE  12:  BANK RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS ..............................................................................  15
TABLE  13: BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS .................................................................................     15
Appendices:
A. Contribution to the ICR from the Fund for National and Regional Roads
B. Contribution to the ICR from the Customs Administration
C. Map IBRD No. 30207
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT (Loan 3868-MK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transit Facilitation Project in the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, for which a loan (3836-MK) in the amount of US$24.0 million
equivalent was approved on April 18, 1995 and made effective on June 29, 1995.
The loan will be closed on June 30, 1999, the original closing date. The last disbursement is
expected to take place prior to September 30, 1999. A balance of US$ 0.62 million equivalent will be
cancelled at the time of loan closing.
The ICR was prepared by Mirtha Pokorny and Joe Kulenovic of the Europe and Central Asia
Region and reviewed by Eva Molnar and Ajay Chhibber. The Borrower and the Customs Administration
provided comments that are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission, September 21-28,
1998. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by
providing the ex-post economic evaluation of the project's road component as well as detailed
information on the state of implementation of the customs modernization component.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT (Loan 3868-MK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Transit Facilitation Project of US$24.0 million equivalent was the first World Bank loan for
the transport sector of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Project preparation started almost
immediately after the country became a member of the Bank, in early 1994, and was given a high priority
because of the disruption of transport flows caused by the UN-mandated sanctions against the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and the closure of the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia's border with Greece. The latter was depriving the country of access to the Greek port of
Thessaloniki, its closest and most economical outlet to the sea. Being a landlocked country, international
trade for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia requires access to ports in neighboring countries.
The closure of the natural North-South links exacerbated the need to improve the East-West connections
to the port of Durres in Albania, and Burgas in Bulgaria. Road sections upgraded under the project are
part of the East-West corridor (see map IBRD 30207). Works were started under a 1990 Bank loan that
was cancelled because of the break-up of the former Yugoslavia. Because of these unique circumstances,
the Bank approved retroactive financing amounting to 42% of the loan.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives of the project were to: (i) address the crisis in the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia caused by the closure of the Serbian and Greek borders through the facilitation of East-
West transit, so as to reduce transport costs; and (ii) strengthen the road management capabilities of the
Road Organization (later renamed the Fund for National and Regional Roads (FNRR), the name used
throughout this report), the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and the Ministry of Urban
Development, Civil Engineering and the Environment, particularly in the areas of planning and
pavement management.
3.    The project objectives were realistic in terms of the Borrower's capabilities and the strategy
underlying the project design was supportive of the country's development efforts in view of the
importance of improving East-West connections, which were hampered in the past by the low levels of
trade with Bulgaria and the isolationist policies of Albania.
4.    The project objectives were met. Under (i) above, about 60 km of roads were upgraded and
customs operations were improved, thereby assisting in reducing transport costs and facilitating the
movement of goods and peoples through international borders. The ex-post economic rates of return of
the civil works (18.3% for the Tetovo-Gostivar road and 26.2% for the Kicevo-Botun road) are very
much in line with the rates of return estimated at appraisal (18.0% and 23.0% respectively). This is due
to a great extent because the costs of the works were substantially firmed-up at the time of appraisal.
Also for (i), the Bank-financed technical assistance provided by the International Monetary Fund (DlvIF)



- ii -
allowed for the successful implementation of modern customs information networks, and the
establishment of procedures that reduced delays in inland clearances. Perhaps more telling of the success
of this project component is that customs duty collections increased by 27% during the period 1997-1998.
The objective under (ii) was also achieved. The design and implementation of a Pavement Management
System (PMS) that is expected to be fully operational by the year 2000, will allow the FNRR to make
decisions on the allocation of investments in the network on the basis of sound economic criteria. The
project also took the first steps in exposing the professionals of the FNRR, the Ministries of Transport
and Communications and of Urban Development, Civil Engineering and the Environment, the local
consulting firms and the academia to modem evaluation techniques. The follow-up Transport Sector
Project approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on February 9, 1999, targets efforts to a core group of
professionals in FNRR to develop an in-house capability to set standards and evaluate contracted studies.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    General: Overall implementation of the project proceeded in a highly satisfactory manner, ahead
of schedule, and with a relative absence of substantial problems in achieving the set objectives, despite
the difficult economic conditions prevalent in the country during this period. FNRR, which was
responsible for the implementation of the project's costliest component, the civil works, is an experienced
borrower, having taken part in the implementation of several Bank investment operations prior to the
breakup of the former Yugoslavia. The Customs Administration, responsible for the implementation of
the customs component, was able to quickly attain a familiarity with and working knowledge of Bank
operations, procurement practices, and procedural requirements. About 96% of the US$24.0 million
Loan had been disbursed. Of the remaining funds to be disbursed, about US$0.34 million are for the
procurement of a truck mounted bridge inspection equipment, while another US$0.25 million remained to
be disbursed for the procurement of computer equipment for the Customs Administration. Contracts for
the purchase of these goods have been signed and delivery is expected prior to June 30, 1999.
6.    Civil Works: The civil works for rehabilitating and upgrading both road sections (Tetovo-
Gostivar and Kichevo-Botun) of the East-West transport corridor were completed about a year ahead of
schedule and within the estimated costs. No particular issues and or problems are associated with this
project component. The highly satisfactory pace of implementation and quality of the works can be
attributed to the level of experience that the FNRR and the local construction industry have in these type
of works.
7.    Transit Facilitation: The technical assistance for the customs modernization component was
successfully carried out under a trilateral agreement between the Customs Administration, the IMF and
the Bank. Under the agreement, the IMF's Fiscal Department designed the assistance, identified an
international expert for its implementation, and periodically supervised his work. The Bank also financed
the establishment of a computerized system linking all the border crossings and other custom offices in
the country with the central office in Skopje, while the IMF consultant supervised the general process of
restructuring the Customs Administration. This technical assistance also provided support in the
preparation of a new Customs Law which was approved by Parliament in 1998. With a new Customs
Law in force, and its' new computirized systems in place, the Customs Administration is in a position to
function efficiently as a modern entity. 'The proposed Trade and Transport Facilitation Project for
Southern Europe will, under a regional approach, continue to support the institutional development of the
Customs Administration through the preparation of the regulation of the new Law and the implementation
of a new organizational structure which places customs under the Ministry of Finance.



- iii -
8.    Institutional Strengthening: The Project was successful in achieving its institutional objectives.
With the assistance of international consultants, FNRR established a pilot PMS, initially entering into it
about 500 km of national and regional roads; by the end of 1998 the system was expanded to about 2000
km of roads, and by the year 2000 the system will cover the country's entire network of roads for which
FNRR is responsible (3422 km). The system provides FNRR with the necessary decision tools to allocate
resources on the network on the basis of technical and economic considerations. Training under the
project on the economic evaluation of road investments provided the staff of FNRR, the consulting
industry, the staff of relevant ministries and the academia information on different topics such as traffic
forecasts, calculation of vehicle operating costs, cost-benefit analysis, and the incorporation of
environmental concerns in economic evaluations.
9.    Project conditionality and legal covenants were adhered to satisfactorily. Audit reports were
submitted on time and in good order, and project administration was outstanding. Bank staff also
performed well and the relations with the executing agencies were excellent.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   The project achieved all of its stated objectives, most of them ahead of schedule. There were no
significant problems related to project implementation.
11.   There are two follow-up operations to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Transit
Facilitation Project. The first is the Transport Sector Project, (Euro 27.0 million) which was approved by
the Bank's Board of Directors on February 9, 1999. The objectives of the project are: (i) bringing about
a reduction in transport costs by improving the country's East-West road connections; (ii) strengthening
road management capabilities in the area of planning, including the internalization of environmental
considerations in investment decisions; and (iii) reducing the fiscal burden imposed by the railways, by
supporting a restructuring process to commercialize operations. The civil works component of the new
project will upgrade a section of the East-West road adjacent to the Tetovo-Gostivar section upgraded
under the Transit Facilitation Project and will build on its institutional development achievements. The
ne,w project will provide funds for the design and implementation of a pilot project to test low cost
maintenance technologies, a recommendation stemming from the technical assistance to develop the
PMS, and will provide intensive training to two professionals in FNRR to ensure in-house capability to
set standards and review contracted economic evaluations of road investments.
12.   The second operation forms part of a regional program of trade and transport facilitation in
South-East Europe that would include Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania and
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The project objectives are: (i) strengthening customs
institutional capacity, supporting customs users by providing training and advisory services, establishing
an European Union (EU) compatible Management Information System (MIS) to provide high level
internal and external services, and improving main border crossings infrastructure; (ii) strengthening
onsite inspections to prevent smuggling; and (iii) harmonizing legal/regulatory frameworks, procedures,
and documentation related to trade and border crossing with EU/international practices and establishing a
coordinating mechanism for regional partnerships.
13.   The main lessons to be learned from this project can be summarized as follows: (i) project design
and level of complexity should be commensurate with its stated objectives, thereby minimizing the
potential for implementation-related problems; (ii) the main implementing agency's executing capability
and prior experience with Bank-financed projects is often a primary factor in the timely completion of
individual project components; (iii) strong Borrower commitment and a sense of ownership of the projzct



- iv -
are essential; and (iv) the Bank should demonstrate flexibility (such as with respect to its policy on the
acceptable percentage of retroactive financing) and a willingness to take into account a project's
particular circumstances, thereby improving the probability that a project will be implemented in an
expeditious and relatively problem-free manner.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3868-MK)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Project Origin and Objectives
1.    Project Origin. The Transit Facilitation Project of US$24.0 million equivalent was the first
World Bank loan for the transport sector of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Project
preparation started almost immediately after the country became a member of the Bank, in early 1994,
and was given a high priority because of the disruption of transport flows caused by the UN-mandated
sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) and the closure of the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's border with Greece. The latter, was depriving the country of
access to the Greek port of Thessaloniki, its closest and most economical outlet to the sea. Being a
landlocked country, international trade for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia requires access to
ports in neighboring countries. The closure of the natural North-South links exacerbated the need to
improve the East-West connections to the port of Durres in Albania, and Burgas in Bulgaria.
2.    The economic importance of upgrading the East-West links had been recognized before the
interruption of the North-South traffic, since the investments had economic merits even under normal
traffic conditions. In fact, initial preparation and appraisal of four road sections along the East-West
transport corridor had been undertaken as part of the Bank's last transport project in the former
Yugoslavia, the Third Highway Sector Project, which was approved by the Bank's Board on June 20,
1990. However, due to the break-up of the Yugoslav federation, that loan was cancelled in 1991, prior to
becoming effective. Bids for the road works in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia had already
been invited prior to loan cancellation and, because of the high level of deterioration of two of those road
sections (Tetovo -Gostivar and Kichevo- Botun), the FNRR went ahead with the contracting of the works.
3.    Once the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia rejoined the Bank as an independent state, it
was decided to resume Bank assistance in financing those, by then, urgent road works. The economic and
technical justifications provided as part of preparation of the Third Yugoslav Highway Sector Project
were updated and the competitive selection process for awarding the civil works contracts in line with
Bank procurement guidelines was confirmed. In view of the very unusual circumstances under which the
Bank's financing was interrupted for more than three years and subsequently reinstated, the Bank agreed
to retroactively finance 48% of the civil works in the project (42 % of the loan amount).
4.    While the institutional framework for the road subsector existing at the time of project appraisal
was assessed as generally satisfactory, there was clearly scope for improvement. The FNRR had an
excellent record of project execution, and its institutional weaknesses, mostly the result of the change
from a "provincial " to a "national" organization, started to be addressed under the project. FNRR
prepared strategic five-year plans and annual road development programs and submitted them to
Parliament for approval. However, investment programs approved by the Parliament included projects
that had not been subjected to proper feasibility studies, which at times led to projects being selected
based on considerations other than economic viability and efficiency. And even when feasibility studies



were carried out, the approach adopted often failed to yield sound results'. Thus, it was decided that the
project would support the design and implementation of a Pavement Management System (PMS) and
training on the evaluation of road investments, including the incorporation of environmental concerns in
the decision process.
5.     With the project focusing on minimizing the disruption of trade in the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, border crossings were identified as a major bottleneck in the link between Albania and
Bulgaria with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Efforts to improve regional trade were
taking place in an active framework of consultation and coordination under the auspices of the G-24
Group and the EU. Bilateral financing was being provided for the upgrading of border facilities. Also,
US Customs helped in the identification of a program of investments and technical assistance to
modernize the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia customs operations. These efforts served as the
basis for the customs modernization component of the project.
6.     Project objectives. The objectives of the project were to assist the Government to: (i) address
the crisis created for transport in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia caused by the closure of
the Serbian and Greek borders through the facilitation of East-West transit so as to reduce transport costs;
and (ii) strengthen the road management capabilities of the Road Organization (later renamed the Fund
for National and Regional Roads, FNRR), the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and the
Ministry of Urban Development, Civil Engineering, and the Envirounment, particularly in the areas of
planning and pavement management.
7.     The project had three components: (i) a civil works component to improve the country's access to
the ports of Bulgaria and Albania through the rehabilitation and upgrading of about 60km of road along
the East-West Corridor; (ii) a transit facilitation component to fund technical assistance and equipment
for the development and implementation of a modern customs system and the improvement of transit
times; and (iii) an institutional strengthening component funding technical assistance and training to
strengthen the FNRR, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and the Ministry of Urban
Development, Civil Engineering, and the Environment in the area of economic evaluation of different
road investments.
B.     Achievement of Project Objectives
8.     The objective of improving transport along the country's East-West corridor through the
upgrading about 60 km of roads was achieved substantially ahead of schedule and within the planned
budget2. Civil works on the Kichevo-Botun road section, entailing the complete rehabilitation of about
11 km and the overlaying and strengthening with asphaltic concrete of about 20 km of pavement, were
completed about a year and a half ahead of schedule, in October 1995, compared to the originally planned
These studies are carried out based on outdated criteria. Since 1974 feasibility studies for major road
investments in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia were contracted out by FNRR to local firms, in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Preparing Highway Feasibility Studies", which had been developed with World
Bank assistance.  Individual feasibility studies have since 1974 incorporated various improvements to the
Guidelines, though they have not been applied in a systematic way. In addition, the Guidelines were intended
primarily for the evaluation of major new construction projects, whereas many investment decisions involve
comparison of different levels of improvement to existing roads
2      The total cost overrun amounted to about 5% of the original estimated cost of the civil works component,
and is primarily attributable to the appreciation of the local currency, the Denar, relative to the US Dollar.



- 3 -
completion date of June 1997. The final cost of these road works was US$8.6 million, compared to the
original estimate of US$8.5 million. Civil works on the 19 km-longTetovo-Gostivar road section, which
included the reconstruction of the existing two-lane carriage way and the construction of two additional
lanes, were completed in September 1996, compared with the originally anticipated completion date of
June 1997. The final cost of these road works was US$27.8 million, 5% above the originally estimated
amount of US$26.8 million. Estimated ex-post economic rate of returns of 18.3% for the investments in
Tetovo-Gostivar and 26.2% for the investments in Kicevo-Botun confirm that the planned reduction in
transport costs are being realized.
9.    The technical assistance for the customs modernization component was carried out under a tri-
lateral agreement between the Customs Administration, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the
Bank.  Under the agreement, the IMF's Fiscal Department designed the assistance, identified an
international expert for its implementation, and periodically supervised his work. The Bank also financed
the establishment of a computerized system linking all of the border crossings and other customs offices
in the country with the central office in Skopje, while the IMF consultant supervised the general process
of restructuring the Customs Administration and its transformation into a modern customs entity modeled
after similar organizations in countries with developed market economies. More specifically, this project
component consisted of the following activities: (i) implementation of the ASYCUDA computer system;
(ii) reinforcement of the post-release audit and investigative abilities; (iii) introduction of valuation
checks and the necessary administrative and information technology structure to support them; (iv)
reorganization of departmental headquarters; and (v) modernizing and streamlining customs legislation.
In addition, the Bank-financed IMF consultant participated actively in the coordination of the different
donors working with customs, and helped in the drafting of a new Customs Law which eventually
brought customs under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, introduced risk-based selective
controls and foresees the introduction of a fairly advanced enforcement system.
10.   With the new Customs Law in force and its new computerized systems in place, the Customs
Administration is in a position to function efficiently as a modern entity of this type. As of late 1998, all
Customs Administration offices (with about 350 workstations), the Airport Authority, about 250 custom
brokers (or about 90% of those registered in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia), the Statistical
Institute, the Central Bank, the country's two major Post Offices, and international express carriers are all
connected by a unified computerized system for both imports and exports. There are 16 dial-up lines
available to brokers 24 hours a day. A total of about 350 Customs Administration staff have been trained
in the use of this technology, as well as in the new, simplified processing procedures developed under the
project. The reduction in processing time has been truly remarkable: it used to take 2-3 days from the
time goods were delivered to a terminal until they would appear in customs records; now this process is
instantaneous. At border crossings, the processing time for trucks with TIR Carnets is now 5-7 minutes,
while the release of goods from Customs is immediate following receipt of payment of customs duties.
Now, the primary remaining constraints at border crossings appear to be the lack of physical facilities,
particularly on the other side of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Perhaps most telling of this
component's success is the fact that, despite a reduction in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's
overall volume of foreign trade and the introduction of free trade agreements between the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and its main trading partners, customs duty collections actually
increased by 27% during the 1997-1998 period. In most cases, inland customs clearance delays were
reduced from three to four days to under one day.
11.   The project was successful in achieving the objectives related to the road subsector's institutional
capacity. The technical assistance for the design and implementation of the PMS and for training on
economic evaluation of road investments was carried out by a UK firm at a total cost of US$0.38 million.



- 4 -
With the assistance of the consultants, FNRR established a pilot PMS on about 500 km of national and
regional roads. The consultants trained the local engineers in carrying out through visual inspection data
gathering on road conditions on the pilot network, familiarize the local professionals with the use of the
system, and calibrated the system to local conditions. The FNRR continued expanding the system to the
rest of the network after the departure of the consultants. By the end of 1998 the system was covering
about 2000 km of roads, and by the year 2000 it is expected to cover the entire 3422 km of road network
for which FNRR is responsible.
12.   The same UK consultants responsible for assisting FNRR in the implementation of the PMS
carried out the training for the economic evaluation of road investments. Several seminars on key issues
such as traffic forecasting and user costs were provided to the staff of FNRR, the Ministries of Transport
and Communications and of Urban Development, Civil Engineering and the Environment, local
consulting firms, and the academia. The courses were short and fairly condensed (two weeks sessions)
and seldom people could attend them full time, without being distracted by their daily duties. Thus, the
training did expose those involved in the evaluation of road projects to modem techniques but further
efforts are necessary to develop in-house capability to set the standards and evaluate the quality of
contracted studies, a task being addressed under the follow-on Transport Sector Project.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   Implementation of the main project components took place in a highly satisfactory manner and at
a much faster pace than estimated at the original implementation schedule. By 1997, with only 50% of
the implementation period elapsed, loan disbursements had reached 95%. The fast rate of disbursements
dalring the first half of project implementation was due to the fact that the civil works component, which
accounted for 95% of project costs, were executed more rapidly than envisaged at appraisal.
Disbursements in the second half of the project implementation period were related to technical
assistance and procurement of equipment, components that were implemented at a somewhat slower pace
than originally expected.  This was in part because of the reorganization of the original Road
Organization ( the structure inherited from the former Yugoslavia) to the FNRR. The overall highly
satisfactory performance in project execution was due to:
(a)  Degree of preparation and ownership. The fact that the main project component, civil
works on the East-West road corridor, were already contracted, being executed and eligible
for US$10 million of retroactive financing, was certainly an important factor in the rapid
pace of implementationldisbursements. Also, the project had a very strong ownership
because of (i) the obvious need to upgrade the road links; (ii) the important amount of
retroactive financing associated to the project contributed to alleviate the country's
financing gap at a time of severe financial constraints; and (iii) the project contributed to
keep employment in the local construction industry, when other non-competitive industries
were shedding redundant staff at a rate that was causing social concerns.
The customs modernization component also benefited from advanced preparation and strong
ownership. Bank participation in the project was at the request of the authorities of the
Customs Administration, whowwere receiving assistance from several multi-lateral and bi-
lateral donors, but required additional support to see these ad-hoc efforts take sufficient
shape to make an impact on the agency. One particular concern was the implementation of
ASYCUDA, for which UNCTAD was providing free of charge the software, and funds
were needed for its implementation. The involvement of experts from the IMF's Fiscal
Department at the outset of project preparation also gave this component an early start.



- 5 -
(b)   Experienced Borrower. The fact that the FNRR had taken part in the preparation and
implementation of several Bank-financed road projects before the break-up of the forner
Yugoslavia meant that there was a strong institutional capacity for project implementation in
general, and a good knowledge of Bank procedures. With the experienced staff in the
FNRR acting as project coordinators for both the roads and the customs agencies,
procurement and contracting took place rather smoothly in both organizations.
D.    Project Sustainability
14.   In general, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has a good record of maintaining its road
network, which is the main condition for the sustainability of the civil works component of the project.
The long-term sustainability of the Bank-financed physical infrastructure is further ensured through the
project's institutional development component. The development of a PMS has enabled FNRR's staff to
acquire the capability to plan, budget, and monitor road expenditures over the entire road network for
which it is responsible, as well as to attain a familiarity with the economic evaluation of road projects. In
the coming years, this newly-acquired capability will be of key importance in ensuring that the physical
assets are maintained and upgraded in an efficient and economically justified manner.
15.   Measures undertaken as part of the transit facilitation component supported the harmonization of
customs with the EU, and therefore the furthering of the integration of the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia with the European Community. These measures, which will have an impact on long-term
sustainability include the following: enactment of a new Customs Law in June, 1998, becoming effective
in January, 1999; reorganization of the Customs Administration, particularly its departmental
headquarters; adoption of the ASYCUDA computer system for customs, adoption of the Single
Administrative Document for imports and for exports; and the implementation of miscellaneous other
measures such as reinforcement of post release audit and investigative abilities, and the introduction of
valuation checks.
E.    Bank Performance
16.   The Bank's performance in the preparation, appraisal, and implementation of this project was
satisfactory. The Bank showed a high degree of flexibility in making an exception to the usual limit of
10% of the loan amount for retroactive financing. The fact that the Bank allowed retroactive financing to
reach about 42% of the loan amount, in view of the project's very particular circumstances, enabled the
early commencement of the implementation of the civil works component, as well as their subsequent
early completion.
17.   In general, the Bank showed a keen responsiveness to the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia's circumstances, instead of applying a one-size-fits-all approach. Implementation issues, of
which there were admittedly very few, were addressed in a direct and straightforward manner, through
open and constructive dialog between the Bank and the Borrower. Ease of implementation was also a
function of the basic project design, which was results-oriented and "implementable". Supervision
missions oversaw project implementation regularly, about once or twice each year, while the process of
communication with the Borrower was ongoing throughout the year.



-6 -
F.    Borrower Performance
18.   As mentioned above, FNRR had substantial experience with the implementation of Bank-
financed road projects, while the Customs Administration was quick to learn about Bank operations. Both
imnplementing agencies, as well as other organizations in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
with responsibilities pertaining to this project, executed their duties in a very satisfactory manner, not
hesitating to seek the Bank's advice and guidance in areas where they lacked experience. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) appointed by FNRR had very capable professionals who benefited from Bank
training in procurement and disbursement activities. The institutional capacity developed as a result of
this project will facilitate the implementation of the recently approved follow-on project.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
19.   The overall project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory. The project objectives were fully
achieved, as stated in Section B. The road improvement component was carried out at approximately the
estimated cost and yielded estimated rate of returns in line with appraisal estimates. Institutional
improvements in the FNRR were considerable, and the Customs Administration of the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia is now being recognized as being at the forefront of the customs reform process
sweeping the region.
H.    Future Operations
20.   There are two follow-up operations to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Transit
Facilitation Project. The first is the Transport Sector Project, which was approved by the Bank's Board
of Directors on February 9, 1999. The objectives of the project are: (i) bringing about a reduction in
transport costs by improving the country's East-West road connections;  (ii) strengthening road
management capabilities in the area of planning, including the internalization of environmental
considerations in investment decisions; and (iii) reducing the fiscal burden imposed by the railways, by
supporting the restructuring process to commercialize operations. The civil works component of the new
project will upgrade a section of the East-West road adjacent to the Tetovo-Gostivar section upgraded
under the Transit Facilitation Project and will build on its institutional development achievements. The
new project will provide funds for the design and implementation of a pilot project to test low cost
maintenance technologies, a recommendation stemming from the technical assistance to develop the
PMS, and will provide intensive training to two professionals in FNRR to ensure in-house capability to
set standards and review contracted economic evaluations of road investments.
21.   The second operation forms part of a regional program of trade and transport facilitation in
South-East Europe that would include Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania and
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The project objectives are: (i) strengthening customs
institutional capacity, supporting customs users by providing training and advisory services, establishing
an EU compatible Management Information System (MIS) to provide high level intemal and extemal
services, and improving main border crossings infrastructure; (ii) strengthening onsite inspections to
prevent smuggling; and (iii) harmonizing legal/regulatory framework, procedures, and documentation
related to trade and border crossing to- EU/intemational practice and establishing a coordinating
mechanism for regional partnerships.



- 7 -
I.     Key Lessons Learned
22.    The following lessons can be drawn from this project:
(a)    In general, a level of complexity in the project's design that is appropriate to its stated
objectives results in fewer problems related to implementation. A realistic assessment of
what can and should be achieved under a single loan can make the difference between
overall implementation being highly satisfactory, or mired in various difficulties
stemming from over-design or otherwise inappropriate project design.
(b)    The capability of the implementing agency or agencies can be a primary determinant of
the timely completion of individual project components. In the case of the civil works,
the FNRR's prior experience with Bank-financed projects significantly contributed to
their early completion.
(c)    The specific activities included in a project really need to be perceived as priorities by
the Borrower. Strong Borrower commitment and a sense of ownership of the project are
essential.
(d)    Flexibility on the part of the Bank and a willingness to take into account a project's
particular circumstances, such as approving the unusually high percentage of retroactive
financing, can be a key factor in easing implementation and ensuring its timely
completion.



- 8 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial     Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                   n7 a
Sector Policies                  FE             n               [
Financial Objectives             F              [               n                n
Institutional Development       LX                               LI              LI
Physical Objectives                             LI 0                             LI
Poverty Reduction                L              L                0I
Gender Issues                    LI              a              II
Other Social Objectives          L              L               LI7
Environmental Objectives         LI             L               L               [
Public Sector Management                                        LI               LI
Private Sector Development       LI                             LI               LI
Other (specify)                  E]             L                                LI
(Continued)



-.9-
B. Project Sustainabiliy             Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                       (/)                      (1)
O~~~~
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(V/)                    (/)                       (/)
Identification                                              [                         El
Preparation Assistance                                                                 E l
Appraisal                                                    C                         C
Supervision                        jx                       EC
Highly
D. Borrower Performance             satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(il)                    6")                       6")
Preparation
Implementation                       S                       g
Covenant Compliance                                         El                         E l
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
C')             6")             6")               6")
S~E Ol    C



- 10-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose          Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. eleven highway projects  Construction and/or     Various             Completed
(Former Yugoslavia)    upgrading of road
sections throughout the
Former Yugoslavia
2. two highway sector   Institutional                Various            Completed
projects (Former      strengthening of Former
Yugoslavia)           Yugoslavia's highway
sector, and construction
and/or upgrading of road
sections
3. Third Highway Sector   Institutional               1990              Cancelled
Project (Former       strengthening of Former
Yugoslavia)           Yugoslavia's highway
sector, and construction
and/or upgrading of road
sections
Following operations
1. FYR Macedonia         Upgrading of additional      1998           Loan signed on May
Transport Sector      sections of the country's                    24, 1999
Project               main East-West road;
rationalizing railway
operations
2. South European Trade   Regional program to   Under preparation
and Transport         strengthen border
Facilitation Project  crossing and Customs
operations



- 11 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned      Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    12/27/93         12/27/93
Preparation                                   09/94            09/94
Appraisal                                     10/31/94         10/31/94
Negotiations                                  02/21/95         02/21/95
Board Presentation                            04/18/95         04/18/95
Signing                                       06/08/95         06/08/95
Effectiveness                                 06/29/95         06/29/95
Project Completion                            06/16/98         06/16/98
Loan Closing                                  06/30/99
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99
Appraisal estimate      11.3  16.5   21.7   24.0
Actual                  21.08  22.11   22.86  22.87
Actual as % of estimate    186.5  134.0  105.3  95.3
Date of final disbursement                   08/99
(estimated)



- 12 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                    Actual
I. Key implementation indicators in PAD
1. Upgrading of Tetovo-Gostivar   To be carried out in two years  Completed ahead of schedule
and Kicevo-Botun road
sections
2. TA and training             To be carried out over two  Completed ahead of schedule
years
3. Equipment and materials     To be carried out in one year   Completed on schedule
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                    Actual
Key operating indicators were not usedfor this project
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                              Purpose as defined at   Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
None



- 13 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate*         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                            Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs   costs
1. Roads and Bridge Works
- Tetovo - Gostivar          10.70   16.05    26.75       11.12    16.68    27.08
- Kichevo - Botun            03.39   05.08    08.47       03.44    05.12    08.06
- Supervision by RO          00.62   00.00    00.62       00.62    00.00    00.62
Subtotal                 14.70   21.13    35.84        15.18    21.80    37.02
2. Technical Assistance
- for Trade Facilitation     00.00   00.83    00.83       00.00    00.57    00.57
- for Road Management        00.00   00.72    00.72       00.00    00.38    00.38
Subtotal                 00.00   01.55    01.55       00.00    00.95    00.95
3. Equipment and Materials
- for Trade Facilitation     00.00   00.91    00.91       00.00    00.31    00.31
- for Road Management System   00.00   00.41    00.41     00.00    00.32    00.32
Subtotal                 00.00   01.32    01.32       00.00    00.63    00.63
Total                            14.07   24.00    38.07       15.02    23.38    38.58
*Includes US$ 10 million for retroactive financing of expenditures incurred after September 9, 1991.
Based on the appraisal exchange rate of US$1 = Denar 40.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                            Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs    costs
World Bank                       00.0    24.0    24.0         00.00    23.38    23.38
Government                       14.7    00.0    14.7         15.20    00.00    15.20
Total                            14.7    24.0    38.7         15.20    23.38    38.58



- 14 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Type of Expenditure               Cost in US$    Estimated IERR            Actual IERR
Tetovo-Gostivar Highway              27,803,150           18.00                18.34
Kichevo-Botun Highway                 8,616,369           23.00                26.23
Benefits in denars                     Tetovo-Gostivar                           Kicevo-Botun
Year                                    1996                 2015                 1996               2005
Vehicle Operating Cost                  69,205,002          136,555,526          20,756,099         62,106,963
Fassenger's time                        96,145,319          121,312,507          35,606,201         65,451,086
Accidents                                2,420,121             4,334,290          9,132,173           1,039,631
Maintenance                             20,508,219            14,755,759          4,607,739           4,845,528
Total                                 147,262,223           247,446,563          61,902,739        133,441,208
Totalfrom feasibility study           114,519,000           258,515,000         53,740,388         136,479,236
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Transit Facilitation Project
Covenant  Present   Original     Revised   Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement  Section      Type     Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Loan No
38680
3.01 (b)   10        C                                 Commitment to Project           None
4.01 (b)   2,13      C                                 Maintain records and audit      None
(i)                                                    accounts
4.01 (b)   2,13      C        06/30/96                 Submit audit to Bank            None
(ii)
4.02      2,13       C                                 Follow Bank criteria and        With PHARE and EIB
guidelines to carry out         support, road investments
investments.                    economically premature but
with strong regional
integration undertaken
Covenant types:
Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                    8. = Indigenous people
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting     C = covenant complied
beneficiaries                                        10. = Project implementation not covered by    with
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds                 categories 1-9                          CD = complied with after
4. = Counterpart funding                                11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or    delay
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  other resource allocation              CP = complied with
6. = Environmental covenants                            12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/   partially
7. = Involuntary resettlement                              regulatory/institutional action         NC = not complied with
13. = Other



- 15 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
n.a.                               n.a.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                      Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks      US$         Weeks        US$             Weeks        US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                        23.8        91.5
Appraisal                                                                       24.4        64.1
Negotiations through Board                                                      06.7        26.8
approval
Supervision                                                                     41.0        132.8
Completion                                                                      01.0        02.4
Total                97.1       318.2                                    96.9       317.6
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2     Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specializatiorl    Implem.    Developm. ProbleMS3
Year  Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through Appraisal:
Identification             03/93     2       12   E, HE
03/94     1       12   E
04/94     2       12   E, HE
07/94     1       3    E
02/95     1       11   E
10/95     1       2   E
Appraisal through Board    11/94     4       10   E, E, HE, HE
approval
Supervision                11/95     1       4    E                    HS           HS
05/96             11   E                    HS          HS
09/96     1       4    E                    HS          HS
12/97     1       3    E                   HS           HS
09/98     3       5   E,E, IS               HS          HS
Completion
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
HE-Highway Engineer                    HS-Highly satisfactory          P-Procurement
E- Economist                            S-Satisfactory                  T-Training
IS-Infrastructure Specialist            U-Unsatisfactory



Apendix A
REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA                                                   Page 1 of 
FUND FOR NATIONAL AND
REGIONAL ROADS-SKOPJE
Date:        May31, 1999
To:          Ms. Mirtba Pokomy
Title:       Program team leader
Dept/Div:   Inrastucture Sector Unit
THE WORLD BANK
Pages No:   8
Fax:        (202)477-1386
Subject:     Transit Facilitation Project
Loan 3868-MK
(ImpLementation Compledon Report)
Please find anached comments and contribution from the Fund for roads and
Customs administation for the draft Implementation CompleEion Report (ICR) for
the referenced project.
Sincerely yours,
Vulnet Paloshi, CEng. .
Director
SL Dane Gzuev 14; TeL 38991118-044. 2Z8-434; Fax 220-S35; 91000 Skopje. RI Macedonia



Appendix A
Page 2 of 5
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
FUND FOR NATIONAL AND REGIONAL ROADS
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
LOAN NO.3868-MK
Skopje, May 26,1999



Appendix A
Page 3 of 5
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
Loan No.3868-MK
This summary covers the implementation of road improvement works component
and institutional strengthening in the areas of the economic evaluation of road
investments and life-cost planning for PMS as broader part of the Transit Facilitation
Project.
The objectives of this Project were to facilitate the transit to the East-West
corridor, due to the closure of the North-South corridor. This was achieved through
funding the civil works for upgrading two road sections of the East-West corridor and
funding the technical assistance and equipment to strengthen Ministry of Urban
Development, Civil Engineering, Transport and Ecology and Fund for roads in the areas
of the economic evaluation and life-cost planning for PMS.
1 .    Civil Works Component
The road improvement works were included in the Yugoslavia Third Highway
Sector Project. The loan was cancelled prior to its effectiveness when the former
Yugoslavia was dissolved. The Transit Facilitation Project preparation started
immediately after the country became a member of the Bank, proceeded with a sense of
urgency because of the interruption of the North-South traffic, caused by the closure of
the Serbian and Greek borders. The Project has been addressed to the Macedonian's
major transport need, to provide a link to the outside world through its neighbours,
through improving the East-West connections to the port of Duress in Albania and
Burgas in Bulgaria, because Macedonia was depriving of access to the closest and most
economical outlet to the sea, the Greek port of Salonika. The economic importance of
upgrading the East West road links had been recognized before disruption of the traffic
on the North-South corridor. The preparation and appraisal of four road sections along
the East-West corridor had been undertaken as a part of the third Highway Sector Project
that was cancelled in 1991. The two road sections Tetovo-Gostivar and Kichevo-Botun
that are part of the East-West corridor were included in the Transit Facilitation Project.
The road section Tetovo-Gostivar in length of 19 km that has a high level of
deterioration, considerable congestion and a high accident rate was upgraded. Civil
works on this section, which included the reconstruction of the existing two lane
carriageway and construction of two additional lanes were completed in Septan'ber 1996.
The 40-lan two-lane road from Kichevo to Botun was the bottleneck on the M-26
between Skopje and Ohrid. Over the 31-km of its length had a poor condition of the
pavement, flow of traffic was impeded and the accident rate was high. Divil works on



Appendix A
Page 4 of 5
the road section Kichevo-Botun, entailing the complete rehabilitation of about 1 1-km and
overlaying and strengthening with asphalt concrete of about 20 km of pavement, were
complete.
The objective of improving transport along the country's corridor East-West
through the rehabilitation and upgrading of about 60 km of roads was achieved
substantially ahead of schedule and within the planmed budget. Also, the planned
reduction in transport costs is being realized.
The Bank performance was one of the most important factors for completion of
the civil works component about a year ahead of schedule. Flexibility on the part of the
Bank a willingness to take into account a Project's particular circumstances, such as
approving the unusually 42% of the loan amount instead of usual limit of 10% of the loan
amount for retroactive financing was one of the key factors irn easing implementation and
timely completion of the Project. The process of communication with the Bank was
ongoing throughout the year. Relations between the Bank staff and Road Fund staff
during the implementation penrod was excellent, that also contributed for the very good
implementation of the Project.
2.    Institutional Development Component
An institutional strengthening component funding technical assistance and
training to strengthen the Fund for roads, Ministry of Transport and Communications,
and the Ministry of Urban Development, Civil Engineering, and the Environment in the
area of the economic evaluation of different road investments and life-cost planning for
PMS are being realized. The technical assistance for the design and implementation of
the PMS and for training on economic evaluation of road investments was carried out by
Parkman, a ULK firm. With the assistance of the consultants, the Fund for Roads
established a PMS on approximately 500-km of mainly National Road. Local engineers
were trained in carrying out the visual inspection data gathering on road conditions on the
pilot road network, local professionals have been familiarized with the use of the system,
and the system has been calibrated to local conditions. The PMS allowed local staff to
forecast maintenance cost over a much greater time period than would be possible by
manual methods. This ensures that long-term decisions are made on a network-wide
basis, minimizing total maintenance costs and maximizing overall standards of condition.
The PMS allows economic and engineering considerations to be brought together in a
single system. The Fund is considering for providing of bearing capacity and roughness
measuring equipment. This will allow such data to be collected on a continuous basis
and thereby ensure the continued accuracy of the analysis process. The Fund for roads
continued expanding the system to the rest of the network after the departure of the
consultants. By the end of 1998 the system was covering about 1300 kn of roads, and by
the year 2000 it is expected to cover the whole road network for which Fund for roads is
responsible.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 5
In addition to the PMS study, the same consultant firm on the subject of economic
appraisal provided training for road schemes: this fell into two stages. The first
comprised lectures and seminars in which the principles of economic appraisal were
provided to the Road Fund staff and the staff from the Ministries, local consulting firms
and academia. The second phase involved the review of an economic appraisal exercise
carried out by Parkman (the Stip to Kocani road improvement) and workshop sessions,
which provided guidelines on the economic appraisal of another scheme (the Veles to
Prilep road construction project). There remains a need for key individuals at the Fund to
receive specific, focused training that will enable them to review feasibility reports from
a position of expert knowledge.
Contract for the purchase of the truck mounted bridge inspection equipment has
been signed and delivery is expected prior to June 30, 1999.
The Project objectives were fUlly achieved. The road improvement component
was carried out at a very satisfactory level and institutional improvements in the Fund for
Roads were considerable.
World Bank User
P?\MACEDONNNFRA\TRANSITF\7ICR\MINSTRY.DOC
06/10/99 3:41 PM



Appendix B
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF MXACDONIA
CJSTOX8 ADM4ZSTRATION
Lazar Licenoski, 13
Skopje 91000
May 26, 1999
To:
Mrs. Mirtha Pokorny
World Bank
Room RS-133
1818 R Street
Washingtonz DC 20433
USA
SMJRcT: Tranmsit Facilitation Project
World Bank Loan 3868 - mx
Dear Mrs. Pokorny,
Afrer reviewing your drafr Impl.ementation Completion
Report on the above stated pru.ject, we are sending you our
Profect   ImpleMenLation   Sumnmary,   fox   your   records   and
documnentation.
YOurs SiinciLely,
~ ~\  To2cto   oAoD Danovr,
W ectecor oaf AD  Departmenet



Appendix B
Page 2 of 4
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
CUSTOMS ADMMISTRATION
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
LOAN N0.3868-MK
Skopje, May 26,1999



Appendix B
Page 3 of 4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
TRANSIT FACILITATION PROJECT
Loan No.3868-MK
This summary covers the implementation of the Customs Modernization and
Computerization Project Component, as part of the broader Transit Facilitation Project,
funded by the World Bank Loan No.3868-MK.
The objective of this Project was to facilitate the transit, with the main accent on the East-
West transport corrdor, identified as a bottle neck due to the closure of the previously
functional North-South corridor. This was achieved through funding technical assistance
in order to modermize customs procedures and improve the effectiveness of the
Administration in general, and for equipment intended for introduction of MAKCIS-
Macedonian Customs Information System (hardware and software component).
1.    Structural Adjustment of the Customs Administration
The technical assistance was provided for the structural adjustment of the Customs
Administration to EU and WCO Customs practices, introduction of legislative changes,
improvement of the enforcement capabilities, introduction of post-release audits and
valuation checks. The technical assistance was carried out under the 1vLF supervision.
(a)   The Single Administrative Document for exports and imports, was
successfully introduced at all levels (operational, technical and personnel),
thus allowing for its use in all Customs procedures. Simplified procedures
were also introduced, which provided for drastic reduction of clearance
delays. The direct result of this is the increase of customs revenue,
compared to the past penrod.
(b)   Another indicator of the successful Project implementation was the
introduction of the new Customs Law, which is compatible to the EU
Customs Code, which incorporates modem provisions and introduces EU
practices. The part of the Customs Law that defines the organizational
structure of the Administration and the powers and obligations of Customs
officials took effect on January 1, 1999. The overall taking effect of the
Customs Law is planned for the beginning of next year, after the
introduction of the sub-legislation, which is undergoing preparation for
making the Law Operational.
(c)    The enforcement capabilities of Customs have been improved and are
operational within the available information system and networks. The
introduction of the new Customs Law will provide for extended powers of
the Customs officials thus exercising post-release checks, audits in firms
and selectivity in Customs examninations.



Appendix B
Page 4 of 4
(d)   The introduction of the Valuation Unit is another acquisition of this Project. The
Unit has a structure which provides for efficient valuation checks, carried out directly in
the field, supervised by the experiences and trained valuation staff in HQ.
2.    MAKCIS - Macedonian Customs Information System
The introduction of the Macedonian Customs Information System consisted of
implementation of its hardware and software component.
(a)   The actual implementation began in 1996 when the adequate computer equipment
was selected and installed. Owing to the dedicated engagement of the Automatic
Data Processing Department, UNCTAD and IMF experts, the benefits and the
success became apparent already in 1996 and 1997. The equipment was installed
in all inland clearance offices and in headquarters. The remaiing part of the
equipment, necessary for equipping border posts is about to be delivered, and its
installation will encircle the computerization of the Administration.
(b)   After necessary hardware components have been provided and in consultations
with the EU experts, the ASYCLTDA software package was selected. This
software package was provided by IJNCTAD, in accordance with ElH practices
and standards. The ASYCUDA software consists of several modules, which
present many advantages for facilitation of the customs procedures, its ease for
adjustment, upgrading and amending for Customs users, exchange of data with
other



t}  ,  .          i   ~~~~~~~FEDERAL RPBI     Y    SVI                                          J,e                                       ON EAS1 WEST CORRIDOR
4  -  v I/Puke   /  (' 4/Goshvar  FORMER Y2GwLAV PEP0JBLIt < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-OTHR RAD
ik    I1\wRJAILROADS /S                                                                   o  m    Sg5hmcc 
dirn  >t/ +hs          t  > f   A                 T >    f  <                     <              a ;1!                 lq-q 42-    IVER
:<,. 4 'aw < \ Rm t9 /t / {>--:tX t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEETE  ITE
f~ IJ XXi , >  
|  fORAtRVUCiOSIAVRff B C OF ACfCONA  _  ewk   t: \  J-'( K  4/   @-~~~~~~~~~~ t Cef .  W   ,x,<9 ANDT WN
TvNSIT HACILITATION PROJECT  \  S      0 X  > X X           tS,Aion           /        Wp   ' .R1 VAt{8  p;L-MA 4/t;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATONALCAPTAL
o lo_0   sUMErEmr  anir           t  U >X22,X             4  X               verifM        8|? Xlt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTINIINA
9                                                                                            )v .'>   /  2n  <    X vl/   s> rq 4> 22 _ J S7>.f2L L - tiE F;19e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -  A   R P R T



