Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6c/AJ  3o  ,L-A/
Report No. 7588-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
APRIL 6, 1989
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       - Rapee (Rs)
Rs 1                -  100 P'isa
US$ 1               - Rs 14.6
Rs 1                   US$0.0685
Rs 1 million           US$68,493
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Metric Ton (mt)                - 1,000 kilograms (kg).
1 Metric Ton (mt)                - 2,204 Pounds (lb)
1 Meter                          -  3.28 Feet
1 Kilometer (km)                 - 0.62 Miles
1 Cubic Meter (m3)               - 35.3 Cubic Feet (cft)
1 Barrel (Bbl)                   - 0.159 Cubic Meter, 42 gallons
1 Metric Ton of Oil (330 API)   - 7.3 Barrels
1 Normal Cubic Meter (Nm3)
of Natural Gas                - 37.32 Standard Cubic Feet (SCF)
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)             -  3.97 British Thermal Units (Btu)
1 Bbl/d                          -  1 Barrel per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BCM (BCF)       - Billion cubic meters (feet)
DEA             - Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India
EIL             - Engineers India Limited
ERR             - Economic rate of return
GOI             - Government of India
IDC             - Interest during construction
IRR             - Internal rate of return
IOB             - Indian Oil Blending Ltd.
IOC             -  Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.
LPG             - Liquefied petroleum gas
MCM             - Million cubic meters
MCM (MCFD)      - Million cubic meters (feet per day)
MMCMD (MMCFD)   - Million cubic meters (feet) per day
MMtoe           - Million metric tons of oil equivalent
MMTPA           - Millions of metric tons per annum
NGL             - Natural gas liquids
NPV             - Net present value
OIL             - Oil India Limited
ONGC            - Oil and Natural Gas Comamission
SBM             - Single Buoy Mooring System
toe             -  (Metric) ton of oil equivaleni
TCF             - Trillion cubic feet



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
INDIA
PE:ROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE SECTOR................................................... 
A. The Overview                        .1
B. Energy Demand ................1.....    ..    1
C. Energy Supply.                                                   3
D. Energy Balances.                                                 6
E. The Government's Energy Strategy .8
F. Pricing Policies for Oil Products.                               9
G. Investment Strategy: Increased Reliance on Oil Product
Imorts .11
H.  Transport of Petroleum Products in India .12
T. Involvement of the Private Sector .14
J. Management of the Sector .15
K. Bank's Role in the Sector .15
II.  THE BORROWER ..................................................    17
A. Introduction .17
B. Organization and Mangement .17
C. Operating Performance .18
D. Accounts .18
E. Audit .19
F. Insurance Practices .19
G. Remuneration and Pricing System .20
H. Investment Program .20
III. THE PROJECT .22
A. Background and Objectives .22
B. Project Description .22
C.  Status of Project Preparation... ..........................   24
D. Capital Cost Estimate .25
E. Project Financing .26
F. Project Iplementation .27
G. Procurement .28
H. Disbursements .31
I. Ecology and Safety .31
J. Project Reporting Requirements .32
K. Project Risks: .33
This report was prepared by Messrs. L. Wijetilleke (Sr. Chemical Engineer),
P. Blackshaw (Principal Transport Economist), A.S. El-Mekkawy (Principal
Petroleum Engineer), P. Pollak (Sr. Economist), M. Sergo (Sr. Financial
Analyst) and H. Schober (Consultant) on the basis of an appraisal mission that
visited India in October 1988.
This document has arestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties.lIts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                       .. .                         34
A. Introduction                         ..                           34
B. Pricing System                        ..                          34
C. IOC's Finances                        ..                          35
D. Financial Covenants                     ..                        39
E. Project Financial Evaluation                 ..                   39
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION           .......................   41
A.  Introduction .......................                             41
B.  Economic Evaluation of Khandla-Bhatinda Product Pipeline..    41
C.  Economic Evaluation of Single Buoy Mooring System .........   43
D.  Economic Evaluation of Refinery Components ................    45
E.  Overall Resultr of the Economic Evaluation ................   46
VI.  AGREEMEN,S AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................................   47
ANNEXES
2.1   Organization Chart
2.2   Performance Indicators
2.3   Pricing and Margins
3.1   Project Cost Estimates
3.2   Project Implementation Schedules
3.3   Disbursem--nts
3.4   Pollution Control
3.5   Progress Reporting Requirements
4.1   Notes and Assumptions for Financial Statements
4.2   Income Statements, Balance Sheets & Funds Flow Statements
4.3   Financial Rate of Return Calculations for Pipeline
4.4   Financial Rate of Return Calculations for SBM
4.5   Financial Rate of Return Calculations for Catalytic Reformers
4.6   Financial Rate of Return Calculations for DDCS
4.7   Financial Rate of Return Calculations for Haldia Lube Block
5.1   Supply-Demand Balance of Products in North-West
5.2   Economic Cost Rail Transport Alternative:  Kandla-Karnal
5.3   Product Loss Avoided:  Kandla-Karnal
5.4   Economic Cost Rail Transport Alternative:  Karnal-Bhatinda
5.5   Economic Evaluation Product Pipeline - Kandla-Karnal
5.6   Economic Evaluation Product Pipeline - Karnal-Bhatinda
5.7   Economic Evaluation Product Pipeline - Kandla-Bhatinda
5.8   Estimation of Economic Benefits for SBM
5.9   Economic Evaluation of SBM
5.10  Economic Evaluation of Catalytic Reformers
S.l1  Economic Evaluation of Distributed Digital Control Systems
5.12  Economic Evaluation of Haldia Lube Block
MAP     No. IBRD 21079 - Showing Proposed Petroleum Products and Crude Oil
Supply System.



- iii. -
INDIA
P TROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOC)
Gua-rantor:           India, acting by its President
ha=m t:              US$340.0 million equivalent
Lending TeDms:       Twenty years, including five years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Guarantee Fee:       Consistent with the Government's terms for loan
guarantees to public sector enterprises.
Proliect Des ription: The objectives of the Petroleum Transport project are to:
(i) improve the efficiency and flexibility of petroleum
transport; (ii) facilitate import of petroleum products
and crude; and (iii) modernize IOC's pipeline and
refinery operations. In particular, the project will
provide financial support for:
- a 1,450 km products pipeline from the port of Kandla
to Bhatinda;
- a Single Buoy Mooring (SBM) system at Salaya;
- facilities to reduce the lead content of gasoline in
two IOC refineries;
- distributed digital control systems (DDCS) in IOC's
refineries;
-  two 15 MW gas turbine power generators for the Digboi
Refinery;
- equipment and services required to improve product
yield and energy conservation in refineries;
- expansion of the lubricating oil complex and provision
of a sulphur plant at the Haldia Refinery; and
- consulting services for pipeline inspection, energy
conservativn and yield optimization studies and
training.



- iv -
Proiect Benefits:    The pipeline offers substantial savings in transport
costs compa-'d to the next best alternative, rail
transport. The SBM will improve the security of
petroleum products supply to the nortnwest of India;
other project components will improve refinery efficiency
and have a beneficial environr.ental impact through energy
conservation and reduced lead content in gasoline. As a
reoult of the project, IOC will also get access to modern
petroleum industry technology and management practices,
particularly in key operational areas such as
computerization, process corntrol and simulation, and
production optimization.
Proiect Risks:       Cost over-runs and delays in project completion
constitute the major project risks.   The economic impact
of the project is relatively insensitive to cost over-
runs.  A 10% cost over-run would lower the overall
project rate of return from 26% to 23%.  The project is
more sensitive to implementation delays but the economic
rationale remains robust to the likely range of risk: a
two year delay would reduce the overall rate of return to
21%. Errors in demand projections are another source of
risk. As product imports are the balancing item in
meeting the demand-supply gap, only the Kandla-Bhatinda
pipeline, which is intended for products would be
affected. If the rate of growth in demand is 25% less
than projected the rate of return will fall from 22% to
18%. The project reduces environmental risks; remainin.
are minimized as strict environmental standards are
enforced.



v 
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
-(US$ million) -----
Transport Facilities
Khandla-Bhatinda PIL                             269         179       448
Second SBM                                         5           7        12
Cat. Reformer at Barauni                          38           9        47
Cat. Reformer at Digboi                           15           3        18
Dist. Digital Control System                      61          35        96
Power Plant at Digboi                              2          16        18
Yield Optimization & Energy Conservation          20          14        34
Haldia:  Lube Block & Sulphur Plant               10           6        16
Sulphur Plant                                      6           -         6
Techn. Assist. & Training                          7           7        14
Base Cost                                     433         276       709
Physical contingency /a                           43          28        71
Price contingency Lb                             100          64       164
Total Project Cost                            576/c       368       944
Interest During Construction:
Bank loan                                        -          46        46
Other loans                                      7          12        19
Total Finakicing Required                     583         426    1,009
/a 102 of base cost.
lb 212 of base cost and physical contingencies.
ic Includes US$185.0 million or taxes and duties.



- vi -
Financing Plan:
I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lgcal    Fo-reig  Total
----- (US$ million) -----
IBRD                                             47        293       340
Export and Suppliers Credits                     --         75        75
IOc                                             536         58       594
Total financing Reauired                                426    l
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year            FY90     FY91       EY 9 M4
Annual                         35       110      130       50        15
Cumulative                     35      145       275      325       34b
Economic Rate
of Return:         Kandla-Bhatinda Pipeline                         22%
SBM                                             29%
Distributed Digital Control System              42%
Catalytic Reformers                             20%
Haldia Lube Oil Block                           48%
Overall Project (weighted average)              26%



T. THE SECTOR
A. Overview
1.1      Energy is critical for accelerating the growth of the Indian economy.
As part of its efforts to reduce poverty and provide employment to a rapidly
growing labor force, the Government decided to step up the growth of the
economy from its currpnt average rate of about 4.5Z to 6Z during the Eighth
Five Year Plan (1990-95). One of the major obstacles to accelerating economic
growth will be the widening gap between the demand for energy and indigenous
energy production.  This poses a serious dilemma for the Government's economic
planners. Closing the gap through energy imports would result in a heavy
drain on foreign exchange. Allocating a larg!r share of domestic resources to
increasing indigenous energy supplies would deprive other sectors, particu-
larly the social sectors, of increasingly scarce resources. Rationing of
energy supplies, or the other hand, would lead to serious disruptions in the
economy.
1.2      There is currently a lively debate within the Government about the
strategy India should adopt in dealing with this widening energy gap.
Increasingly, the wisdom of the Government's current energy strategy, which
had evolved in response to the sharp increase of internaticnal oil prices
during the 1970s, is being questioned. The main thrust of this strategy
continues to aim at reducing the use of oil products through energy conserva-
tion, and substitution of domestic coal for oil products where this is techni-
cally and economically feasible. Initially this strategy was quite success-
ful. Despite the efforts to slow the growth of energy demand through various
conservation measures and pricing, demand for energy outpaced economic growth.
The availability of vast, albeit low-quality, coal reserves and the discovery
of the Bombay High oilfield, however, made it possible to meet the growing
domestic demand for energy, and at the same time reduce the dependence on oil
imports.
1.3      In the years ahead, India may again face the possibility of a major
increase of oil imports for two reasons. First, output from the Bombay High
oilfield, which represents about 70? of domestic oil production, has now
reached a plateau. Second, continued investments in oil and gas exploration
by India's two national oil production companies, the Oil and Natural Gas
Commission (ONGC) and Oil India Ltd. (OIL) have not led to any major new oil
discoveries. The proposed project would, through the construction of
infrastructure facilities for the transport of oil products, assist India in
meeting its oil product requirements increasingly through purchases in
international markets.
B. Energy Demand
1.4      Demand for energy in India is closely linked to the pace of economic
growth. The acceleratioh of economic growth that has taken place since the
early 1980s has led to a sharp increase in the demand for energy, in particu-
lar commercial fuels (i.e. oil products, coal, natural gas and electric
power). Since the beginning of the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) the economy
grew at an average annual rate of about 4.9 2 while the consumption of commer-
cial fuels has grown at 7.32 per annum. This increase in the rate of energy
consumption has been associated with a greater reliance on the use of oil



-2-
products: while coal continues to account for more than 502 of energy
consumption, oil products now make up about one-third of all commercial energy
consumed, and hydro-electric power and natural gas account current.y for 11.72
and 5.92 of commercial energy consumption, respectively.
1.5      The factors that contribute to the rapid growth of India's energy
demand fall into two broad categories,--those leading to the comparatively
high energy intensity of its industrial, transport and agriculture sectors,
and tho!e resulting in a shift from traditional fuels to commercial fuels.
1.6      High Energy Intensity.  India's industrial sector, its transport
sector, and increasingly also its agricultural sector are highly energy inten-
sive. Several factors have contributed to the high energy intensity. One
such factor has been the Government's policy of economic self-sufficiency. As
a result of this policy, India has developed a wide industrial base. Highly
energy intensive industries, such as steel, aluminum, copper, cement, petro-
chemicals and fertilizer were set up when energy was comparatively inexpen-
sive. Scarcity of capital has restrained these industries from replacing
their energy intensive equipment, in spite of the steep rise of domestic
energy prices since the early 1970s. In terms of energy intensity, India's
industrial sector ranks now near the top among developing countries, and well
above the average among industrial countries.
1.7      A second factor has been the Government's policy to ensure that all
regions participate evenly in the benefits of economic growth, in particular
employment opportunities. This policy continues to play an important role in
decisions about the location of new industrial plants. As a result of this
policy, industrial plants are widely dispersed all over the country. Since
their access to the rail and road network is usually poor, they have to rely
mostly on electric power to meet their energy needs. Partly as a result of
this policy, India has developed an energy supply system that relies heavily
on coal-based thermal power generation. Considering India's generally inade-
quate transport systent, it is the only way to provide widely dispersed
consumers with access to the country's abundant coal resources. Because of the
high losses that occur in thermal power generation as well as in the transmis-
sion and distribution of power, this policy contributes significantly to the
high energy intensity of the economy.
1.8      A third factor has been the Government's efforts to shield the
economy from the variations in rainfall caused by the monsoon. Massive
investments in irrigation and widespread use of electric- and diesel-driven
pumps, together with the increased mechanization of agriculture, have contri-
buted to the growing energy intensity of India's agriculture.
1.9      Shift from Traditional to Commercial Fuels.  While the share of
i         commercial fuels in India's energy c,asumption has increased sharply, tradi-
tional fuels, such as fuel wocd, cow dung and vegetable wastes remain India's
most important energy resources.  In 1986/87, non-commercial fuels accounted
!         for more than 502 of India's total energy consumption.  Consumption of these
fuels was equivalent to about 110 million tons of oil or about five times
India's domestic oil production. Fuelwood accounts for roughly two-thirds of
the consumption of traditional fuels.  The remaining third consists of vege-
table wastes and cow dung. In rural areas, fuelwood remains the main cooking
fuel, while kerosene is mainly used for lighting. In urban areas, fuelwood is



increasingly being replaced by kerosene, electricity and LPG (liquified petro-
leum gas) as a cooking fuel. Still, its comparatively low price makes fuel-
wood an attractive fuel for the urban poor.
1.10     Since the steep increase in domestic oil prices during the 1970s, thte
demand for fuelwood has increased sharply. Forest recerves have declined, and
many regions in India experience severe shortages of fuelwood. In many
regions, these shortages accelerate the depletion of forest reserves; they
also force large segments of the rural population to spend more and more of
their time in collecting fuel wood; and they reduce crop yields as poorer
farmers have to divert an increasing share of animal wastes from use as ferti-
lizer to serve as cooking fuel. To slow the process of deforestation, the
Government is subsidizing the use of kerosene, which, in turn, results in high
demand for this product.
C. Energy Supply
1.11     Considering the size of the Indian economy and its population, India
is relatively modestly endowed with energy resources. Its per capita use of
energy is among the lowest in the world. and, in spite of allocating almost
one-third of its public investment resources to the development of its
indigenous energy resources, India remains dependent on imports to meet most
of its domestic energy needs.
1.12     Ene.gy Resource Base.  Although India has a wide range of commercial
energy resources, including oil, natural gas, coal, hydro-electric potential,
and uranium, the currently known reserves of these resources do not match the
structure of its energy demand. India's (proven and probable) petroleum
reserves are estimated at 581 million tons. At current consumption levels
these reserves would be exhausted in 19 years. Thus, unless exploration
efforts by ONGC and OIL succeed in raising production, India will need to meet
its demand for petroleum products increasingly through imports of crude oil
and products. Natural gas, which India is just beginning to utilize, may
offer some respite. Natural gas, the reserves of which are estimated at 540
billion cubic meters (BCM), could replice some oil products. So could the
development of additional hydro-electric capacity. Up to now, India has
developed only about 13,000 MW of its hydro-Alectric potential, which is
estimated at 100,000 MW. Coal will remain the mainstay of India's energy
supply. India's coal reserves, which are estimated at more than 170 billion
tons, by far exceed those of all other commercial fuels. Unfortunately, most
of these reserves consist of low-quality coal. In its efforts to contain the
growth of oil product imports, the Government allocates a large share of its
investments to the development of coal reserves and the expansion of thermal
power capacity. India has also modest reserves of uranium which coulc support
a nuclear power program of about 8000 MW to 10 000 MW.
1.13     Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production.  Oil production has increased
dramatically over the past ten years, mainly as a result of the discovery and
development of the Bombay High oilfield, which contributes about 66Z to
current domestic production. In 1986/87, however, production from the Bombay
High oil fields started to decline. Produztion from the two onshore regions,
Assam and Gujarat, is being sustained by improved recovery levels from
existing fields, augmented by production from several smaller discoveries.
The steep increase in indigenous oil production provided India with a tempo-
rary buffer against the economic impact of the increase in international oil



- 4-
prices. The Government recognizes that this reprieve may be short-lived, and
that there is a need to prepare for potentially serious energy shortfalls in
the 1990s. Li its Seventh Five-Year Plan, the Government has therefore:
(a) Almost doubled the public investment program for exploration and
development of oil and gas resources;
(b) Actively encouraged the involvement of the Indian private sector in
contracting and services (drilling, data acquisition and processing)
and international oil companies in oil and gas exploration;
(c) Approved investments to accelerate and enhance the use of gas, which
would replace some of the demand for oil products; and
(d) Decided to expand the infrastructure for imports of crude oil and oil
products.
1.14     India probably has more undiscovered gas than oil resources.  Gas
could play an important role in meeting India's energy demand in the future.
While small amounts of associated gas have been produced in the Gujarat and
Assam regions fot many -ears, and large quantities of associated gas have been
produced since 1981 from the Bombay High oilfield, only small amounts of
available gas were used commercially. Until recently, the bulk of associated
gab had been flared, mainly because the necessary infrastructure for process-
ing and transporting of gas had been lacking. Utilization of gas has to some
extent been restricted by the absence of adequate processing, transmission and
distribution facilities, and by delays in developing markets for gas. At
present, natural gas accounts for only 12 of India's commercial energy
consumption.
1.15     This situation is now changing as the magnitude of India's proven gas
reserves becomes apparent. With the discovery of large reserves of non-
associated gas in the South Bassein area offshore, in the vicinity of the
Bombay High oilfield, as well as onshore in Gujarat, the Government has now
drawn up plans for the utilization of these gas resources. Initially, the
Government restricted the use of gas to fertilizer and petrochemical indus-
tries, on the assumption that the availability of gas was quite limited.
After the discovery of substantial resources of free gas, the Government has
relaxed this policy, and is now seeking to expand the market to power plants
and industrial users. To facilitate the marketing of gas, the Government has
just completed construction of the 1700 km Hazira-Bijaipur-Jagdishpur (HBJ)
gas pipeline, which will take gas from the South Bassein gas field on India's
west coast to fertilizer and power plants in the interior.
1.16     There is substantial scope fcr increasing the production of oil and
gas in India, both through the discovery of new reserves as well as through
increasing the rate of recovery from existing fields. Estimates prepared by
the Government indicate that many areas with considerable potential for dis-
covering petroleum are still unexplored, and that only a fraction of the
country's prognosticated oil and gas resources may have been found up to now.
Bank staff estimates that about 50X of the expected oil and 75X to 80X of the
expected gas resources still remain to be found. Current progniosticated
petroleum reserves in India are about 17 billion tons of oil and oil equiva-
lent of gas. About two-thirds of these reserves are expected to be located



offshore. Based on average global recovery factors, this would point to
commercially recoverable petroleum reserves in the order of 4.5 to 5.5 billion
tons. Up to now, only a quarter of these potential reserves has been proven.
In view of these large potential reserves, India is justified in maintaining a
large oil and gas exploration program. However, considering the large invest-
ments and risks involved India will need to rely increasingly on private risk
capital in its oil and gas exploration efforts and, because of the possible
time lags involved in developing discoveries, expand its capabilities to
import crude oil and products in order to be able to meet the growing domestic
demand.
1.17     Coal Production.  Because of its abundant reserves, coal remains the
cornerstone of India's energy strategy. The demand for coal increased sharply
when fuel oil in power and industrial steam generation was phased out and
replaced by coal, in response to the increase of international oil prices
during the 1970s. Power generation and industry account now for almost 802 of
coal demand. To meet the rapidly growing demand of these sectors, the
Government embarked on a massive investment program that favored highly mecha-
nized open cast mines. Production from these mines, whira have a compara-
tively short gestation period, increased steeply and accounts now for about
602 of coal production. Because these mines can only tap reserves that are
c.loser to the surface, the quality of coal tends to be lower compared to that
mined underground. Thus, over the years the average quality of India's coal
production has been declining steadily. Although India's coal is compara-
tively inexpensive (coal prices average Rs 220, equivalent to US$15, per ton
at the mine), the steady deterioration of coal quality and rising transport
costs have reduced it- eccaomic attraction.
1.18     Power Supply.  The Government's twin objectives of:  (a) achieving
economic self-sufficiency; and (b) spreading economic growth as evenly as
possible among regions, has accorded electric power a unique role in India.
The objective of economic self-sufficiency led to investments in highly
energy-intensive industries, such as aluminum smelters, steel and chemicals,
and subsidized power tariffs. The objective of 'equitable economic growth'
played a crucial role in locating industries in areas where unemployment was
comparatively high. Electric power remains often the only means to provide
these 'green field' industries with the energy they need. Mainly as a result
of these policies, the demand for power continues to grow at a rate of 8-9Z
per year. I- spite of lrrge investments in the expansion of generating
capacity, power utilities have not been able to close the power gap.
1.19     The Government as well as consumers have taken steps to close the
'power gap' and to reduce the impact of power shortages. The Government has
stepped up investments in thermal power generating capacity, since it takes on
average less than half the time to build thermal power plants than hydro
electric plants. By having less hydro-electric power available in the supply
system, thermal power plants have to be used increasingly to meet peak load
demand. The 'firing up' and 'idling' of boilers is mostly done with fuel oil.
Power users have also resorted to the acquisition of 'captive power plants'
that use diesel, diesel driven pumps for irrigation, and kerosene stoves in
urban households. Thus, most of these measures contribute to the demand for
oil products.



-6
D. Energy Balances
1.20     Table 1.1 summarizes the Government's projections of energy demand
and supplies in India up to the year 2000. According to these projections,
the gap between energy requirements and indigenous energy production is
expected to increase,--about 17.6 million tons in 1986/87 to about 50 million
tons in the year 2000. To close this gap, the Government will primarily rely
on the imports of crude oil and oil products. These projections assume that
indigenous oil production would increase by almost 502 over the next twelve
years. The Bank's staff estimates that, without further discoveries, oil
production from existing fields and fields under development could reach 38
million tons. To attain the oil production projected by the Government, ONGC
and OIL would need to discover an additional 275 million tons of oil, assuming
no decline in the reserves-to-production ratio. As indicated in para 1.16
only about one-fourth of India's potential of 5 billion tons of oil reserves
have been proven thus far. While the addition of 275 million tons is
feasible, there remains a considerable risk that oil output will fall short of
this target. Oil import requirements could therefore increase to over 50
million tons by the year 2000, if exploration efforts result in no net
additions to oil reserves.



-7-
Table 1.1: ENERGY SUPPLIES AND THEIR USE IN INDIA, 1970 TO 2000
(Million tons of oil equivalent)
1970/71    1980/81    1986/87    1989/90    1999/2000
Energy Productioan      136.62      182.84     234.20      271.28      415.00
Oil                       6.82       10.51      30.48       35.43       45.00
Gas                       1.25        2.06       8.81       14.90       30.00
Coal                     36.17       56.51      74.50       90.55      162.00
Electricity               8.16       10.76      17.41       19.20       47.00
Traditional Fuels        84.22      103.00     103.00      111.20      131.00
Net Imports              12.20       23.28      17.61       32.50       49.00
Oil                      12.43       23.50      16.07       29.00       45.00
Coal                     -0.23       -0.22       1.54        3.50        4.00
Energy Requirements    148.82       206.12     251.81      303.78      464.00
Conversion and
Distribution losses    16.90        36.40      55.46       60.70       73.40
Stock Changes             2.41        3.43       0.30        2.23        0.00
Energy Consumption      129.51      173.15     196.65      245.31      390.60
Industry                 22.05       36.96      45.27       52.00      100.20
Transport                12.45       15.03      19.97       29.00       52.00
Agriculture               1.62        3.92       6.80        9.40       18.90
Residential/
Commercial              90.67      111.53     115.34      132.00      180.00
Non energy uses           2.71        5.70       6.72       22.22       38.00
Other uses                0.01        0.01       z.55        0.69        1.50
Source:  Power and Energy Division, Planning Commission, India.
1.21     The growing import requirements for oil products constitute one of
the high priority issues the Indian economy will face in the years ahead.
Apart from posing a potentially heavy burden on the balance of payments, heavy
investments in additional refinery (and conversion) capacity may also be
required. As the following discussion of the Government's energy strategy
shows, Tndia has basically three options to meet this demand. One it could
increase the domestic production of fuels, such as natural gas, that would
replace at least part of the demand for oil products. Two, it could import
oil products, and three, it could expand its domestic refinery capacity and
import crude oil. The reluctance of the Government to increase its dependence
on imports of crude oil and oil products stems from the concern that it would
increase India's vulnerability to large price fluctuations in international
markets.



E. The Government's Energy Strategy
1.22     India's energy strategy was designed during the early 1980s in
response to the sharp increase of the import bill for crude oil and petroleum
products. To ease the leavy burden of oil imports the Government adopted a
two pronged strategy. First, the Government allocated a larger share of its
resources to the development and production cf indigenous energy resources, in
particular the exploration for oil and gas, the expansion of coal and gas-
based thermal power plants and the development of highly mechanized open cast
coal mines. In parallel, the Government raised the prices of oil products
relative to those of indigenous fuels (mainly coal and power), and rationed
access to oil products where pricing policies were ineffective to slow the
demand for energy and to encourage the substitution of oil products in as many
end uses as were economically and technically feasible.
1.23     The Seventh Five Year Plan contains the only formal stateme~nt of the
Government's energy strategy. It provides an indication of the Government's
strategy objectives and thus its investment priorities. According to this
statement the Government gives priority to:
(a) The accelerated exploitation of coal, hydro and nuclear power;
(b) Intensified exploration for oil and gas, and exploitation of oil with
regard to available recoverable reserves and reasonable expectations
of adding to them in the foreseeable future;
(c) Advance policy planning for the large emerging gas potential;
(d) Management of oil demand including formulation of a national
transport fuel policy;
(e) Energy conservation including interfuel substitution;
(f) Increasing the productive efficiency of capacities already created
and of equipment used;
(g) Exploitation -f renewable energy resources, such as energy forestry,
biogas, biomass, wind and solar energy, to meet especially the energy
requirements of rural communities;
(h) Intensification of research and development of all energy resources,
particularly with regard to emerging energy technologies;
(i) Design and implementation of area-based integrated rural development
programs; and
(j) Campaigns to educate the public about the objectives of the
Government's energy strategy in order to ensure its acceptance and
successful implementation.
This strategy is rather comprehensive. The large number of its objectives
reflects the diverse energy needs of the Indian economy, which span the
growing demand for commercial fuels as well an the energy needs of India's



vast, and mostly poor rural population. Implementation of this strategy
requires not only sizeable resources, but also far-reaching changes in
existing policies.
1.24     The scope for allocating large additional investment resources to the
energy sector is becoming increasingly limited. This reflects, in part, the
fact that the energy sector is already receiving almost 30Z of planned outlays
under the Seventh Five-Year Plan; in part, it is an indication of the growing
demand on public resources from other sectors, in particular the social
sectors. The Mid-Term Review of the Seventh elan shows that, while India is
making progress towards achieving its ambitious objectives in the energy
sector, the allocated resources are insufficient to provide the economy with
the energy it needs. The investment requirements are particularly large in
the oil, gas and refinery sectors. Major investment priorities of these
sectors include:
(a) The accelerated exploration for oil and gas, faster development of
discoveries and greater efforts to enhance the output from mature
fields;
(b) The construction of infrastructure facilities for the transport of
crude oil, oil products and gas (para 1.33); and
(c) Modifications of existing refineries in line with the changing
pattern of oil product demand and the need for greater energy
conservation
1.25     Implementation of the Government's energy strategy requires changes
in established policies with regard to investment, organization, institutional
arrangements, financing and operational efficiency of these sectors. These
policy changes will need to aim at further gains in improving the efficiency
of public sector enterprises and reducing dependence on public resources. The
following issues, which are critical for meeting the country's growing energy
requirements in line with the twin objectives of greater operational
efficiency and less dependen^e on public resources, will need to be addressed
by the government:
(a)  Improved management of energy demand, in particular energy conserva-
tion and pricing policies for oil products (para. 1.26);
(b) Investment strategy: Increased reliance on oil product imports
(para. 1.30);
(c) Increased involvement of the private sector (para. 1.36).
These issues are briefly discussed in the following paragraphs.
F. Pricing Policies for Oil Products
1.26     Energy pricing policies play a key role in attaining the objectives
of the Government's energy strategy. Although they are designed to achieve a
multiplicity of sometimes conflicting goals, their primary objectives are to
encourage energy conservation and the substitution of indigenous energy



- 10 -
resources--in particular (hydro-electric) power and coal--for oil products as
well as to mobilize resources for the development of indigenous energy
resources.
1.27     Pricing of Oil Products.  Petroleum product prices are set by the
Government. In determining the price levels for the various oil products the
Government aims to achieve not only the broader objectives of its energy
pricing policy, but in addition wants to: (i) ensure that refineries recover
their full costs; (ii) minimize regional price differences of the various
products; (iii) insulate domestic consumers to the extent possible from price
fluctuations in international crude oil and oil product markets; and (iv) meet
at least part of the demand of poorer segm.ents of the population. To accommo-
date all these objectives, the Pricing Committee, which is ultimately respon-
sible for determining the prices of oil products at various points in the
production and marketing chain, has devised a rather complex pricing regime.
It consists essentially of three stages, the determination of ex-refinery
prices. ex-storage prices, and prices to retailers/consumers.
1.28     To achieve these objectives, the Government has appointed an Oil Cost
Review Committee, which determines the (ex-refinery) prices at which each of
India's twelve refineries may sell their products. In setting these prices,
the Committee makes sure that each refinery can fully recover its costs and
achieve in addition a 12Z post tax return on investment. To insulate domestic
consumers from fluctuations in the cost of imported crude oil, the Committee
fixes the price of crude oil to refineries. This so-called pooled crude oil
price, which is currently set at Rs 1700 per ton (equivalent to about US$15
per barrel), represents the weighted average of the cost of imported and
indigenous crude oil. To arrive at uniform wholesale prices for the various
oil products, regional variations in marketing and transport costs are
equalized through a series of pool accounts. In addition, the marketing
companies levy excise duties, which are equivalent to the customs duties for
imported products and a 'product price adjustment', which represents a price
premium for some products, such as gasoline, or price discounts, such as, for
example, in the case of kerosine. The resulting ex-storage prices are the
prices at which the marketing companies sell oil products to retailers.
1.29     Following the drop of oil prices in international markets in 1986,
the Government decided not to realign prices immediately in order to (a)
continue to encourage conservation, (b) discourage investment in oil-intensive
technologies; and (c) take advantage of the opportunity to mobilize additional
resources from the widening difference between domestic and international oil
prices (Table 1.2). As a result, India's oil pricing policy has emerged as an
effective vehicle for generating public revenues. In 1986/87 the industry
contributed almost US$5 billion to the exchequers of the central and state
Governments in the form of excise and customs duties, royalty and cess on
crude and sales and corporate taxes. On the other hand, comparatively high
domestic prices for oil products and industrial feedstocks add considerably to
the cost of production of energy-intensive industries, such as the
petrochemical industry, and therefore reduce the competitiveness of Indian
industrial products in international markets. However, if prices for oil
products continue to remain low in international markets, the Government will
need to review the rationale for maintaining domestic prices of these products
above their border equivalents, in particular with respect to prices of
feedstocks, in order to ensure that intermediate inputs are priced at
reasonable levels to avoid distortions among the prices of various feedstocks.



- 11 -
1.30     In addition to resulting in comparatively high product prices, the
present oil product pricing policy leads also to other distortions. It is
characterized by: (i) the setting up of differential product prices for
different category of users--such as naphtha for fertilizers vs petrochemicals
production; (ii) the charging of virtually uniform product prices (at all ex
storage points) throughout India irrespective of the transport cost from the
supplying refineries through a system of freight equalization charges; and
(iii) -nomalies in the relationship between product prices and their close
substitutes for various uses--such as the price oi gas and naphtha for the
production -f fertilizer. These distortions could have serious implications
on the choice of feedstocks and industrial locations. A successful long-term
transformation of Indian industry towards competitiveness and an increase
orientation towards exports, a major objective of the Bank in its policy
dialogue with the Government, requires feedstock and energy product prices
also to be competitive with and at levels comparable to, international prices.
These issues are under active discussion with the Government in the context of
the Bank's energy and industry work.
Table 1.2: COMPARISON OF DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL PRICES FOR
SELECTED COMMERCIAL ENERGY RESOURCES
(US Dollars per Metric Ton)
Ratio of
Domestic to
Energy        Ex-Refinery    Domestic        International       International
Resource         Price        Price /a         Price /b              Price
Gasoline        163.80         743.58           161.87                4.59
Kerosene        172.19         172.24           207.05                0.83
Diesel Oil      164.17         256.55           172.64                1.49
Fuel Cil        111.05         212.96            75.48                2.82
Crude Oil         N.A.         133.53           111.77                1.19
Natural Gas /c   N.A.          154.11             N.A.                N.A.
Coal /d           N.A.          35.44            53.00                0.67 /e
/a  Ex-storage prices at primary pricing points (including Bombay), November
1988
/b Estimated c.i.f. prices, Bombay, January 1989
/c Price in U.S. Dollars per 1,000 cubic meters.
/d Estimated landed-price of coal (including freight from North Karanpura)
in Bombay.
/e If the difference in the calorific values of coal is taken into account,
this ratio would be 1.06.
G. Investment Strategy: Increased Reliance on Oil Product Imports
i.31     Over the past forty years, India has built-up a refinery industry
that is capable of meeting about 782 of the country's demand for oil products.
It required huge investments, which the Government justified with: (a)
India's need to have access to critically needed oil products; (b) its ability
to take advantage of declines of crude oil prices in international markets;



- 12 -
and (c) India's need to refine its indigenous production of crude oil. The
Government is currently reviewing this policy of self-sufficiency in refining.
Comparatively low prices of oil products in international markets, partly
because of major expansions of refinery capacities in the Middle East and
Singapore, and the huge investments required for expanding indigenous refining
capacity provide strong incentives for a greater reliance on imports of oil
products. The Government is currently considering importing about 15% of its
oil product requirements. As an initial step, this policy is sound. In the
years ahead, the Go,rernment will need to explore whether India can further
increase its share of oil product imports without affecting price levels in
international markets.
1.32     According to the Government's estimates, a policy of 852 self-suffi-
ciency in refining would require an additional refining capacity of about 15
million tons of crude oil throughput by 1995, and a further capacity expansion
of almost 20 million tons before the year 2000. At current prices, the cost
of this investment program would be about US$9 billion. Even if these capa-
city expansions are implemented on time, the Government projects that India
would still need to import 11.5 million tons of oil products a year by 1995
and 14.3 million tons by the year 2000.
1.33     While the Government has yet to decide on the degree of self-suffi-
ciency in refining it would like to maintain in the future, a decision has
been made to delay expansion of refinery capacity in favor of investment in
infrastructure facilities that would enhance India's access to international
product markets.
H. The Transport of Petroleum Products in India
1.34     Experience with various transport modes has shown that transportation
of crude oil and petroleum products through pipelines is generally more effi-
cient compared to rail and road transport. Pipelires offer several advan-
tages. They eliminate the return movement of empty tankers and wagons.
Delivery is faster and more reliable than with any other mode of transport.
Pipeline transport is more energy efficient, and lowers the risk of
environmental pollution as well as product loss during transit. In view of
the congested conditions on most arterial rail and road routes the Government
has adopted a transport policy which gives priority to the continued expansion
of the pipeline network, particularly in corridors where the transport
requirements for oil products exceed 1.25 million tons a year and where the
construction of pipelines is technically feasible. This policy, which is
economically sound, has led to a rapid expansion of the domestic network for
crude oil, natural gas and oil products and a gradual shift in the shipment of
oil products away from rail and road transport to pipelines.
1.35     The changes in the modes of transport for crude oil, gas and oil
products are illustrated in Table 1.3.



- 13 -
Table 1.3: PETROLEUM TRANSPORT BY MODE, 1982/83 TO 1987/88
(Million tons)
Transport
Mode              1982/83   1983/84   1984/85    1985/86   1986/87    1987/88
Crude Oil:
Coastal Shipping    7.3      11.9        14.6        12.4     13.6        12.4
Pipeline             N.A.     N.A.       33.7        33.5     34.9        37.6
Products:
Coastal Shipping    2.6       3.6         3.3         4.6      5.1         5.8
Rail                17.3     18.0        18.2        18.6     19.9        21.6
Road                 N.A.     N.A.        N.A.        N.A.     9.7         N.A.
Pipelines            6.1      7.1         7.7         8.6      9.5         9.4
Although there is a perceptible shift towards the use of pipelines for the
shipment of bulk oil products, only a small portion of India's total consump-
tion of these products moves actually through pipelines. Although pipeline
transport would be in many cases more economical than rail and road transport,
the heavy capital intensity of pipeline investments and the long time it takes
to build them have been major constraints to a faster expansion. Almost all
off-shore transport of crude is carried out by coastal shipping. Only a small
share of the off-shore crude production is moved through 275 kilometers of
off-shore pipelines. Refined products are moved by rail and tankers. Of
course, all the gas production is moved through pipelines.
1.36     Table 1.4 shows the growth of India's pipeline network for crude oil,
gas and oil products. About 402 of the network, which has more than doubled
since 1970, is devoted to the transport of oil products. About 48X of the
network is used to transport crude oil and the remaining 12? are designed for
the transport of gas. Since the marketing of crude, gas and products is in
the hands of the companies that produce or refine the various products, the
expansion of the pipeline network is part of the overall investment program of
these companies. The Indian Oil Corporation owns and operates about 55Z of
the pipeline network, ONGC about 242 and Oil India Ltd. (OIL) the remaining
21Z.



- 14 -
Table 1.4: GROWTH OF PETROLEUM PIPELINE NETWORK, 1971 TO 1987
(Kilometers)
Type of Pipeline        1971         1975        1981         1986         1987
Crude Oil              1,437           1,525        3,365      3,416       3,435
On-shore               1,437           1,525        3,140      3,141       3,159
Off-shore                  0               0          225        275         276
Petroleum Proeucts    1,789            2,917        2,111      2,713       2,749
Natural Gas              165             208          450        822         944
On-shore                 165             208          224        352         468
Off-shore                  0               0          226        470         476
LPG                        0               0            0          0          24
NGL                                        ( U          0          0          24
Total               3,391           3,840       5,926       6,951       7,176
The rapid growth of oil product demand will require continued large invest-
ments in pipelines for crude and oil products. Over the next five years IOC
plans to invest about US$1.3 billion for the construction of about 2,785
kilometers of crude and product pipelines.
I. Involvement of the Private Sector
1.37     While the shift towards greater reliance on imports of oil products
from international markets reduces the demand on public investment resources,
construction of the necessary infrastructure facilities requires still
substantial investments. The Government, which faces growing demands for
resources from other sectors, is increasingly looking towards a greater parti-
cipation of the private sector, particularly in oil exploration and the
refinery industry. In line with its established policy to expand indigenous
refinery capacity to meet about 90Z of domestic oil product needs, the
Government is finding it increasingly difficult to mobilize the necessary
investment resources. The Government has therefore decided to seek financial
support from companies in the private sector.
1.38     Current plans for the expansion of refinery capacity include a
refinery at Karnal, a refinery at Mangalore and an additional refinery in
Assam. Joint venture arrangements are being considered for the planned
refineries at Karnal and Mangalore. For the construction of the refinery at
Karnal, Tata Chemical Company and the Indian Oil Corporation have entered into
a joint venture, in which each of these companies will hold 26Z of the equity.
The remaining equity will be offered to non-resident Indians (NRIs). For the
construction of the refinery and petrochemical complex at Mangalore the Indian
Rayon Company has entered into a joint venture with the Hindustan Petroleum
Corporation. Again, each of these companies will hold 26Z of the equity,
while the remaining 482 will be offered to NRIs.



- 15 -
J. Management of the Sector
1.39     Although there is a gradually increasing share of private sector
involvement in the oil, gas and refinery sector, the management of these
sectors still rests predominantly in the hands of government agencies and a
few public sector enterprises. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas
provides the policy framework within which the various companies of these
sectors operate. It approves the programs and budgets of these companies and
monitors their performance. To carry out these tasks, the Ministry relies on
the recommendations of several committees, boards and task forces. The most
important body is the Oil Coordination Committee (OCC), which prepares
detailed recommendations on a wide range of activities of the oil
industry,--from the planning of facilities, the imports and exports of crude
oil and petroleum products, allocations of crude oil to refineries in line
with processing requirements, to the overall distribution of petroleum
products.
1.40     Domestic oil and gas production is in the hands of the Oil and
Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) and Oil India Ltd. (OIL). ONGC has the largest
involvement in the petroleum sector. At present the company accounts for
about 902 of domestic oil and gas exploration and production activities. OIL
accounts for the remaining 10Z. The Gas Authority of India Ltd. (GAIL) is in
charge of the transmission and distribution of natural gas. The Indian Oil
Corporation Ltd. (IOC), is responsible for imports of crude oil and oil
products. With a market share of 582, IOC is also India's largest refinery
and oil product distribution company. The remaining 422 are shared by six
companies. While the production, refining and distribution of oil and gas
products continue to be dominated by public sector companies, the Government
has in recent years encouraged direct investments and joint ventures with the
private sector. As a result of these efforts, a growing portion of off-shore
exploration, refining and specialized oil industry services are now carried
out by private sector companies.
1.41     In addition to the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural gas, several
other government agencies are involved in making decisions that affect the oil
and gas industry. The Planning Commission is responsible f r the screening of
investment plans, and the overall coordination of the allocation of expendi-
tures under the five-year plans. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for
the use of budget resources, approvals of requests involving foreign exchange
expenditures, the mobilization of foreign exchange resources and taxation.
The Ministry of Finance and the Planning Commission jointly review and approve
the budget and investment proposals of all public sector companies.
K. The Bank's Role in the Sector
1.42     Although the Bank's financial contribution to investments in the oil
and transport sectors remains comparatively small, its involvement in these
sectors has contributed significantly to the Government's success in reducing
its dependence on oil imports, improving the efficiency of the companies in
the oil and transport sectors, and attracting foreign risk capital to finance
an increasing share of its petroleum exploration efforts.
1.43     While the basic objectives of the Bank's involvement in the energy
sector have changed little over the years, the Bank's strategy in achieving
these objectives has evolved along with the aevelopment of the sector. The



- 16 -
Bank's primary objectives remain: (a) to assist the Government's efforts to
develop indigenous energy resources to reduce energy shortages and lower the
dependence on oil imports; (b) to improve the operational and managerial
efficiency of the enterprises involved in exploration, energy production.
transport and distribution; (c) to assist in efforts promoting the efficient
use of energy; and (d) to reduce the dependence of public sector enterprises
on public resources by improving internal resource mobilization through
efficient pricing policies and cost reduction as well as by attracting
additional external finance, including private risk capital.
1.44     In line with these objectives, the Bank's involvement has shifted
from assistance in the development of oil resources to support for the
Government's more recent efforts to bring its resources of natural gas on
stream. Almost all of the projects in the oil and gas sectors included
transport infrastructure facilities aimed at ensuring the efficient marketing
and utilization of crude oil and gas produced under these projects. To
improve the efficiency of operations in the oil, gas and refinery industries,
the Bank approved in April 1982 a lending operation in the refinery sector,
the Refinery rationalization Project (Ln. 2123-IN). The objective of this
loan was to assist several refinery companies in modernizing their refineries,
in particular in view of the rapidly growing demand for middle distillates.
1.45     Overall, the Bank's efforts have been quite successful.  India's
growing population and the need to accelerate economic growth in order to
achieve even minimal improvements in the standards of living will require
large increases in energy supplies, which will not be possible without a
drastic increase in investments. In view of the widening budget deficit and
the persistent scarcity of foreign exchange, the Government will need to find
ways to improve internal resource mobilization, in particular in the power and
coal subsectors, and attract foreign investment. In the years ahead, the
Bank's involvement in the energy sector will focus on assisting the Government
in:
(a)  implementing institut3'nal changes that would increase indigenous
energy supplies, improve the use of energy, mobilize additional
resources and raise the managerial and operational efficiency of
public sector enterprises in the energy sector; and
(b) mobilizing external finance in the form of co-financing, borrowing in
international capital markets and direct foreign investment.
1.46     The proposed project fits well into this; strategy.  The pipeline,
which will be financed under this project gives the Indian Oil Corporation
increased flexibility in supplying the domestic market with oil products. It
saves the cost of expanding domestic refining capacity, and permits IOC to
take advantage of favorable conditions in international oil product markets.
The other components contribute mainly to improving the overall efficiency of
IOC's refinery operations. However, IOC sought the Bank's assistance
primarily as part of its efforts to improve its organization and managerial
efficiency. Technical assistance during project implementation will
contribute to IOC's own efforts to become more efficient. Most importantly,
the association with the Bank through this project will ease IOC's access to
international capital markets. To enhance this aspect, the Government has
agreed that the loan be made directly to IOC, which would be the first timie an
Indian fully publicly owned company borrows directly from the Bank.



- 17 -
II. THE BORROWER
A. Introduction
2.1      Indian Refineries Limited was set up in 1958 and Indian Oil Company
Limited was established in 1959 to market petroleum products. The Indian Oil
Corporation (IOC) was formed subsequently by merging the refining company with
the marketing company. Several acquisitions followed soon after: three major
oil companies that were operating in India,--Shell, Standard Vacuum and
Caltex--were taken over in the 1970s; the Assam Oil Company in 1981; and 50Z
of the shares in Oil India Limited in 1981. New refineries were als: built
and the marketing network expanded. Today IOC operates six refineries with a
total refining capacity of about 21 tiillion tons per annum at: Koyali,
Mathura, Barauni, Haldia, Digboi and Guwahati. Crude oil and products are
moved through a 3,850 km pipeline network: from the port of Salaya to Koyali.
Mathura and Jalandhar in the northwest of India; and from the Assam oil fields
in the northeast to Barauni, Haldia, and Kanpur. IOC's extensive marketing
facilities include 15 LPG bottling plants, and 150 petroleum products storage
and distribution terminals serving 13,500 service and retail outlets and 75
aviation refueling st'tions. In addition, direct supplies are made for
defense purposes, as well as to the railway, power, fertilizer, steel and coal
sectors. In 1988, IOC's volume sale of 25 million tonnes constituted 58Z
share of the all-Indian market.
2.2      IOC is the largest commercial organization in India with a turnover
exceeding Rs 140 billion and employing over 32,000 people. In 1986, IOC was
ranked number 51 in the Fortune Magazine's list of the 500 largest industrial
corporations worldwide and IOC is also one of the most efficient companies in
India. During recent years, the capacity utilization of its refineries has
exceeded designed throughput and its pipeline throughput in FY88 averaged 96%
of design capacity, matching or exceeding standard utilization rates in
industrialized countries.
B. Organization and Management
2.3      IOC is a fully state-owned autonomous organization incorporated under
the Indian Companies Act of 1956 with the main object of refining, transport-
ing and marketing of petroleum products. The corporation has three Divisions:
Refineries and Pipelines Division; Marketing Division; and Assam Oil Division
(formed after taking over Assam Oil Company Ltd. in October 1981). IOC also
!          has a fully equipped Research and Development Center and a fully owned subsi-
diary, Indian Oil Blend4.ng Ltd. (IOB), for blending of lube oils and greases.
The organization is managed by a Board of Directors appointed by the
Government of India.  The Board includes the Chairman, a secretary, six
directors representing the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum and other GOI
institutions, and five full-time functional Diroctors, namely:  Director for
Refineries and Pipelines, who is also in charge 3f the Assam Oil Division;
Director Marketing; Director Finance; Director Personnel; and, Director R&D.
The Chairman of the Board is also the CEO for the company.  An organization
chart is given in Annex 2.1.



- 18 -
2.4      IOC's staff is well-trained and experienced in implementing major
pipeline and refinery projects, operations of pipelines and refineries, and in
the distribution and marketing of petroleum products. Key senior managers and
staff are familiar with internationally accepted practices in the petroleum
industry, partly due to IOC's past business relations with reputed
international companies, like Technip, UOP, ENI, Chevron, Shell and Bechtel.
Some further training would be required, however, to bring IOC up to par with
the latest technological advances in the industry.
C. Operating Performance
2.5      Except for the Guwahati and Digboi refineries, which are below opti-
mal size and the oldest of IOC's six refineries, the refinery operations are
efficient, with throughputs generally exceeding design capacity (except when
limited by lack of crude). Fuel consumption and losses are well within
established standards and refining costs per ton in line with those of
efficiently run refineries of similar configuration in industrialized
countries. IOC's pipeline and distribution operations are also efficient;
operating costs as well as energy consumption and transport losses are well
within international standards for comparable pipelines. IOC's financial
results have been very satisfactory, allowing IOC to fund the majority of past
investments out of internally generated funds. Some relevant indicators of
recent operating performance for IOC's refineries and pipelines are given in
Annex 2.2.
D. Accounts
2.6      The accounts are maintained on a commercial basis in accordance with
the requirements of the Companies Act of 1956. Each refinery and pipeline
unit constitutes a major cost center. The ex-refinery prices for each refin-
ery and transportation charges for crude oil and products for each pipeline
are set by GOI. The accounts for each major cost center (para. 2.7) are
prepared in line with corporate guidelines to maintain uniformity.
2.7      The accounting system is designed to meet the requirements for finan-
cial accounting, budgetary control, cost accounting as well as management
information. For this purpose, expenditures are classified according to type
and charged to cost centers, such as processing plants, utility centers, ser-
vice departments, administration, overheads etc. Key performance data are
compiled monthly and financial accounts quarterly for each major cost center
to provide adequate information for IOC's management. Annual accounts are
routinely completed, audited and published within six months of the end of
IOC's fiscal year. On the whole, IOC's MIS and accounting procedures meet or
surpass acceptable standards.
2.8      IOB's accounts are published separately along with those of IOC; this
is a statutory requirement. Only the nominal value of IOB's shares appears as
an investment in IOC's accounts and ro consolidation of the IOC/IOB accounts
is undertaken. As of March 1988, IOB's equity was Rs 34.0 million, of which
Rs 4.0 million was paid-up share capital. The value of IOB is therefore
understated in IOC's books, but the amounts involv3d are minor compared with
IOC's total assets.



- 19 -
2.9      During appraisal, IOC agreed to open a Special Account for the proj-
ect, most likely with the State Bank of India. This account, including SOEs
if any, will be audited annually by IOC's exteraal auditors. The quarterly
project progress reports will include extracts of transactions booked in the
Special Account. The amount of initial deposit on the Special Account will be
US$35 million; reimbursement will be made quarterly, or whenever the account
is drawn down to below 502 of the initial deposit, after IOC's fully
documented application for replenishment (para. 3.18).
E. Audit
2.10     IOC's annual accounts are audited by independent chartered account-
ants appointed by GOI on the advice of the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India to ensure that the accounts provide a true and fair view of IOC's
affairs and that they are in line with the requirements of the Companies Act
of 1956. Auditors are appointed for periods of three years, after which they
are changed. IOC's operations are also audited by the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India. This audit is a performance audit to ensure that the
procedures, decisions taken and commitments made by IOC are in compliance with
government regulations and are in the best interest of the Company as well as
verifying the quality of the accounts. The observations of Government
Auditors are placed before the Government of India for appropriate action and
published in the Annual Report, which is placed before the Parliament. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that IOC's audited accounts, including
the special account, will be made available to the Bank within six months of
the end of IOC's financial year.
2.11     IOC's operations are also audited by internal auditors on a continu-
ous basis throughout the year. A General Manager for internal audit is
attached to the Chairman's office. Further, an Internal Audit Department,
with about 125 employees headed by an Executive Director, reports directly to
Director Finance and observations are reported to the Board of Directors.
Physical inventories are undertaken by IOC's Production and Materials
Departments and are also checked in a revolving manner by independent physical
verification teams. The Internal Audit Department and the independent
auditors also verify inventories at rxndom.  These audit procedures are
satisfactory.
F. Insurance Practices
2.12     IOC has taken insurance coverage against the following risks:  loss
or damage of equipment and material in transit; erection and storage damages
for material and equipment used in major projects; fire and explosion in
refineries and pipelines; transit damages and losses for crude, products,
chemicals, spares, consumables, etc.; and, third-party personal injury/death
and property damages. IOC assets are insured at replacement cost. These
insurance practices are adequate and in line with the practices of the
industry. During negotiations assurances were obtained that IOC will continue
to maintain insurance against risks and in amounts that are consistent with
industry practice.



- 20 -
G. Remuneration and Pricing System
2.13     The Government has established a refinery pricing system that
provides a 122 after-tax re.urn on capital employed (the sum of net fixed
assets in operation and normal working capital) to the extent that these are
funded by equity; interest on debt to finance such capital employ-.d is also
covered by retention prices. This pricing system is based on standard norms
for crude throughput, product patterns, fuel and loss and other operating
costs; it provides for incentives in the form of higher returns than the basic
12Z for operating performances exceeding established norms. A more detailed
description of the pricing system and an example of the calculation of
refinery remunerations are given in Annex 2.3.
2.14     IOC's refineries generally process more crude oil than required oy
the GOI-established standards. The actual yield patterns are also superior to
the standard norms, thus providing the refineries higher returns than the
standard 12Z. To ensure continued efficient operations, IOC introduced a
produ^tivity linked bonus payment scheme under which employees can earn addi-
tional remunerations of up to about 12Z of base wages. These bonus earnings
are linked to crude throughput and throughput of major secondary processing
units, reduction in fuel consumption and loss levels and reduction in over-
time. IOC's employees have been able to earn bonuses of around 11Z of base
wages by productivity improvements in these areas. As a result, IOC's refin-
eries, during recent years, earned incentives for improvements in crude
throughput and yield pattern and for reductions in fuel consumption and loss
levels as compared with GOI's standards for these refineries. Based on IOC's
performance, the refinery pricing system combined with the productivity-rela-
ted bonuses to staff appear to provide adequate incentives for efficient oper-
ations.
H. Investment Progra
2.15     Since the oil crisis in the early 1970s, IOC has made investments to
rehabilitate its refineries to increase throughput, improve efficiency and
increase the output of high value products. The most clearly justified
investments to rehabilitate IOC's existing refineries have already been under-
taken and the remaining scope for further increase in throughput in these
refineries is limited. To satisfy projected growth in demand for refined
products in a cost-efficient manner, IOC's longer-term strategy therefore is
to: (i) increase the import of products; (ii) participate in establishing new
refineries as well as improve the efficiency of existing refineries;
(iii) expand the capacity of existing refineries when justified; and finally,
(iv) expand pipeline and distribution systems to handle the larger volumes of
crude oil and products. IOC's FY90/94 investment program is designed to fit
into this longer-term strategy.
2.16     IOC's FY90-94 investment program, including physical and price con-
tingencies, amounts to about Rs 91.7 billion (US$6.3 billion equivalent),
subject to GOI approval of all planned projects. In addition to the proposed



- 21 -
project (about US$1.0 billion), IOC plans to expand the Gujarat, Koyali and
Mathura refineries and add conversion facilities for heavy oil processing
(about US$1.4 billion), participate in a new refinery at Karnal (total cost
about US$1.5 billion), and expand its pipeline and distribution systems, as
well as improve the efficiency of existing refineries (about US$2.4 billion).
This investment program is ambitious compared with past undertakings and will
require IOC to seek external funding, in addition to the proposed Bank loan,
in the order of about US$2.7 billion equivalent; the difference (about US$3.2
billion) would be covered by IOC's internal cash generation. Some projects in
IOC's FY90-94 investment program may be delayed, however, if adequate funding
is not available.
2.17     In recent years, IOC has funded about 802 of its capital expenditures
out of internally generated funds. The extraordinary funding needs for IOC's
F,90-94 investment program will, however, require new financing policies for
IOC. The feasibility of suppliers' credits, commercial bank loans, bond
issues, etc. were studied and GOI/IOC agreed to make more use of such external
funding sources. IOC is also likely to reactivate its public deposit scheme,
which was suspended in 1986. This scheme could proviae funds amounting to
about US$400 million (a third of IOC's eyaity) according to current
regulations.
2.18     During appraisal, the Bank was given an opportunity to review IOC's
FY90-94 investment plan and tentative funding plan. To ensure that IOC's
managerial and financial resources will not become overcommitted, the Bank
will be given an opportunity to review any major changes to these plans and to
exchange views with IOC before such changes are implemented. Such reviews
would also enable the Bank to assist IOC to finance investments which the Bank
and IOC agree are economically and financially justified. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Bank will be given an
opportunity to review annually any major change to IOC's FY90-94 investment
plan and to exchange views with IOC before the changes are implemented. Any
additional investment exceeding the equivalent of US$50 million would in any
given year be considered a major change.



- 22 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background and Objectives
3.1      Petroleum consumption in India was about 43 million metric tons per
annum (MMTPA) in 1986/87 and is projected to double by the year 2000.
Consumption in the northwest of India is growing considerably faster than in
the rest of the country; its share of the total consumption is expected to
increase from a current 30? to 362. Consistent with the national strategy
outlined in paras 1.30-1.32, IOC, the principal supplier and marketer of
petroleum products in the region, plans to meet this growing demand by a
combination of increased product imports and increased refinery capacity (in
turn requiring increased imports of crude oil). Annex 5.1 summarizes IOC's
plans for meeting the demand for major products in the northwest; further
details are provided in paras 5.2-5.4. These plans will require a new
petroleum products pipeline and augmentation of the crude oil supply system
for the existing and new refineries. (See map IBRD 21079.) Petroleum
products destined for the northwest region are currently imported at the
Kandla port and distributed to retailers by rail and road. However, the
existing transportation system--road and rail--will not be able to cope with
the projected volumes. A pipeline has been determined to be the least-cost
and most economic means for transporting the petroleum products from Kandla to
distribution points supplying the northwest region. The existing crude oil
supply system is limited to about 10.2 MMTPA, the maximum capacity based on
present tanker size and traffic handled by the offshore mooring and off-
loading facility (SBM) at Salaya. A second SBM is required to accommodate the
projected increased crude oil throughput for the existing Koyali and Mathura
refineries, which are being expanded. A more extensive augmentation of the
crude oil supply system will be required before the Karnal refinery goes on-
stream.
3.2      The primary objective of the project is to support the govermnent and
IOC in providing the necessary operational flexibility and in improving the
overall efficiency of the petroleum product supply sector by: (i) reducing
the cost of domestic transport of petroleum products; (ii) facilitating import
of petroleum products, thus providing IOC with the means to respond quickly to
shifts in product demand patterns and foregoing the need for more costly and
high-risk investments that would be required to change refinery yield
patterns; (iii) improving the operating efficiency of IOC's refineries; and
(iv) upgrading practices used in the operations and maintenance of IOC pipe-
line network and distribution facilities. Secondary objectives are: techno-
logy transfer in pipeline operations, corrosion control, computerizing refin-
ery operations, process optimization and removal of lead from motor-gasoline.
B. Project Description
3.3      The project includes the following components:
(a) 1,454 km product pipeline from the Port of Kandla to Bhatinda: The
initial pipeline capacity will be 5.0 MMTPA in the Kandla-Karnal
section (22" diameter) and 1.5 MMTPA in the Karnal-Bhatinda
(14" diameter) section. There are provisions for expanding the capa-
city of the Kandla-Karnal section to 6.0 MMTPA (through mechanical
modification or the application of chemical drag reducers) and the
Karnal-Bhatinda section to 2.5 MMTPA (throagh additional pumping
capacity).



- 23 -
(b) A Second Single Buoy Mooring System (SBM):l/ The existing offshore
terminal in the Gulf of Kutch presently handles about 10 MMTPA of
Bombay High and imported crudes which is beyond the design capacity
of the SBM. The proposed second SBM is required to supply the addi-
tional crude to be processed. at the Koyali and Mathura refineries.
(c) Minimizing Lead Content in Motor Gasoline from Eastern Sector Refin-
eries: This component provides for the installation of catalytic
reforming units with associated facilities at the Barauni and Digboi
refineries. IOC will then be able to reduce the lead content in the
motor gasoline produced at these refineries from the current level of
0.56 to 0.15 grams per liter by September 1992 as mandated by the
Department of the Environment. Reformate produced by catalytic
reforming of naphtha and gasoline from processes similar to fluid
catalytic cracking are of sufficiently high octane number so that
when blended with the other gasoline stock in the refinery, with
minimal lead addition, a gasoline with the required octane number is
produced. After installation of these two reformers, all IOC
refineries will be able to meet the lead content mandate except the
Guwahati refinery, which has too small a capacity for economic
reforming. Its gasoline output will be blended into gasoline from
the Bongaigoan refineries to meet the required octane number
specification.
(d) Distributed Digital Control System (DDCS) for IOC's Refineries: This
project component is designed to modernize instrumentation and
enhance process control optimization capabilities of Guwahati,
Barauni, Gujarat, Haldia, and Mathura refineries by installation of
Distributed Digital Control Systems (DDCS). Presently, except for a
few process units, instrumentation is pneumatic, and response to
system changes is slower than with the more modern electronic DDCS.
The project component will include provision for the required micro-
processor and supporting computer facilities. Installation of DDCS
will facilitate optimization of refinery operations and yield
improvements, reduction in energy consumption, enhance safety, reduce
time needed to remedy process changes reported by monitoring
instruments or to change operating conditions, quicker plant shutdown
and start-up, and thereby increase on-stream time. The scope of work
for each refinery, including hardware, will be defined by
consultants to be engaged under the project.
(e) Captive Power Plant at the Digboi Refinery: Two gas turbine power
generators, each generating 15 MW of power, will provide a stable
source of electricity to the refinery. With the rapid growth in
demand for electricity from the national grid, power interruptions
and dips have become more frequent resulting in disruption of
operations. The captive power plant will supply electricity to
critical refinery equipment and will use hydrocarbon gas from
refinery process units as fuel.
1/ An SBM is a large buoy used to moor, load and unload tankers that could
not otherwise anchor in coastal waters. In addition to the buoy, the
system comprises floating hoses, a manifold (PLEM), submarine pipelines
and onshore receiving facilities.



- 24 -
(f) Yield Optimization and Eneray Conservation: Under the Technical
Assistance and Training Component (para 3.3, h), project consultants
will carry-out studies to identify equipment modifications and
configuration changes needed to optimize refinery yields and conserve
energy at Guwahati, Barauni, Koyali, Mathura and Haldia refineries.
The yield optimization and energy conservation component vill provide
equipment and services necessary to implement recommendations that
will emerge from the yield optimization and energy conservation
study.
(g) Haldia Lube Block, This component deals with the expansion of the
Haldia Refinery lubricating oil base stock facility by 60,000 metric
tons per annum. Along with the expansion of the lubricating oil
complex, a sulphur plant will be installed to recover the sulphur
from sulphur containing gas streams, which would otherwise be
discharged to the atmosphere and ultimately form sulphuric and
sulphurous acids with detrimental effects on the environment.
(h) Technical Assistance and TraininR: The principal consulting services
included under this project component are: (i) studies to design
energy conservation and yield optimization programs for Guwahati,
Barauni, Koyali, Mathura and Haldia refineries; (ii) a pipeline
corrosion survey and assistance in improving operations, maintenance
and inspection of IOC's pipeline network; (iii) studies to identify
and design schemes for modernization of instrumentation at Guwahati,
Barauni, Haldia and Mathura refineries by installing distributed
digital control systems; and (iv) design of a stafL training program,
including the establishment of a Corporate Management Training Insti-
tute and development of training curricula for the center, identifi-
cation and provision of training aids for the existing training cen-
ters and the identification of training requirements of, and appro-
priate training opportunities for, senior level IOC staff in the oil
industry abroad. Approximately 300 man-months (mm) of expatriate
consulting service are estimated to be required for technical assis-
tance and studies and 50 mm for training. Also included in this
project component are process simulators, training aids, computer
hardware and software and special equipment and instruments needed
for carrying out the pipeline corrosion surveys and tests.
C. Status of Project Preparation
3.4      IOC has completed a detailed feasibility study establishing that a
pipeline from Kandli to Bhatinda is the least-cost and most economic transport
mode for petroleum products supplied to the northwest region. The study has
determined the optimum pipeline size, routing and other essential design para-
meters. Bank staff have reviewed the IOC study and are in agreement with the
conclusions. IOC will commence detailed project design and engineering on
completion of financing arrangements and their approval by the government.
Similarly, IOC has prepared a detailed project report for the second offshore
terminal at Salaya based on the installation of a second SBM and is in a posi-
tion to begin detailed design and engineering. Most preliminary bid packages
were submitted to the Bank for review at the time of project appraisal.
3.5      For the refinery components, IOC has prepared a feasibility study and
established the design basis for the catalytic reformers to be installed at
the Digboi and Barauni refineries. IOC needs Government approval and finan-
cing to proceed with implementation of this component. IOC's preliminary



- 25 -
studies have shown that conversion of instrumentation in the refineries and
off-site facilities to Distributed Digital Control Systems is justified by the
increased refinery throughput and yield improvements. Consultants to be
financed under the proposed Bank loan will, when appointed, begin an in-depth
study of the application of the digital control system to each of IOC's -efin-
eries except Digboi, which will not be converted because of its age and small
size.
D. Capital Cost Estimate
3.6       The estimated total project cost including taxes, duties (US$185
million equivalent) and contingencies is US$944 million of which US$368
million (39Z) is expected to be for foreign exchange expenditures. The
proposed US$340 million Bank loan represents 34Z of the total financing
required (including interest during construction). The detailed project cost
estimated in Indian rupees and US dollars appears in Annex 3.1 and is
summarized in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
In Rupees MIllion            In US$ mIllion
Local    F .E.   Totsl     Local    F.E.    Total
Kandla-Bhatinda P/L    3,925   2,617   6,542         269     179     448
Second SBM                77      103     180          S       7      12
Barauni Cat. Reformer    560      126     676        3s        9      47
Digbol Cat. Reformer     216      46      260         1s       3      18
Dist. Digital Control
system.                887      617   1,404         61      35      96
Digboi Captive Power
Plant (Gas Turbine)     30      240     270          2      16      18
Energy Conservation A
Yield Opt.             300      200     500         20      14      84
Mald!a Lube Block        156      83      239         10       6      16
Sulphur Plant             86       6       90          6       -       6
Techn. Assist. A
Training               100      100     200          7       7      14
Base cost          6,326   4,036  10,360        433     276      709
Contingencies:
Physical /a          632     404   1,036         43      28       71
Price lb           1.454     929   2.383        100      64      184
Total Project Cost/c  8,411   6,368  13,779       576     ge8     944
IDC: Bank Loan          -      e76     876          -      46      46
Others           100     176     275          7       12      19
Total Financing
Required         8.611   6,218  14.729        583     426   1.009
/ 10X of base cost.
21X of base cost and physical contingency.
Includes Rs 2,700 million (US3186.0 million) taxes and duties; estimated cost
not of taxes and duties = Rs 11,080 million (USS769 million).



- 26 -
3.7      The cost estimates are based on average FY89 prices with the major
base costs estimated by IOC from informal price quotations, costs incurred on
previous and ongoing projects suitably updated, and other in-house cost data.
Consulting services financed by the Bank are estimated to total 350 man-months
at an average cost of US$20,000 per man-month and are broken down as follows:
refinery studies (75), pipeline surveys and tests (100), distributed digital
control systems (125) and training (50).  A sum of US$0.5 million is included
for training abroad.  Process simulators, training aids, computer hardware and
software and special equipment and instruments required for technical assis-
tance and training are estimated to cost US$6.5 million. A physical contin-
gency of 102 was applied to the base cost; which was considered to be appro-
priate given the state of project preparation and preliminary engineering
carried out for the project components. The price contingency on foreign
exchange is calculated according to the Bankwide price contingency rates of
5.32 for FY89/90 and 4.12 per annum thereafter, and domestic price contin-
gencies are based on annual rates of 8? in 1989/90 and 72 in the years
thereafter.
E. Project Financing
3.8      The following financing plan has been prepared for the project,
including US$65 million equivalent of capitalized IDC:
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Local       Foreign        Total      Percent
IBRD Loan                      47          293            340           34
Co-financing e.g.
suppliers' credit             -           75             75            7
IOC                           536           58            594           59
Total                    583          426          1,009         100
3.9      In addition to IDC, IOC is expected to finance most local project
costs from internally generated funds and the Bank would only finance local
costs included in the turnkey contracts for the pipeline and the DDCSs. The
line pipe, estimated to cost about US$75 million, could be financed by
suppliers' credit or bilateral loans, considering the keen competition in the
steel industry worldwide. During appraisal, GOI/IOC agreed that external co-
financing for the line pipe component for about US$75 million could be
arranged. During negotiations assurances were obtained that cofinancing of
US$75.0 million equivalent will be arranged for the financing of the Kandla-
Bhatinda line pipe. The proposed Bank loan would finance the balance of the
foreign exchange requirements of US$293 million and US$47 million equivalent
of eligible local costs, which would represent 342 of the total financing
required. The proposed loan includes also a provision for up to US$20 million
for retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after December 1, 1988.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. For
loan conditions see para. 4.12.



- 27 -
3.10     Proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be allocated as follows:
Table 3.3: ALLOCATION OF THE LOAN
Amount Allocated
(USS million       Z of Expenditures
Category                      equivalent)           to be financed
1.   Equipment, materials,            295.0
engineering and installation
(a) directly imported                             100Z of foreign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manufactured                          100? of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory)
(c) imported and procured
locally                                       65Z
(d) works                                         70X
2.  Consultant services                15.0            100? of foreign or local
and training                                      expenditures
3.   Unallocated                       30.0
Total                            340.0
F. Project Implementation
3.11     IOC has wide experience in carrying out various kinds of petroleum
projects and will undertake full responsibility for implementing this project.
The Kandla-Bhatinda petroleum product pipeline and the second SBM system will
be implemented by IOC's pipeline division, assisted during the engineering and
construction stages by expatriate consultants to supplement expertise not
available in IOC or in India. Material and equipment inspection will be
assigned to a firm specializing in these services. The iine pipe will be
procured separately.   The Kandla-Karnal section of the product pipeline as
well as the SBM with its offshore pipeline will be supplied and installed
under separate turnkey contracts. Separate procurement packages suitable for
local competitive bidding will be prepared for the Karnal-Bhatinda section of
the products pipeline. Implementation of the refinery project components are
the responsibility of IOC's refinery division whose implementation procedures
and methods will essentially be the same as those of the pipeline division.
Engineers India Ltd. (EIL), the major engineering firm in India's petroleum
sector, will provide the necessary assistance for detailed design and backup
during implementation of the two catalytic reformers which will be supplied
and installed under a turnkey contract. Off-site facilities not readily
incorporated wit)in the turnkey contract will be contracted locally. The



- 28 -
Distributed Digital Control System conversions will be contracted on a supply-
and-install basis with the assistance of the expatriate consultant retained
for the study, engineering and project preparation activities.
3.12     Bank staff have reviewed thoroughly IOC's implementation plans and
capabilities and are satisfied that project implementation will be carried out
satisfactorily. Maximum use of turnkey contracting will ease the supervision
load and should help maintain a tight implementation schedule. Implementation
schedules appearing in Annex 3.2 show both the pipeline and SBM projects com-
pleted within 33 and 30 months respectively of approval to proceed. The cata-
lytic reformers are scheduled to be completed within 30 months of award of
contracts and the DDCS conversions over a three-year period. The
implementation schedules are considered realistic, barring unforeseen delays
that may be caused by factors such as problems that could arise during
selection of contractors. There is, however, no basis to extend
implementation schedules to accommodate unpredictable factors. Under normal
circumstances, the project components can be implemented within the time
schedules given.
G. Procurement
3.13     Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 3.4
below.



- 29 -
Table 3.4: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
ICB          LCB         Other /a    Total
Kandla-Bhatinda P/L        325           8           263           596
(177)         (-)           (1)        (178)
Second SBM                  14           2             -            16
(12)         (-)           (-)         (12)
Reformers
Barauni Reformer          48           -            13           61
(36)          -            (2)         (38)
Digboi Reformer           20           -             4           24
(16)         -             (2)         (18)
Captive Power Plant         22           -              3           25
(10)         _             (1)         (11)
Distributed Digital
Control System           128           -             -          128
(45)         -              -          (45)
Energy ConservationL
and Yield Optimiza-
tion Program              38           -             8           46
(15)          -            (2)         S17)
Haldia Refinery Lube
Oil Block                 18           -             4           22
(8)         -             (2)         (10)
Sulphur Plant at
Haldia Refinery            7           -             1            8
(1)         _             (-)          (1)
Technical Assistance
and Training               -           -            18           18
-          -            (10)       210)
Total                620           10           314          944
(320)         (            (20)        (340)
/a Borrower's own procurement procedures; limited international bidding; and
consulting services under the Bank guidelines.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the prospective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.



- 30 -
3.14     The Bank's Precurement Guidelines will apply to:
(a) the Kandla-Karnal section of the products pipeline and the offshore
portion of the SBM installation under turnkey contracts in accordance
with international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures open to all
prequalified contractors;
(b) the equipment, materials and services required for the Barauni and
Digboi catalytic reformers, captive power plant, the distributed
digital control systems, and the Haldia lube block (including the
sulphur plant) under ICB procedures;
(c) the small value equipment and materials required for the project, and
which are either needed in emergencies or available only from a
limited number of sources, under limited international bidding (LIB)
procedures or local or international shopping procedures as
appropriate; and
(d) studies and technical services under the Bank's Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants.
3.15     IOC will use its own procurement procedures for the supply of line
pipe estimated to cost about US$75 million, for which it will request
financing terms from the bidders, and for the small diameter Karnal-Bhatinda
section of the products pipeline which it plans to finance from its internally
generated funds. Works of small value and not likely to attract foreign
bidders (housing, offices, preliminary works, etc.) will be procured through
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Bank staff have reviewed IOC's
procurement procedures and found them satisfactory.
3.16     The Bank's standard domestic preference provisions will apply for the
evaluation and comparison of bids submitt3d under ICB procedures. All procure-
ment documents relating to bids valued over US$1.0 million will be subject to
Bank prior review; those under this value will be submitted for post-award
review.2/   Goods and services costing less than $100,000 or between
US$100,000 and US$200,000 may be purchased directly by IOC using either
international and local shopping or limited international bidding procedures,
respectively, limited to an aggregate of US$20.0 million. It is proposed that
retroactive financing in the amount of US$20 million for expenditures incurred
after project appraisal in October 1988 be allowed to cover payments expected
to be made by IOC for services and equipment procured in accotdance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines before the proposed loan is signed.
2/  It is estimated that the project procurement requirements will be
covered by about 20 procurement documents; of these about ten are
estimated to have a value in excess of US$1.0 million each and a total
value of US$415 million. The Bank has already reviewed and cleared the
largest of these bidding documents, for the Kandla-Bhatinda pipeline.



- 31 -
H. Disbursements
3.17     The Bank loan is projected to be disbursed as shown in Annex 3.3 and
summarized in Table 3.5 appearing below. The rate of disbursement is based on
the loan becoming effective by mid 1989 and that it will be disbursed over a
period of five years. This is not fully in conformity with the Banks June
1988 standard seven-year disbursement profile for energy projects in India.
However a shorter project duration is justified taking into account the
completion times recorded for similar IOC projects and the fact thaL the use
of turnkey single responsibility contracts for major project components will
facilitate implementation. Projected disbursements are based on the initial
deposit of US$35 million into the special account being made in FY90 and
signing of contracts for the pipeline, SBM and DDCS components in FY91.
There'xre, substantial disbursements are projected over the early years.
Table 3.5: DISBURSEMENT OF THE BANK LOAN
(US$ Million)
BANK FY            FY90          FY91         FY92        FY93         FY94
Annual                 35         110          130          50           15
Cumulative             35         145          275         325          340
3.18     To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account will be opened with an
initial deposit in US$35 million equivalent, the estimated average expendi-
tures for a five-month period. The account will be opened in US dollars in a
bank acceptable to the Bank. Applications for replenishment of the Special
Accouint will be submitted quarterly or whenever the Special Account is drawn
down to 502 of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. Disbursements will
be made against priced contracts for the goods, services and works procured
under the Bank loan, and SOEs--if any. Interim certification of works
completed and costed at unit rates in the contracts will be done by IOC's
construction supervision team and certified by IOC. Disbursements for train-
ing overseas will be made against the actual costs of travel, subsistence and
tuition or training fees. Disbursements against statements of expenditure
will be made for the training component and for goods or services costing less
than US$300,000. Documents supporting the expenditure statements will be
retained by IOC and made available for review by Bank supervision missions.
During negotiations, instructions for the operation of the Special Account
will be provided to IOC and agreement will be sought that IOC will open an
account in a bank satisfactory to the Bank.
I. Ecology and Safety
3.19     As described more fully in Annex 3.4, IOC complies with or exceeds
the standards of India's environmental protection regulations which are as
stringent as those in the developed countries. The net environmental effect



- 32 -
associated with the refinery project components will be benign and in propor-
tion to the reduced atmospheric lead content in urban areas when the lower
levels of lead in motor gasoline are achieved. Refinery emissions are
currently measured a minimum of four times a day as well as after process
upsets. Supervision missions will compare emission measurements with Bank and
WHO standards. Due consideration to environment and energy conservation is
being taken in the design of the pipeline and SBM components. Under normal
circumstances, any environmental impact will be reversible and should be
limited in duration to the construction period. Compared to alternative modes
of transport, the pipeline has clear advantages, namely less spillage, less
evaporation and air pollution and less energy consumption.
3.20     Some temporary disturbances of short duration will occur during pipe-
line construction while clearing the right-of-way and preparing the pipeline
ditch. However, once the pipeline has been installed, the trench will be
covered and the right-of-way restored to its original condition for the growth
of grass, crops and other vegetation except large trees. In forested areas,
which are avoided to the extent practical, cutting of trees will be restricted
to the minimum possible by adjusting the pipeline's alignment. During opera-
tions, some small leakages can be expected at the pumping stations. Oily
water separators will be installed at these locations to reduce the oil con-
tent to permissible levels before any effluent is discharged from the sta-
tions. The SBM will also cause some temporary disturbances during construc-
tion of the submarine pipeline and fasten4ng of the mooring unit to the sea
floor, but the effect will be temporary and of short duration. Judging from
11 years experience with the existing SBM, oil spills from the SBM operation
should not cause a pollution problem. Two tugs which assist the crude oil
off-loading operation are equ ?ped with chemical dispersants and manned by
crews trained to apply the chemicals. Overall control of oil spill clean-up
rests with the Kandla Port Trust. The Trust and the Indian Coast Guard patrol
the area for oil spills and other pollution by vessels calling at the port.
3.21     IJC's petroleum facilities are designed and constructed in compliance
with the strictest international and Indian safety standards, and the organi-
zation is fully prepared to respond to an accident or emergency condition. At
all installations, an accident or emergency condition will activate a disaster
control plan which will set in motion the particular contingency actions
required to deal with the specific emergency which has taken place. For the
products pipeline, operating variables will be continuously monitored by the
supervising control system which will immediately isolate and limit the emer-
gency condition to the smallest practical area.  During negotiations,
assurances will be sought that IOC will continue to take adequate precautions
in line with industry practices to protect its workers and the environment
during implementation of the project.
J. Project Reporting Requirements
3.22     IOC will submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports for the proj-
ect components in accordance with the contents and format outlined in Annex
3.5. Within six months after the closing date of the Bank loan, IOC will
prepare and submit to the Bank a project completion report. The report will
undertake a retrospective review and analysis of the major activities of the
project, its aims and accomplishments and the performance of the participants
including the Bank. An outline and instruction for preparing the c'impletion
report was provided to IOC during negotiations.



- 33 -
K. Project Risks
3.23     Cost overruns and delays in project completion constitute the major
project risks. As detailed in para. 5.18, the economic impact of the project
is relatively insensitive to cost overruns: a 102 cost overrun would have the
project's overall economic rate of return reduce from 26Z to 232. The impact
of the project is more sensitive to implementation delays but the economic
rationale remains robust to the likely range of risk: a two year delay in
completing all components would reduce the overall rate of return to 21%.
3.24     Errors in demand projections are another source of risk that may
affect the economic rate of return of the Kand'.a-Bhatinda Pipeline, which is
intended for products. If the rate of growth in demand is 252 less than
expected, the rate of return on this component would fall from 222 to 182,
which is still satisfactory.
3.25     A further risk is that the margins between products and crude oil
might increase to a level which could make import of crude oil and domestic
refining clearly more economic than importing products. Even under such a
scenario, the investment risk is minimal as the pipeline could be readily
converted to transport of crude oil.
3.26     Environmental risks during construction and operation are considered
minimal given the strict enforcement of environmental -rotection standards by
the Government and IOC's record of compliance with these standards. They are
c-rtainly less than the risks which would pertain in the absence of the
project. For example, without the Kandla-Bhatinda pipeline, products would be
transported by rail, with a higher probability of accidents and spillage.
Similarly, a mishap at the crude oil receiving facility at Salaya is more
likely in the absence of the project, because excessive utilization and occu-
pancy of the existing SBM would preclude proper maintenance.



- 34 -
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
4.1      IOC's main financial objectives are:  to ensure an adequate return on
capital employed and to maintain a reasonable dividend to GOI, its share-
holder; to ensure maximum economy in expenditures; and to generate sufficient
internal resources to fund a substantial portion of capital expenditures.
Over the past decade, IOC has been remarkably successful in achieving these
objectives; dividends were steadily increased from 62 of paid-up capital to
the current 18Z, and IOC has funded about 80X of capital expenditures out of
inteLaal sources. This development has been made possible by an impressive
growth over the same period; sales increased by a yearly average of 172, fixed
assets by 15X and profit-after-tax by 22Z. IOC's FY88 turnover of Rs 144
billion was the highest of any commercial company in India. FY88 profit-
after-tax of Rs 4.6 billion also makes IOC one of India's most profitable
companies. In FY88, IOC contributed Rs 26 billion to the central exchequer in
income tax and duties alone; GOI benefited further from dividends, commodity
taxes and excise duties.
4.2      To keep up with projected growth in demand for refined products, IOC
plans to grow even faster in the five years to come. The funding of IOC's
ambitious FY90-94 investment program will, according to financial projections
given in this chapter, require more use of external funding sources than in
the past. GOI has agreed to IOC increasing its funding from external sources
and IOC's borrowing directly from the Bank is in line with this policy
directive. Once the investment program has been implemented, IOC's internal
cash generation will increase substantially permitting the repayment of long-
term debt as well as increased dividends to GOI.
B. Pricing System
4.3      The GOI-approved remuneration and pricing system (para. 2.13 and
Annex 2.3) is the main determinant of IOC's financial performance. This
system has protected IOC from the volatility of products and crude prices in
international markets during recent years and has permitted IOC to fund its
capital outlays largely out of internally generated funds as well as maintain
a reasonable dividend. The remuneration and pricing system also provides IOC
with adequate incentives for efficiency improvements; IOC's refinery, pipeline
and distribution operations compare favorably with those of efficiently run
companies outside India.
4.4      In the short run, however, this remuneration system may have draw-
backs that need some further comment. The 'capital employed," on which IOC is
entitled to a return and reimbursement of interes- paid, consists of net fixed
assets in operation plus 'normative' working capital (45 days of crude
throughput for refineries processing imported crude and 35 days for other
refineries). Capital works in progress are not entitled to a return until put
into operation. This means that during periods in which IOC's depreciation of



- 35 -
fixed assets (averaging 102 p.a) about equals the value of assets put into
operation, IOC's net profits are likely to stagnate; this is expected to occur
in FY89-91. On the other hand, when substantial new fixed assets are put into
operation, IOC's net profits rises sharply; this is forecast to occur from
1992.
4.5      The pricing and remuneration system is applied to the operation of
each refinery and major pipeline unit as a whole. The result is that each
discrete investment will produce an after-tax return of 122 plus whatever
incentives, recognized under the system for efficiency improvements, are
attributable to the investment; the total return would be about 152 based on
IOC'S past experience. Under these circumstances, it is not very meaningful
to calculate a financial rate of return to IOC on specific investments; the
total return of IOC investments, without differentiating as to where the
benefits accrue--GOI or IOC--, is a better measure of the financial viability
of IOC projects. This is the approach used for financial IRR calculations in
this chapter.
C. IOC's Finances
4.6      IOC's financial statements for FY84-88 and projections for FY89-95
are given in Annexes 4.2. Projections are based on the Bank's commodity
forecasts for crude oil, inflation in India at about 72 p.a., increase in
IOC's sales volume of 62 p.a., and increases in wages of about 22 p.a. in real
terms (see Annex 4.2). A summary of IOC's income statements for FY86-88 and
projections for FY89-94 are given below:



- 36 -
Actual                       Projections
FY ending 3/81:   1986  1987  1988   1989   1990   1991  1992   1993   1994
(Rs Billion)
Gross Margin on
Sales /a          12.2  15.0  17.0   18.4   19.7   21.7  24.5   31.4   35.2
Operating Cost    10.1  11.0  11.8   12.5   13.3   14.8  16.5   19.6   20.3
Operating Income   2.1   4.0   5.2    5.9    6.4    6.9   8.0   11.8   14.9
Net Income          1.3   4.3/b 4.1    4.7    4.8    4.5   5.6    9.1   11.3
Operating Ratio
(Z) Ic           83    74    69       68     67     63    54      52      50
Rate of Return
(2) /d           20    21    48       45     46     44    40      36      29
/a   Regulated ex-refinery prices for products less actual cost for crude
oil and purchased products.
lb   FY87 net profit was boosted by extraordinary income, due to retroac-
tive price adjustments that were accounted for in 1987.
Ic   Operating costs as a percentage of gross margin.
/d   Operating income less income tax as a percentage of net fixed assets
in operation valued at cost of acquisition; this rate of return
concept is different from the regulated one described in Annex 2.3.
4.7      During the project period, the volume of sales is expected to grow 6Z
p.a., duo to projected inflation and product price increases, sales revenues
are expected to grow on average 152 per year, gross fixed assets 242 per year,
gross margin on sales 12Z per year and operating costs 102 per year. However,
due to the GOI regulation of IOC's return, IOC's net profit will stagnate in
FY89-91, mainly for reasons given in para. 4.4 above. IOC's operating ratio
is expected to decline steadily during the project period due to efficiency
improvements and higher interest payments.l/ The high rate of return in
FY88-92 is mainly due to a relatively low rate base; after the commissioning
of major capital investments in FY93-94, IOC's rate of return will decline to
a more normal 25-30?.
4.8      IOC's financial position as of March 31, 1988 and projections for
March 31, 1994, the end of the project period, are given below:
1/ The remuneration system provides for a gross margin on sales that cover
interest payments on loans to finance IOC's capital employed (see Annex
2.3).



- 37 -
FY Ending March 31:                 19 3                1994
(Rs Billions)
Net Fixed Assets in Op.              7.5     28Z        49.7   47Z
Capital Works in Progr.              3.3     12Z        33.6   32Z
Investments                         11.9     45Z         0.8    12
Working Capital, Net                 3.9     152        20.6   202
Total Assets                    26.6    1002        104.7  1002
Stockholder's Equity                17.3     652        56.0   532
Long-term Debt                       9.3     352        48.7   47Z
Total Capitalization            26.6    1002        104.7  1002
Current Ratio (times)                1.2                 1.5
4.9      IOC's financial position is strong with long-term debt only about 352
of total capitalization. At the end of the project period, long-term debt is
expected to equal about 472 of total capitalization, but this share is likely
to decrease starting in FY95, when new capital expenditures are expected to
slow down and major capital works will be commissioned and start to earn
revenues. IOC's current ratio is expected to increase from 1.2 to 1.5 during
the project period, which would provide for adequate liquidity.
4.10     IOC's fixed assets are at cost of acquisition and may be undervalued
as compared with replacement cost. However, most fixed assets are fairly
young; in FY89 about 402 were less than five years old and, in FY94, over 602
will be younger than five years. Further, inflation in India has been rela-
tively moderate. IOC's valuation of fixed assets is, therefore, not causing
any major distortions of its financial statements.



- 38 -
4.11     IOC's projected funds flow statement for FY90-94 is presented below:
FY 90-94
Rs Billions           2
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                            68.8              75
Less:  Debt Service                                 12.7              14
Tax payments                                10.6              12
Dividends                                    1.1               1
Increase in WC                              14.7              16
Net Internal Cash Generation                    29.7               32
Liquidation of Investments                          17.2              19
Total Cash from Int. Sources                    46.9              51
New Long-Term Debt                                  44.8              49
Total Sources available for Cap. Exp.           91.7             100
Application
Capital Expenditures                                91.7             100
4.12     IOC expects to fund about 512 of its FY90-94 investment program out
of internal sources. This is satisfactory considering the high level of
capital expenditures planned for the period. The proposed Bank loan of US$340
million (Rs 4,950 billion equivalent) would finance about 5 of IOC's FY90-94
investment program. The Bank will lend directly to IOC, on the Bank's
standard terms for India, with the guarantee of GOI. The foreign exchange and
variable interest rate risks will be borne by IOC. IOC will also pay a fee to
GOI for its guarantee. The total cost of the Bank loan to IOC will depend on
the future exchange variations between the Indian rupee and the Bank's
currency pool. If future exchange variations follow the pattern of 1984-88,
the total cost to IOC would not be less than the commercial rate, currently
about 142, at which IOC can borrow from local commercial banks.
4.13     In addition to IOC's internal funds and the proposed Bank loan,
about Rs 44.0 billion (US$2,700 million equivalent) would be required for the
FY90-94 investment program. During appraisal, the feasibility of suppliers
credits, commercial bank credits, bond issues, public deposits, etc. was dis-
cussed with GOI and IOC and it was agreed that IOC would increase its use of



- 39 -
such external sources for the funding of its FY90-94 investment program.
During loan negotiations, assurances from IOC were obtained that adequate
funds will be allocated to the project to ensure its timely completion.
D. Financial Covenants
4.14     The financial projections for IOC indicate that IOC's financial per-
formance will continue to be satisfactory In terms of rate of return on assets
and cash generation under the GOI-established pricing and remuneration system.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from IOC that it will maintain:
(i) a current ratio of not less than 1.2; (ii) a debt/equity ratio below
60/40; and (iii) a debt service coverage of not less than 2.0 times;
assurances were als3 obtained from GOI that the refinery pricing system will
not be changed in a way that would be detrimental to IOC's financial
viability. Financial reporting and audit and IOC assurances that necessary
funds will be allocated to the project to ensure its timely completion have
been dealt with in paras. 2.10 and 4.13. In this context, GOI/IOC agreed to
arrange for US$75 million in co-financing for the line pipe for the proposed
project (para 3.9). The FY9o-94 investment program is the largest ever
undertaken by IOC and is estimated at US$6.3 billion equivalent; the financing
of this program will require that about US$3.0 billion equivalent be raised
from external sources. To ensure that IOC's managerial and financial
resources are not overcommitted, agreement was reached with GOI/IOC that the
Bank will be given an opportunity to review and exchange views with IOC on any
major change in IOC's FY90-94 investment plans (para. 2.18).
E.   Project Financial Evaluation
4.15     As stated in para. 4.5 above, it is more meaidngful to analyze the
financial viability of projects and their components without taking into
consideration to what extent benefits accrue to IOC or to GOI. The financial
IRRs below, therefore, reflect the total financial return on IOC investments.
The assumptions and calculations for these IRRs are given in Annexes 4.3 to
4.7.
4.16     The Kandla-Bhatinda pipeline is the main project component and con-
stitutes 632 of the total project cost; the rationale for its design is given
in paras. 5.3-5.5. The financial IRR calculations are based on the estimated
incremental capital and operating expenditures attributable to the pipeline
and include the costs of products required to fill tanks and the pipeline
among capital cost. The benefit of the pipeline is assumed to equal the sales
price of the products (less excise duties and distribution costs from the
pipeline terminal to the consumers) minus the CIF cost Kandla f,r products
(including normal port charges, taxes and duties). The resulting IRR of this
component is 4422/ (Annex 4.3). A sensitivity analysis indicates that with
102 higher capital costs or 102 lower revenues, the IRR would still exceed
40Z.
2/ The financial rate of return is not strictly comparable with the ERR,
due to different assumptions regarding benefits; for the ERR, pipeline
benefits are assumed to equal the avoided economic cost of the next
best alternative, railway transport.



- 40 -
4.17     The second single buoy mooring (SBM) system at Salaya constitutes
about 22 of the total project cost. The SBM is mainly justified on security
of supply grounds; a complete breakdown or the existing SBM would interrupt
the supply to the north-west of India of petroleum products equal to 11.2
million mtpa of crude oil for about three months. In any one year, the
probability of a complete breakdo-in is assessed at 1.5Z, while the probability
of less serious damage to the buoy (entailing a supply interruption of 15
days) is assessed at 3Z. The benefits of the second SBM are assumed to equal
the sales value of products (less excise duties and distribution costs) minus
the cost of crude (including port charges, taxes, duties, chemIcals and other
direct refining costs) for the expected volume of products that would not
reach the consumers in case of disaster. Another benefit is that ship waiting
times will be reduced; for more detail, see Annex 4.4. On this basis, the IRR
for the SBM would be 16Z; with 10Z higher costs or 1OZ lower revinues, the IRR
would still exceed 102.
4.18     The catalytic reformers (about 9Z of total project cost) will convert
the naphtha feedstock into higher value reformate (a high octane gasoline
blending component) and other products. Valuing the changes in product slate
at import parity prices, the IRRs of this project component would be 142 for
Barauni and 14Z for Digboi. The IRR would exceed 122 in both cases even with
102 higher costs or 1OZ lower benefits (Annex 4.5). The catalytic reformers
are also justified by their beneficial impact on the environment and the need
to comply with GOI established standards on the maximum lead content in
gasoline.
4.19     The distributed digital control system (DDCS), which is about 142 of
the total project cost, will increase the distillate recovery from IOC's
refineries and reduce fuel consumption and losses. Valuing the increased
distillate recovery and the fuel savings at import party prices, the IRR of
this project component would be 272 (Annex 4.6). Even with 102 higher costs
and 21! lower benefits, the IRR would be 25Z.
4.20     The revamp of the Haldia Lube Block, including the sulphur unit, is
about 32 of total project cost and will increase the production of high value
lube oils and diesel and decrease fuel oil and kerosene output. Valuing the
changes in product slate at import parity prices (which are close to ex-
refinery prices), the IRR of this project component would be 28Z (Annex 4.7).
Even with 10Z higher capital costs, or 10Z lower benefits, the IRR would
exceed 252.
4.21     No IRR has been calculated for the energy conservation and yield
optimization components; the technical, economic and financial feasibility of
these components will be reviewed by the Bank once the feasibility studies are
completed.  Neither has an IRR been calculated for the technical assistance
provided under the project.



- 41 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.1      Benefits have been quantified, and economic rates of return computed,
for the Kandla-Bhatinda Product Pipeline, the Single Buoy Mooring System at
Salaya, the Catalytic Reformers, the Distributed Digital Control Systems and
the Haldia Lube Block. Together, these items account for about 90Z of total
project costs.
B. Economic Evaluation of Kandla-Bhatinda Product Pipeline
Demand Projections
5.2      In 1985 the Ministry of Petroleum constituted a Committee on Supply
Measures, comprising representatives from the oil industry, Planning
Commission, and the Ministries of Petroleum & Natural Gas, Railways and
Surface Transport, to examine and recommend various measures to ensure
adequate supplies of petroleum products throughout India until the year 2005.
The Committee reported in January 1988 and the following analysis is based on
the Committee's projections, which seem reasonable.
5.3      The region to be served by the proposed pipeline covers what is
referred to as the northwest and Koyali-Kandla-Okha areas, embracing Deihi,
Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, western Uttar Pradesh,
Gujarat, Rajasthan, and a major portion of Madhya Pradesh. The demand for
major products 1/ in this region is projected to grow from 11.3 million tons
per annum (MMTPA) in 1988 to 33 MMTPA by 2005, implying an annual growth rate
of about 6.5Z, compared with 7Z per annum since 1980. In 1988, 8.4 MMTAA of
the 11.3 MMTPA total demand was met by two regional refineries at Koyali and
Mathura, which are producing at capacity.  The balance of 2.9 MMTPA was met by
products brought in through Kandla (2.2 MMTPA) and by net transfers from other
regions (0.7 MMTPA). Revamping and debottlenecking of the Koyali and Mathura
refineries will increase their combined output of major products by about
1 MMTPA by 1993. GOI has also approved construction of a new grass-root
refinery at Karnal, which is expected to produce 2.7 MMTPA of major products
in its initial commissioning year of 1995 and 4.2 MMTPA thereafter. However,
these increases in refinery capacity will be insufficient to keep pace with
demand, and the net regional deficit of major products to be met by imports
through Kandla is projected to reach 7.1 MMTPA in 1994, decline to 5.1 MMTPA
following the commissioning of the Karnal refinery, then progressively
increase to 14.7 MMTPA by 2005 (Annex 5.1). Of course, additional refinery
capacity, over and above that already approved, might be developed, and this
possibility has been provided for in designing the pipeline capacity (next
para.).
5.4      IOC's distribution plans for the region are based on minimum
transport cost as determined by a linear programming model capable of handling
up to 5,400 columns/variables and 1,500 rows/constraints. The model
identifies the least-cost channel of supplying each major product to each
1/ Motor Spirit (MS), Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF), Kerosene(SKO), High
Speed Diesel (HSD), and Light Diesel Oil (LDO).



- 42 
major consumption point, including whether that point should be supplied from
a regional refinery, a refinery in another region, or by product imported
through Kandla, and by which mode of transport. The model was also used to
identify the optimum route for the proposed pipeline, and the optimum location
of tap-off points. On the basis of this analysis, the projected throughputs
(Annex 5.1) and tap-off volumes for the Kandla-Karnal (Annex 5.2) and Karnal-
Bhatinda (Annex 5.4) sections of the pipeline were identified. As shown in
Annex 5.1, in the absence of any further additions to refinery capacity (over
and above those identified in the previous para.), the demand for pipeline
transport would reach 6.6 MMTPA in 1994, decline to 4.5 MKTPA following the
commissioning of Karnal, then gradually increase to over 12 MMTPA by 2005.
However, it is possible that refinery capacity in the region would be further
increased early next century by augmenting Karnal, and by establishing a new
grass-root refinery. For this reason, the initial design capacity of the
Kandla-Karnal section is limited to 6 MMTPA, and the economic analysis relates
to this maximum throughput. Throughput of the Karnal-B 'tinda section, which
is significantly less than on the Kandla-Karnal section, is the same
regardless of the refining scenario because it is independent of whether the
product originates from Kandla, from the Karnal refinery, or from a new
refinery.
5.5      On the basis of these projections, and after supplementary analysis
of optimum sizing of the pipeline and optimum phasing of expenditure, IOC
decided on an 22" OD pipeline with a capacity 6 MMTPA for Kandla-Karnal and
14r OD pipeline with initial capacity of 1.5 MMTPA, expandable to 2.5 MMTPA,
for Karnal-Bhatinda.
Methodology of Economic Evaluation
5.6      The Kandla-Karnal and Karnal-Bhatinda sections of the pipeline have
been analyzed separately, as volumes are much lower on the latter section.
The life of the pipeline is estimated at 30 years and this has therefore been
adopted as the analysis period. (The average life of equipment for the next
best alternative mode, rail, is also about 30 years.) Throughout, costs and
benefits have been converted to economic prices by: (a) expressing the
imported content at CIF prices; (b) deducting identifiable indirect taxes and
duties from the local component of project capital costs; and (c) applying the
estimated standard conversion factor of 0.8 to other local items. The basis
for capital cost estimates is explained in para. 3.7. Pipeline operating
costs are based on IOC's experience with existing pipelines.
5.7      In the absence of the project, the transport task would be performed
by rail, the next best alternative mode. The benefits of the project thus
comprise the avoidance of rail transport costs and the higher product losses
associated with rail transport. Economic costs of rail transport are based on
those used by the Planning Commission in recent studies. No account is taken
of track and yard investments which the railways would need to undertake to
accLmmodate the envisaged traffic. For example, the railyard at Kandla would
need to be improved, and sidings would need to be provided at other sites.
Furthermore, the principal broad gauge route between Kandla and the northwest
connects with the main Bombay-Delhi line, one of Indian Railways' busiest
routes which is approaching capacity limits on some sections. Indian Railways
plans to relieve congestion on this route by establishing an alternative route
to the west (largely by converting existing meter gauge lines to broad gauge,



- 43 -
together with construction of some missing links) at an estimated cost of
Rs 4,200 million. This alternative route would also reduce the distance to
the Punjab by some 400 km. The calculation of avoided rail costs (Annex 5.2)
is very conservative in that it is based on the shorter distance (which is
unlikely to be available before 1995) and does not include any of the capital
costs of the new route.
5.8      IOC's experience suggests that product loss in pipeline movement is
0.152 or less, while the locs on rail is about 0.5? due to loading/decanting
operations and evaporation during transit. For the Kandla-Karnal section, the
annual value of reduced product losses reaches Rs 38 million by year 2000 when
the pipeline capacity of 6 MMTPA is exhausted (Annex 5.3). For the Karnal-
Bhatinda section, reduced product losses reach Rs 9.5 million by the time the
initial pipeline capacity of 1.5 MMTPA is attained in 1997 (Annex 5.4).
5.9      Apart from the foregoing quantified benefits, the pipeline offers
advantages of reliability (especially important given the seasonal peaks in
petroleum consumption), safety and reduced environmental pollution. However,
it has not been possible to quantify these benefits.
Results
5.10     The results (Annexes 5.5-5.7) can be summarized as follows:
Table 5.1 ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - PIPELINE
Rate of Return
Completion   With Demand
Central   With Capital   delayed by   Growth 25Z
Result     Costs +102    two years         lower
Kandla-Karnal Section        22.2?         20.6Z        19.52          17.82
Karnal-Bhatinda Section      1'.8Z         14.4Z        14.7Z          14.7?
Both Sections                21.6Z         20.0Z        19.0?          17.5?
Thus the project is economically viable, and would remain so against the prin-
cipal risks, a cost overrun, a delay in completion or a 25? lower rate of
growth in demand. These estimates are highly conservative because the
analysis does not take account of some ma,or rail capital costs, nor some
unquantifiable benefits of pipelines.
C. Economic Evaluation of Additional Single Buoy Mooring System (SBM)
5.11     At the moment, 10 MMTPA of crude oil--half of which emanates from the
Bombay High field, with the remainder imported--is delivered through an
offshore single buoy mooring system (SBM) at Salaya near Kandla, from where it
is fed by onshore pipeline to the two existing regional refineries at Koyali
and Mathura (see map). These two refineries are currently undergoing
revamping, following which the requirement for crude oil through Salaya will
increase to 11.2 MMTPA. The existing SBM is already operating beyond its



- 44 -
design capacity of 9.5 MMTPA, with the result that tankers frequently have to
wait to obtain access to the SBM, and essential maintenance schedules are
disrupted. Because the SBM is the sole means of supplying this crude to the
two refineries, IOC is very concerned that any breakdown in or damage to the
facility would seriously disrupt refinery production and thus product supplies
to the north-west region. After considering several alternatives, it has been
determined that the most efficient way of reducing this risk is to install an
additional SBM, connected to the same submarine pipeline as used by the
existing SBM. At a later stage, if further crude handling capacity is
required, it would be possible to provide the second SBM with an independent
connection to the shore, thus in effect doubling capacity. For the moment,
however, this is not necessary. Connecting an additional SBM to the existiag
submarine pipe will provide an alternative facility as a precaution against
the two principal risks: breakdown/damage of the buoy and/or hoses (with a
probability of 32 in any one year) and breakdown/damage of the plem (the
underwater connection between the SBM and the submarine pipeline), which has a
probability of 1.5Z in any one year.   The additional SBM would also augment
capacity to some degree. Although it would not be possible to pump through
both SBMs simultaneously (because they share the one connection to shore), it
'would be possible to connect a waiting vessel to one SBE while the other SBM
I s occupied, thereby reducing vessel waiting time.
Methodology
5.12     Costs and benefits have been converted to economic terms using the
same procedures as for the Kandla-Bhatinda product pipeline (para. 5.6).
Capital, maintenance and operating costs are based on IOC's experience with
the existing SBM.  It is assumed that the second SBM would be operationa' by
the beginning of Indian FY93, and would have a life of 15 years.
5.13     Annex 5.8 provides details of the computation of benefits.  The
essential features are as follows. Three categories of benefits have been
quantified: (a) reduced risk of supply interruptions; (b) savings in ship
time; and (c) savings in cargo time. The additional SBM will virtually
eliminate the two risks of supply interruption mentioned in paragraph 5.11.
(The probability of the two SBMs simultaneously suffering the same
interruption is so small that it can be ignored.) Without the additional SBM,
damage to the existing buoy would disrupt supplies for 15 days, and damage to
the plem would disrupt supplies for 90 days. Inventories provide a buffer of
5 days, so the net interruption to product supplies would be 10 days and 85
days respectively. The impact of any interruption is related to its duration.
It would be impossible to arrange alternative supplies within the first 10
days of any interruption (after the buffer stock is exhausted). For this
period, the value of product sales foregone may be taken as a conservative
measure of the disruption suffered by consumers. From the national viewpoint,
one needs to deduct the savings from not having consumed the related crude oil
that would have been consumed by the refinery during this period. The
analysis assumes that for any period beyond this initial 10 days, an
alternative imported supply of products could be arranged. Thus the cost of
interruptions from day 11 to day 85 is taken as the cif value of those product
imports, from which is deducted the value of crude not consumed because of the
refinery closure. This is conservative, as it ignores any problems that
receiving facilities for product imports might experience in accommodating the
emergency supplies, and the additional distribution costs arising from the
fact that the import points are further from the markets than the refineries.



- 45 -
5.14     The ability to berth a vessel at the second SBM while the other one
is occupied would save 40 days per annum in ship waiting time, with an annual
value to India (after allowing for some leakage of benefits to foreign ship
owners) of Rs 7.7 million. Savings in cargo time would amount to Rs 1.5
million per annum; as contracts for crude are written FOB, these savings
would all accrue to India. Details of these calculations are provided in
Annex 5.8.
Results
5.15     The analysis suggests that the proposed augmentation of crude oil
supply capacity would yield an economic rate of return of 292 (Annex 5.9).
The principal risks for this project component are cost overrun and/or delayed
implementation, but sensitivity tests demonstrate that the project is robust
to the likely range of risks in these factors. If costs turn out to be 102
higher than estimated, the rate of return would still be satisfactory at 262,
while if implementation takes 2 years longer than expected the rate of return
would also still be satisfactory at 25Z.
D. Economic Evaluation of Refinery Components
5.16     The economic evaluation of the refinery components uses essentiai'y
the same methodology as in the financial analysis (paras 4.15-21), except that
costs have been converted to economic terms throughout by deducting the tax
component. All three components increase the net value of refinery output (by
increasing output or the proportion of higher value products in the output
mix, or by reducing fuel consumption and losses); these changes have been
valued at import parity prices. Details are provided in Annexes 5.10 to 5.12
and the results are as follows:
Table 5.2: ECONOMIC ANAI.YSIS - REFINERY COMPONENTS
Rate of Return
Completion
Central      With Costs        Delayed by
Result         + 10           Two Years
Catalytic Reformers            19.9           17.9              16.1
Digital Control Systems        41.8           39.3              31.4
Haldia Lube Block              48.0           44.2              36.1
5.17     These results are conservative insofar as they do not incorporate any
valuation of the environmental benefits, lower maintenance costs and improved
safety which would accompany these project components.



- 46 -
E. Overall Results of the Economic Evaluation
5.18     The principal project components, covering 902 of total project
costs, were subjected to economic evaluation. As summarized below, these
components were found to be economically viable, and robust to the principal
project risks.
Table 5.3: RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY TESTS ON PROJECT ECONOMICS
Rate of Return
Central results
Kandla-Bhatinda Pipeline                          22Z
Single Buoy Mooring System                        292
Catalytic Reformers                               202
Digital Control Systems                            422
Haldia Lube Block                                  482
All Components (weighted average)              262
Sensitivity tests
Cost increase of 102
Kandla-Bhatinde Pipeline                       202
Single Buoy Mooring System                     262
Catalytic Reformers                            182
Digital Control Systems                        392
Haldia Lube Block                              442
All Components (weighted average)            232
Implementation Prolonged 2 years
Kandla-Bhatinda Pipeline                       192
Single Buoy Mooring System                     252
Catalytic Reformers                            162
Digital Control Systems                        312
Haldia Lube Blockl                             362
All three components (weighted average)    212
Demand Growth 25? Lower
Kandla-Bhatinda Pipeline /a                    182
/a This sensitivity test is applied only to this component because
product imports are the balancing item in matching supply and
demand. As local production is less than demand, benefits for
the SBM ar,d refinery components are not sensitive to a 252
reduction in the rate of growth of total demand.



7 47 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1      Agreements.  During negotiations, assurances and agreements were
obtained from GOI that the existing refinery pricing and remuneration system
will not be changed in a way that would be detrimental to IOC's financial
viability (para. 4.14); and from IOC that it will:
(a) have its financial accounts audited by an independent auditor accep-
table to the Bank, and submit to the Bank th_ audited accounts within
six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 2.10);
(b) maintain insurance coverage against risks and in amounts that are
consistent with appropriate practices (para. 2.12);
(c) review annually before December 31, its FY90-94 investment program
for its subsequent financial year with the Bank and exchange views
prior to the implementation, on the economic and financial
justification of any addition to the program that would result in an
increase of over US$50 million in the funding requirements for any
given year (para. 2.18);
(d) arrange for US$75 million in co-financing for line pipe (para. 3.9);
(e) open a Special Account for the project with a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.18);
(f) continue to take adequate precautions in line with industry practices
to protect its workers and the environment during the implementation
of the project (para. 3.21);
(g)  provide the Bank with quarterly project progress reports detailing
implementation progress, cost, procurement, special account transac-
tions and disbursements, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, and to
prepare a Project Completion Report within six months of project
completion (para 3.22);
(h) allocate necessary funds to the project to ensure its timely
completion (para. 4.13); and
(i) maintain: (i) a current ratio of not less than 1.2 times; (ii) a
debt/equity ratio below 60/40; and (iii) a debt service coverage of
not less than 2.0 times (para. 4.14.).
6.2      Recommendation.  Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$340 million equivalent, for 20
years, including 5 years grace, at the standard variable interest rate.



INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
Organizalion Chad for Indian Oi Corporation
( MwnQu             .4Qckx    Row ede       u &oco                            *Wk
(Jullgfl  CocW'.oslon  inpecrion      AdaiW~~~~~~k*OtlOn
Aecla  | |    D"ecta  | |           I I               I r                I  
eenocmDL glk     n        i R  & Sl ciety    Develpmentm                    ,G                         n
Dlreotangiset
_ _ _ _ _ _  _I-
DepR c  monoge,   Do"  D"x* G"cl Mmago         OWuN fiffmall 0,~KQWW   OW-V*ud& M2n804
,amcd mmogo    DO" C-"Cd   cAmc mwmow         DOPUIV Ganiod Manoo
MOWN                                                   warunw                                     (E"kRga)(i"   am
h"etfnA1                                             G eN ohiuisvcs Pro no &                                                                        |m RPOI  JPev
_-                     Q>iAmo               in| t,)  =drWofo                             ,      . AAuc
En-m                 Moneim                k4li .Lg-a Rekma ,,AW |                 -                      r                     I
;; laccofamu'Acllon        MIL k1               Fil &l lSculSce      DwFfelopen         ||t tSc                1         R 4         |       VF 
|laeuiesay          ||                     lr 1                            e Mon SeNtY es 11                            SF`iSP       111a
WOMB 42m14l



- 49 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LTD. (IOC)
Perfonmance Indicators
1.   Refineries               Guwahati    Barauni   Gujarat   Haldi    Mathura
Design Capacity (MNT)            0.85        3.30      8.10      2.50     6.00
Throughput: FY87                 0.80        2.86      7.84      2.62     6.35
FY88                 0.82       2.64       8.44     2.81      6.54
Cap. utilization FY88 (S)       95.90 i    79.90 La 104.20   112.30   108.90
Fuel & Loss (% on T'put):
FY87           8.00        9.00 L&   5.80      8.90     5.50
FY88           8.60        9.00 Z&   6.10      9.10     5.40
Standard      10.10        8.50      7.50    10.10      6.60
Fuel Ref. Cost/MT: (Rs) /b    126.90        78.30     59.20    74.60    89.20
(US$)        8.70       5.35       4.05     5.10      6.10
Ref. Cost/Bbl       (US$)        1.19        0.73      0.55      0.70     0.83
Net Profit bef. Tax (MN Rs)    78.8        210.40  1,220.60   365.30   965.50
La  Due to low crude deliveries from the Assam fields, which impeded optimal
operations.
b Excluding lubes and speciality products. Fuel and Losses not included.
2.  Pinelines La           GS       _BK    KA     HB    HMRB    MU      SVKM
Capacity (MMT)          0.82    1.80   1.10   1.40   1.25   3.70   10.00
Throughput: FY87        0.58    1.76   1.22   0.91   1.22   2.76    9.70
FY88       0.64    1.74   1.23   1.07   1.23   3.00   10.27
Cap. utilization (8)  78.00   96.40 111.60  76.10  98.00  81.10  102.70
/a  Products pipelines: GS-Guwahati/Siligurits; BK-Barauni/Kanpur; KA-Koyali/
Ahmedabad; HB-Haldia/Barauni; HMRB-Haldia/Maur/Rajbandh/Barauni and
NJ-Nathura/Jullundurts. Crude oil pipeline: SVKR-Salaya/Viranugani/Koyali/
Nathura (see attached map).



- 50-                           ANNEXh 2.2
Page 2 of 2
3.       The profit before interest and income tax was Rs 177.8 million for
IOC's pipelines and Rs 3,045.7 million for its refineries (including head
office). A comparative income statement for FY88 is given below:
Refineries        Pigelines          Total
-------------(Rs million)------------
Value of Proeaction                  47,465.1            882.0         48,347.1
Cost of Raw Materials                42.514.9               -          42.514.9
Gross Margin                          4,950.2            882.0          5,832.2
Operating Costs                       1,995.9            711.2          2,697.1
Operating Income                      2.954.3            170.8          3.135.1
Misc. Income                             21.4              7.L             2L4
Profit before Int. & Tax              3,045.7            177.8          3,223.5
4.       If the value of IOC's refinery production and cost of its crude oil
feedstock are recalculated at international prices,L/ gross margin and
operating income would be as given below.
USSMillion           US$/BB
Value of production                         2,497              16.22
Cost of raw material                        2.186              14.20
Gross margin                                  311               2.02
Operating costs                               137               0.89
Operating Income                              174               1.13
/  Based on Platt's Oilgram for November 15, 1988, including estimated
freight charge to Bombay.



- 51 -                        ANNEX 2.3
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
PRICING AND MARGINS
Retention Price for Refineries:
1.       GOI has established a refinery pricing system that provides for a
return on capital employed, consisting of net fixed assets in operation plus
working capital. A 12% after tax return is recognized on the capital employed
funded by equity and actual interest payments are reimbursed on borrowed
capital used to fund capital employed. This system is based on standard norms
in respect of crude throughput, product pattern, fuel and loss and operating
costs. These norms are reviewed periodically. The procedure for establishing
the retention price for each refinery per metric ton of crude oil throughput
is based on the following components:
(a)  Delivered Cost of Crude Oil consist of the FOB cost of crude oil,
freight, insurance, wharfage, duties, etc.;
(b)  Standard Refining Cost: which is set for each refinery taking into
consideration the actual costs incurred by the refinery in the past,
adjustsd for estimated price increases for the period during which
the price recommendation will remain valid. The standard refining
costs are specific for each refinery and take into account plant
configuration and design and magnitude of investment etc;
(c)  Return on Investment: which has been provided under the net worth
concept. For this purpose, "capital employed" for a refinery
consists of tne net fixed assets in operation plus the normative
working capital, and this capital employed is apportioned between
equity and borrowing.j/ On the equity portion, a 12% after tax
return is provided for, and on the borrowed portion, interest is
reimbursed based on the actual payments by the company.
(d)  Standard Throughput. Product Pattern and Fuel and Loss for  Each
Refinery are set for each refinery based on crude availability,
secondary processing facilities, offsite facilities and other
relevant technical factors. The refinery has to reach the standard
level of throughput and production to get full compensation for its
costs and to earn a return on its investments;
/ Net fixed assets are defined as the value of gross fixed assets in
operation less accumulated depreciation (as valued under the income tax
rules). Normative working capital is defined as the equivalent to 45
days of crude throughput for refineries processing imported crude, and
as 35 days for refineries processing domestic crude. The sum of net
fixed assets in operation and the normative value of working capital
gives the capital employed.



- 52 -                          ANNEX 2.3
Page 2 of 4
(e)  Allocation of Total Cost of Production of a Refinery to Individual
Products - Retention Prices of Products: The total cost of
production is allocated to the individual products based on indices
given by the Government; and
(f)  Free Trade Products:  The retention price is applicable to bulk
refined petroleum products, for which prices are controlled by the
Government. In case of speciality products like benzene, toluene,
slack wax, N-heptane, aluminum rolling oils, etc., IOC is free to set
the selling prices according to market conditions. Normally, the
processing of speciality products are more profitable than regulated
ones.
TransRort Cost for Crude/Products through Pipelines
2.       The transportation cost is worked out based on the capital employed
and standard transportation costs much in the same way as for refineries. The
transportation cost per tonne of crude/product is given by the normative
throughput, established by GOI's Pricing Committee, availability of
crude/products, etc.
3.       Selling Prices
(a)  Ex-Refinery Prices are uniform for all refineries in India and are
based on the weighted average of the retention prices of each
products for the various refineries. Difference between ex-refinery
and retention prices are settled over Government accounts.
(b) Ex-storage Prices of Marketing Company contain the following
elements:
(i) Ex-refinery prices;
(ii) Applicable freight charges;
(iii) Marketing margins determined in line with those of refineries
and pipelines;
(iv) Excise duty on products; and,
(v) Applicable sales tax/local taxes.
Efficiency Improvements
4.       In addition to the retention price for refineries/pipelines, which
provides for a return on equity and standard operating costs, the pricing
system rewards efficiency and penalizes inefficiency on the following basis:
(a) higher margins for crude oil throughput exceeding the standard level
(at the standard level, entitlement is for operating expenses and a
12% return on fixed investments);



- 53 -                          ANNE  2.3
Page 3 of 4
(b)  reductions in refinery operating costs to the extent these are lower
than the standard refining cost accrue to the refinary;
(c) reductions in ocean/pipeline losses benefits for refinery and
pipeline operation;
(d) a higher return is earned when the actual working capital is lower
than the normative working capital; and,
(e) revenue from improvements in product yield pattern over norms and
cost savings by reduction of internal fuel consumption and processing
losses to levels below the established levels, accrue to the
refinery.
5.       A typical case from one of the refineries, where both incentive for
higher throughput and improvement in product pattern have been earned, is
given below:
Refinery:     Mathura                             Qty. in Million Tonnes
Year:         1986-87                             Value in Million Rupees
Design Capacity                                              6.000  MKTPA
Standard throughput as fixed by Government                   5.400  MNTPA
Actual Throughput                                            6.353  MMTPA
(a)  Return on Investment (Up to
standard level of Throughput).
(i)   Rate of Return                          Rs.115.87/MT
(ii)  Standard throughput                     5.400  MKTPA
(iii) Return (i x ii)                         625.70
(Operating costs are also realized]
separately in addition to return).
(b)  Incentive for additional throughput
over standard level.
(i)   Standard throughput                     5.400  HMTPA
(ii)  Actual throughput                       6.353  HMTPA
(iii) Additional throughput (ii - i)          0.953  MMTPA
(iv)  Standard refining cost                  Rs.89.17/MT
(v)   Return on Investment                    Rs.11587/MT



- 54 -                           ANNEX 2.3
Page 4 of 4
(vi) Margin available (iv + v) on
additional throughput.                  Rs.205.04/MT
(vii) Incentive (iii X vi)                    Rs.195.40
(c) Incentive for improvement in
product pattern.                              Rs.173.28
5.       In summary the total earnings amount to:
Return on investment based on
standard throughput 5 (a)                   Rs.625.70
Incentive for increased throughput            Rs.195.40
Incentive for improvement in production
pattern                                    Rs.173.28
Total earnings



- 55  -                                    ANNEX  3.1
Page 1 of 3
INDI
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
(In Runees MillionY             (In USS Million)
Local     FEL      Total      Loe l    P. R.    otal
A. Kandla-Ihatlads Pineline
Survey & Fleld Engineering                14       0       14         1         0       1
Land AcqulsLtLon                          65       0       65         4         0        4
BuildLngs & Township                     137       0      137         7         0        7
EnglneerLng & Project Management        166      163      329         9        11      20
Li-npipe                               1922      939     2861       134        64     198
Llne MaterLaLs                          251      149      400        17        10      27
Pipeline Construction                   303      814     1117        22        56       78
Pump Stations, Tap-Off Ponts
L Terminals                          427     277       704       30         19      49
CathodLc ProtectLon                      65       34       99         4         2       6
Telecom & Scads System                  315      231      546        23        16       39
Branch Line to Jodhpur                  2        10      270      _18          1      19
subtotal                      32S   2617       6542      26        179      44
D. Second 8M
Engineering & Project Management           7       0        7         0.4     0.0       0.4
Land AcquisitLon                           1       0        1         0.0     0.0       0.0
Townships                                 S        0        5         0.3     0.0       0.3
SuildLngs                                 4        0        4         0.3     0.0       0.3
Plant & MachLnery                         56      54      110         3.8     3.6        7.4
Navigation & Berthing Alds                 3      39       42         0.2     2.7       2.9
Project Expenses                           I      10       11         0 0      _        P. L0
Subtotal                        27Z    103       180        S2 O       i 72l0
C. CatalvtLe Reformer at
Baraunl Refinery
Slte Development                          5        0        5         0         0       0
EngLneerLng & Project
Management                            51        0       51         4         0       4
Royalties and Knowhow                      6       7       13         0         1       1
Plant and Machinery                     416      108      524        29         7      36
ConstructLon Stte
Requirements                          7        0        7        0          0       0
ConstructLon Period Expenses              7        0        7         1         0       1
Start-up & Miscellaneous
Expenses                             11        1       12        1          0       1
Townships                                  3       0        3         0         0       0
Design Allowance                         44        9       S3         3         1       4
Subtotal                       550 S      12S                         2       4



- 56 -
56  -                        ANNE~Q X  3.1
Page 2 of 3
--l Renee Millionl              (in   S Million)
Lausl     F  E       al       Leenl     F  ToSta
D. Catalytic Reformer at
Diaboi Refiner=
Site Developmnnt                          2        0        2         0         0       0
hagin ering & Project
Management                            20        0       20         2         0       2
Royaltles & Inawhov                        1       4        5         0         0        0
Plant and Machinery                     167       37      204        11         3      14
Coenstautiou Period Expenses              6        0        6         1         0       1
Start-up & Miscellaneous
Expanses                               2        1        3        0          0       0
Design Allovanw e                         t       j        20                   A Q     1
Subtotal                        }       j5      3jQ        1                  I1
E. Distributed Digital
Control Systems
GuvahatL Refinery                        48       41       89         3         3       6
laraunl Refinery                        186      108      294        13         7      20
Gujerat Refinery                        270      136      406        18         9      27
HbldLa Refinery                         161      109      270        11         7      18
Mathura Refinery                        maa      121 9i                         2      3
Subtotal                       887      1l      1404       61        31       21
P. Pover Plant at
Diaboi Ref mAry
Engineering                                3      24       27         0.2     1.8       2.0
Procurement, Installation
S Start-up                            31     216       la         1A 8      _a      160
Subtotal                        3      LI       an2         2.i    16.0       18 5
G. Yleld OntimLsation 
Enerav Conservgtlon
Engineering                              30       20       50         2         2       4
Procurement, Lnstallation
5 Coamissioninrg                             in 180    45Q       18                 30
Subtotal                       1       20v       50-0      20        14       34
B. UaldLa Lube Block
tl)  Lube Facilltyt
Enaineerlng                     16       8        24        1       0.5        1.5
Procurement, Installation
& Start-up                  in                           9                 A 55 1  5
Subtotal                      1in       83      M2         lA       LA0       16A0
(t')  Sulphur Plants
Engineerlng                      9       1        10        0.6        -       0.6
Procurement, Installation
& 3tart-up                   21       4       8Q         5.4     5_ L4
Subtotal                        Al                                             j 29  6 0  _6f



- 57                                    ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 3
tIn Ruoees  tillioi (In US8 Mllton)
Lol F)    E       him                           Totalol
I T Sebhnal  Assistanee & Trainina
Refinery Yield Optimization & Puel
Conservation                           7      15       22         0.5     1.0       1.5
Pip.line Survey                          14      14       28         1.0     1.0       2.0
Dlstributed Digital Control System       2.      14       36         1.5     1.0       2.5
Training                                 14       7       21         1.0     0.5       1.5
Process Simulators Training
Aids, etc.                            14      22       36         1.0     1.5       2.5
Pipeline Surveys Inhtrunents &
Equipments                           29       28       57         2 28              A Q
Subtotal                      122      1La      200           0    7.0       14.0
Project Base Cost                      6325    4035    10360         433     276       709
Physical Contingencies                  632     404     1036          43      28        71
Prlee Contligency                      1454     929     2303         1                 164
Total Project Cost                             ,       13779                           244



- 58 --
ANNEX 3*2
Page 1 of 8
S i
*
"I. 
Z}       _        II I________   I___            I:___  __
I ___________l__ ____                  i__
e ___ __ __ ___ __ --'___--I
i i.     U   _I  __        _   __ 1_         1_1
!~ i   o __ __ __  ___ __ __
e)*   _J l       l 
_~ _ _        _-               11j-  I r       j
_ _i _I = I =77    -                   T          I



_59 _AN~NEX 3.2
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____    ___    ____      ___Page                   2   of   8
l_I 
_ __                               _____ _
X I
-i    _  _   _  _   _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _ _    _



INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANWSPORT PROJECT
CATALYniC REFORMERS- BARAUNI & DIGBOL RERNERIES
ImpkmenntaIon Schedule
AC#.2314 52                 1 3   |1  7 8  91011  123i4 S5|46117 81 9120 21 2223 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32|33|343s5 36 37 3S 39 40|4142143M -6 47d8 49S0
i. PROCESS UCENS ENGU4EING
dL Suiscitn d~ PwontmUejrw
b. RoictEs10nbStbV&J1
a SHECflON OF GENEL
cL FtquacatlOf
b. usJ d AU D=wmfuto0
RotcEPd opO2a 
- Awo caimflocO
<*417842
G.



OWM r ECT
DROUD DGITL COMM INMS IN RENR
b S d dewmkMoegk
A  21 3 14 _ 6 _ a  _ l 4121345   i714922t 22 23 2a12526 2: 2931 32  33U3S3 3IOIS3 14 43i"S 4I AS*551 52 83  *5Sh3S7S  do
OE E                      M4  2   1   111119                                                                                     LI0
4 P8REAiA1R4 OF00G
*                                                                                             X84~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Io O
0a
b. evokcnM & AwWd of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ gq



INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
CaptIve Power Plant at the Digbo Refnnety
ImpemendotIon Schedule
OuxIionanbMonhs
I 2 3 4  5 6  7, 9*iOii 14213 14i5 16 1718 19120 24 22 23 2 2526 27 202930 3 3233 3625 36 37 3S39 404i42 43 4 46d4748 9 50
1. SELECilON OF CONSLTAN1S
& PREPARATION OF INB
3. ELECION OF GENEWAL
CONWACTOR
L SocftfatIon lId                                                               D
tb Evdiak=on & Am/b d
4. H5TALLAIIOI& COWA.,SSONING                                                             -    HU-
414
co17



-63-                 ANNEX 3.2
Page 6 of 8
gEi __
S~~~~~S
A   ___
I. I
2



- 64 -
_  Sl                    ,          4     ~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 3.2
S   _  __    _  _.___          _  __    _           Page    7 of   8
I   __.   _   _ _    _ _..__            _
____ __
S __                          _
a0      0~a
x   I
fl _ I~~
11,iii Hit --X



- 65 -                         ANNEX 3.2
______ _____ ______ _____Page   8   of   8
pil  __  _____
II          __ _         =_____
ili           __a__   ______
I         -    -
Kr        __             ______-
CC___           ______



- 66 -
ANNEX 3.3
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                        at End of Quarter
(US $1,000)
1989/1990
December 31, 1989                          35,000
June 30. 1990                              35,000
1990/1991
December 31, 1990                          80,000
June 30, 1991                             145,000
199111992
December 31, 1991                         210,000
June 30, 1992                            275,000
199211993
December 31, 1992                        300,000
June 30, 1993                             325,000
1993/1994
December 31, 1993                         330,000
June 30, 1994                             340,000



ANNEX 3.4
Page 1
- 67 -
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
Pollution Control AsDects
1.       The operation industrial plants must have the consent of the
Pollution Control Board in the state the plant is located as well as
environmental clearance from the Department of Environment (DOEn), an agency
of the Central Government in the Ministry of Environment and Forests. When a
new unit is to be added to an existing plant a *No Objection Certificate, from
the state board and clearance from the DOEn are required. The state pollution
control boards limits discharge of effluents into the different disposal areas 11
at the same level as specified by the Indian Standards Institution (ISI). In
November 1986 the DOEn proposed more stringent standards for effluent
discharged by oil refineries. Attachment I shows a comparison of the
industrial effluent standards specified under IS-2490 and the proposed
standards for oil refineries.
2.       Attachment II shows the required air quality standards applying to
the four major pollutents 21 in three location categories. DOEn is in the
process of formulating stricter standards for refinery emissions to the
atmosphere.
3.       When construction is completed on the enhanced effluent treating
plant (scheduled for end-December 1988) the Barauni refinery is expected to be
in 100Z compliance with the proposed DOEn effluent standards. The additional
4 cu.m. per hour of effluent produced by the catalytic reformer when it goes
on stream will be insignificant when compared to the average 600 cu.m. per
hour currently treated by the refinery, and no perceptible change in effluent
quality should result. Ambient air monitoring shows that average levels of
the three main pollutants (SO2 - 38, NOx 33 and SPM 75 micro grams per cu.
meter) are well within the acceptable limits shown in Attachment II. The
catalytic reformer will add about 37 kg per hour (1OX) to the current sulfer
dioxide emission which is not sufficient to significantly increase the
concentration of this pollutent when compared to the permissible limits shown
in Attachment II.
4.       There were no effluent treating facilities at the Digboi refinery
when it was taken over by IOC in 1981. On completion of Phase 2 of the 300
cu.m. per hour effluent treating plant (scheduled for end-December 1988), the
refinery is expected to be in full compliance with the proposed DOEn
standards. The 2 cu.m. per hour effluent flow added by the catalytic reformer
should not result in any perceptible change in effluent quality. Atmospheric
emission is currently well within acceptable limits (SO2 - 52, NOx - 57 and
SPM -22 micrograms per cu.m.). The catalytic reformer will only produce
neglible amounts of sulfur dioxide which should not significantly effect
current concentration levels.
1/  Inland surface waters, public sewers, on land for irregation and marine
coastal areas.
2/ Suspended particulate matter (SPM), sulfur dioxide (S02), Carbon
monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides (NO.)



-68 -                         ANNEX 3. 4
Attachment I
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
Effluent Standards
Parameters     Standard presently      Proposed new standard by DOEn /a
followed
Indian Standard        Maximum      Max. kgs/  Maxilm
IS -2490 for            concen-     1000 MT    Kgs/lOOOM3
discharge into          tration     of crude   of crude
inland surface                      processed  processed /b
water
BOD         mg/i         30                 15          10.5         8.9
COD         mg/l        250                  _           -           _
TSS         mg/i        100                 20          14.0        11.9
OIL         mg/i         10                 10           7.0         6.0
PHENOL      mg/li         1                  1           0.7         0.6
AMMONIA
NITROGEN    mg/i         50                  _           _           _
SULFIDES    mg/i          2                  0.5         0.35        0.3
TOTAL CR    mg/l          2                  -           -           -
CR+6        mg/i          0.1
la  For other parameters limits specified in ISs2490 are to be followed.
b Converted to volume basis assuming a density 0.85 gns/lit for crude.



ANNEX 3.4
- 69 -                      Attachment II
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
National Air Quality Standards
Area    Category            Concentration in microgram per cubic meter
SPM        S02          Co          NOX
A       Industrial and      500          120       5,000          120
mixed use
B       Residential and    200            s0      2,000           80
rural
C       Sensitive           100           30       1,000           30



- 70 -
- 70 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX 3.5
INDIA
PETROLEUMI TRANSPORT PROJECT
Progress Reporting Recuirements
The Bank requires periodic progress reporting on the implementation
of projects it is financing. For this project, the format and content of the
reports can be arranged to suit both the Bank's and IOC's management's
requirements. During negotiations agreement will be reached with IOC
regarding the format to be adopted. The Bank's minimum requirements are that
a progress report issued at no longer than quarterly intervals contain the
following:
(a) a short concise narrative account of such project highlights as key
events and accomplishments during the reporting period, future
prospects and in general where the project stands at that point in
time compared to where it should be;
(b) a master implementation plan in the form of a simplified CPM diagram
for each project component showing the major activities, events and
milestones from start to finish;
(c) a measuring of accomplishments and developments against the master
plan to identify critical activities falling behind schedule and a
description of the action plans undertaken to bring such activities
on schedule;
(d) as a corollary to (c) a running account of the activities behind
schedule and status of action plans to bring them on schedule and the
current projected project completion date;
(e)  a procurement schedule giving all pertinent data such as status,
cost, delivery dates, problems, etc.;
(f) a project cost account and cost analysis for each project component
updated for each reporting period covering expenditures and
commitments, comparison with SAR project cost estimates, revised
project cost estimates and projected final project costs; and
(g) a narrative account, supported with appropriate charts or tables, of
the status and activities regarding the technical assistance and
training project components (in greater detail than under (a) above).



- 71 -                           ANNEX  .1
Page 1 ef 2
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED. (IOC)
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Statements
Income SLatement
1.       The cost of crude, products, consumables and duties is expected to
increase in line with the Bank's commodity price forecast for crude oil
(January 27, 1988) adjusted for projected Indian rupee devaluation of the Rs
against the US$ (about 2% p.a.). Volumes are assumed to increase by 6% a
year.
2.       IOC revenues will be determined by the GOI established prices, which
will be set at appropriate levels to allow IOC to earn the regulated return.
3.       Salaries are assumed to increase by 2% p.a. in real terms, which also
would allow for an addition of about 400 employees during the project period.
Other operating expenses (except for depreciation) are assumed to increase in
line with projected domestic inflation: 9% in FY89, 8% in FY90, 7% in
FYs91-93 and 6.5% thereafter.
4.       Interest paid has been calculated on average outstanding balances at
8% for invested funds (Rs8.6 billion under a special arrangement with GOI) and
13% on average for other long-term debt.
5.       Income tax has been estimated at 50% of taxable profit, which
excludes interest income from investments and credits for strategic storage.
6.       Dividends have been projected at the rate of 18% of paid up capital
as from FY88.
Balance Sheet
7.       Projections of fixed assets and work in progress are based on IOC's
investment program adjusted for price contingencies in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Depreciation has been calculated according to current rate
averaging 10%, on fixed assets not fully depreciated.
8.       Accounts receivable and inventories (mainly crude and products) have
been projected on the same basis as under 1. above. Other current assets have
been assumed to increase in line with inflation.
9.       Accounts payable have been projected on the basis of 1. above; other
current liabilities in line with inflation.



-72 -                         ANN-EX 4. 1
Page 2 of 2
Funds Elow
10.      The adjustments to income include adjustments for prior years, as
shown in the income statement, as well as difference between depreciation, as
shown in the income statement, and the Increase for the year of accumulated
depreciation, as shown in the balance shest.
11.      Increase in long-term debt does not include current portion, which is
included under working capital.
12.      Repayment of long-term debt has been projected assuming five years of
grace for the Bank loan and three years of grace for other loans. IOC has
been assumed to prepay loans as from FY95 when its cash flow may permit this.



INDIA
ItQIAN OIL CORTION LIMIT
PETROLEUM lRlMART PROJECT
DICOME STATEMENT Met a 4-90)
(Sn M lllon Ra)
ACTUAL                                 PROJECTION
Fisal Year Ending 8/51:       1964       1906     196     1907    1968   1i6        1990    1901    1902    1005    1994    1906
Oil                    1e6,72  16,871  18,860  11,677  18,174
oet-oIeu  products           061,288  94,288   00,6614  114,275  130,658
otheu Reve 9ue007                        830   2,s 0    11,671     460
Total Operating itos ue   108,712 110,942  116,012 120,028 144,267  I6,400 206,400 286,200  266,090   808,000 8420001   ,So
Products aVrvds for leei   44,018  45,424  40,8    55,186  64,60
RaT Master ialner  R          5 37,1666  41,662  8,9'7o  415,20  165,185
Duties                       11,515  12,627- 14,787- 42,60  46,168
Total Cost of Sales           94,018  99,913 105,652 118,061  127,2906 162,060 16,6090 21,540 242,450 271,560  1006,600 345,00
GROSS MARGIN                   9,700  11,080   12,160  14,902  16,991  16,850  19,710  21,060   24,450  81,440  85,200  80,020
Powerandi FuEl                   98      1038    125      184      207     220      280      250     270      200   510        2'
recistion             0~~~~~~76   1,101   1,26  1,420   1,540   1,650   1,600    1,070   2,160  0         sm           0
~iei OpratingExpense      4,741   5,6661   6,466    7,421   6,020   6,800   0,070    6,97000  10,400  11:100  u1",m  12,m
Total Operating Expense        7,686   8,67   10,21   10   11,771  12,520  1,260   14,60  16,640  10,680  20,580  22,50
OPERATING INCOME               2,062   2,493   2,009   8,964   5,220   6,8O   6,460   6,6O    7,910   11,66    14,670  17,540
Less :     tnt                   600      724     562      211    (26    (1,010)    (600)      0        0   1,100   1,460   1,650
MeAsuGhts                 ~~146    )0     2          30              061                                  0       0%
Income Tax                 (1) 788                 ( 2,800)    (230                   2,8250   2,318   1,w81   2,180   8,180
NET INCOME                626      U6    1,269   4,28   4,09    4,660   4,010   4,400   6,010  9,140  11,260  12,800
Dividndb        o17                       178     175      197      221     220      220      220     220                       220
Surplus carried forward         s65       862   1,116   4,060   5,677   4,440   4,500   4,260   5,860   6,020   11,00    12,140
Averge rnt fixed assets :      6,686   0,56    6,02      7,175   7,416   3,009   9,150  10,265  18,970  26,805   44,615   54,120
Rate of Retuen ()   (a)         21.6    26.1    20.8    21.2    40.6    46.1    46.0    40.6    40.1    88.2    26.6    20.3
Operating Ratio (t)   (b)       76.7    7.4    08.2    78.6   609.         66.2    67.5    62.6    54.2    61.6    60.1    52.2
"M.te 2  !ope?tiin 9    om - taxes)/(aver   net fIxed assets)
{DJ tto  eoSt OTsales)/(gros  arg n)
A0.
w1 



INDIA
INIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
BALANCE SHSET (FYs 64-95)
(In MIIo In Re)
ACTUAL                                                 PROJECTION
Fiscal Year Ending  /a1          1964 1--     5     1986     1967     1966     1989 1-90          1991     1992     1998      1994     1996
ASSETS
Fi xed Asset                    13,221   14,916   17,361   19,786   21 ,66    2,190 2o6 480  82 580   42,420   70,780   66 ,60  10280so
Less: Accumulated Depreciation   6,780    8,184   10,515   12,452   14,812   16,5690   16,740   21,650   25,860   81,210   86,670   48.710
Not F;xed Asset                  6,491    6,664    7,065    7,264    ?,66    6,610    9,690   10,660   17,060   89,550   49,660   66,s60
Capital Work In Progros          2,160.   2,774    2,447    2,972    8,270    8,850    5,750   16,720   85,180   82,450   88,640   82,500
Investmt                             5         5   6        5    5,406   11,926   17,980    4,940   760      760      760       760      760
Current Assts
Cash an Bankis                    167       917      751      627      697      780       790      640      900      960    1,080     1,090
Account receivables             2,629    8,188    2,807    2,867    8,458    4,820    4,950    5,680    6,400    7,260    3,200    9,240
Inventorias                    18,221   14,667   20,762   18,282   1 ,691   28 240   26 590   80,800   84,890   890           ,640
Other current assets            8,207    1,982    8,606    8.696    6,976    6,240    6,760    7,220    7,720    6,260    6,800    9,870
Total Current Assets         19,214   20,639   27,84s   25,422   26,721   34,580   89,060   48,990   49,410   55,520   62,090   69.840
TOTAL ASSETS               27,869   80,001   1,1S85   41,083  51,484   64,420   69,460   74,860  102,860  128,280  146,170  161,160
=   _==  =G== e==== =_=  _=   _=_   =_=                                                               =-
LIABILITIES A EQUITY
Share Capital                    1 288    1 288    1 288    1 288    1 288       280    1,280    21280    1 280    1 280    1,280    1 280
Reserves and Surplus             6,869    7,082    6,149   12,284   16,110   20,550   25,140   29,400   84,760   48,720   54,760  86,910
--    --  ------                                                                                    
Tots) Equity                   7,602    8,264    9,881  I18466   17.848   21,760   26,870   80,080   86,010   44,960  56,990  66,140
Long Term Debt                   8,989    8,788    4,181    6,570    9,294   16,770    8,840   12t240   82,280   46,260   47,840  45,840
Current LbilItie
Current logtendet8276    1,2568     8062    1,596    2,112                      1oo                  0        0        0    1,800    2,000
Account paya3ble                9,86    9 976    9 644   11 273   12 119   1 ,150   17 ,80   19 760   22 400   26 450   26,2  382 ,60
S ri                                                                            00ty 7Depos0t0            7 2,876    5,88 2    9,2 86    6,8 97    7,094   77 7,00  ,   7,0  7   7,0   7,000
Provisio  fo aain145                        648      661      62       617    1,700    1,800    1,400    1,200       900    1,900    2,200
ProvisonorDidd                    178       178      17n      197      221      220       220      220      220      220       220      220
Other current liabilities         520       578      556    2,262    2,484    2,700    2,900    8,100    8,800    8,500    8,700    a,900
Total Current Liabilities     16,826   18,008   28,852   22,045   24,647   26,670   29,250   81,460   84,120   8?,070   42,640   47,660
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EqUITY  27,869   80,001   36,864   41,081   51,404   64,420   59,460   74,850  102,860  126,260  146,170  161,160
-==-  -   ===:= ==Z=:=    =
Current Ratio (timq               1.16      1.15     1.17     1.15     1.16     1.29      1.84     1.40     1.45     1.50      1.45     k.45
Debt/Equity RatioR                84.13 8X   1       3O1.13 0   34.7X    89.7X    4i.2111  12.7X    2e.6x    47.2!    50.7!    46.5!    41.o0
Note: Total asset. may not qual liabilities A equity due to rounding .
1%



INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS (FYs 84-96)
(In Million Rs)
ACTUAL                                                     PROJECTION
Flscal Year Ending 3/31:        1984        1986     1988     1987     1988     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993     1994     1995
______                                                --     ----   -------   -------   -------   -------   -------
SOURCES
Operating Income                 2,062    2,493    2,039    3,954    5,220    6,830    8,450    8,830    7,910   11,880   14,870   17,340
Add:
Depreciation           1,828    1,847    2,281    2,025    1,996    2,280    2,180    2,910    3,710    6,860    6,880    8,880
Non - Operating Revenues
Adjustments            23     (188)     386    2,882        93        8        0        0        0       30       (20)      10
Invorost Rocoived     112      127      177      348    1,163    1,010       800        0        0        0        0        0
GROSS INTERNAL CASH GENERATION   4,023    4,079    4,882    9,207    8,481    9,108    9,210    9,740   11,820   17,740   20,610   24,230
Now Long Term Loan     2,488    3,070    1,854        0    5,320    8,588         0    8,400   19,990   14,030    1,080      (700)
TOTAL SOURCES          8,609    7,179    8,616   13,728   13,781   17,692    9,210   18,140   31,810   31,770   21,590   23,630
=     -=-==                                             ====---___.          -                ===:=-        == e          _=
APPLICATIONS
CroitjIExpond7tures:                                                                    1 260    8 400    6,140    1,380       680        0
Other works                    1,865    2,311    2,338    2,880    2,442    3,390    4,390   10,870   21,180   24,280   18,420   14,820
-__ _ _ _-_   _                         -__
Total Expend Tur.k             1,855    2,311    2,338    2,880    2,442    3,390    6,840   17,070   28,300   26,880   18,980   14,820
Investments                          0        0        0    6,400    8,620    8,006  (12,990)  (4,180)        0        0         0        0
Debt Service
Interest Paid                     802      851      739      55'       885        0        0        0        0    1,110    1,480    1,850
Amoritization                      898    3,276    1,265    3,082    1,696    2,112   10,180         0        0         0        0    1,300
Total Debt Service              1,700    4,127    1,995    3,839    2,481    2,112   10,180         0        0    1,110    1,480    3,160
Taxes                              815      788      862    2,430    1,820    2,180    2,240    2,360    2,310    1,820    2,180    3,130
Dividends                          173      173       173      197      221      220      220      220      220      220       220      220
Inc (Dec) In Working Capital     2,168     (250)   1,380      (819)     497    3,786    3,940    2,880    2,780    3,160       800    2,410
TOTAL APPLICATIONS     6,509    7,149    8,56   13,727   13,781   17,892    9,210   18,140   31,810   31,770   21,590   23,530
~~~=_  -   _=                                           ==                                   ==
Debt Service Ratio (Tims)         2.37     0.99     2.44     2.63      3.41     4.31     0.91     -        -       16.98    14.06      7.89
(a) New long-term loans exclude curront portion of long term debt which has been Inciuded under variations in working capital.
(b) (gross Internal cash generation)/(total debt services)
0*
o 



-76 -                         ANNE 4.3
Page 1 of 2
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LTD. (IOC)
Financial Rate of Return Calculations for Pipe Line Comnonent
1.       The IRR calculations are based on the following assumptions regards
incremental costs and benefits:
(a) Pipe line operations start in 1993, about one year behind IOC
schedule;                          I
(b) Investments include incremental working capital, e.g. average value
of tank and pipe fill as well as the capital cost for the pipe line
investments with corresponding taxes, duties and contingencies;
(c) Annual operating costs are assumed to equal about 2% of capital costs
and exclude interest and depreciation;
(d) The annual products volumes pushed through the pipe line is assumed
to always follow the lowest volume according to IOC's three
alternatives; this is a rather conservative assumption;
(e) Benefits per MT are assumed to equal the sales price of products
(less excise duties, distribution costs and all other costs to get
the products from the pipe line terminal to the consumer), less the
CIF per MT (plus port charges, normal taxes and duties etc.);
(f) The useful life of the pipe line is assumed to 20 years and no scrap
or other residual value has been considered; and,
(g)  All nominal cash flows have been deflated by 7% p.a. in FYs9'-93,
6.5% p.a. in FYs94-96, and 6% p.a. in FYs97-98. Thereafter operating
costs and benefits are assumed to remain constant in real terms.
2.       Based on the above assumptions, the following cash streams were
projected, all expressed in Rs million at 1990 puwcchasing power:



- 77-                           ANNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 2
Deflation  Capital  Operating                Net
Period    Year      Factor    Costs     Costs   Benefits   Benefits
1      1990      1.00         877       0           0        (877)
2      1991      0.93       3,962       0           0      (3,962)
3      1992      0.87       2,014       0           0     (2,014)
4      1993      0.81         919     150       4,050      2,981
5      1994      0.77         670     180       4,620      3,770
6      1995      0.72           0     180       5,040      4,860
7      1996      0.68           0     180       5,400      5,220
8      1997      0.64           0     180       5,400      5,220
9      1998      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
10      1999      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
11      2000      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
12      2001      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
13      2002      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
14      2003      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
15      2004      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
16      2C05      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
17      2006      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
18      2007      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
19      2008      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
20      2009      0.60           0     180       5,400      5,220
The above cash streams give an IRR of 43.7%
3.       A sensitivity analysis was carried out as follows:
IRR
Capital costs +10%                         40.6%
Operating costs +10%                       43.6%
Benefits -10%                              40.2%



- 78-                         ANNEX 4.4
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
INDIA OIL CORPORATION LTD. (IOC)
Rate of Return Calculations for Single Buoy Mooring System (SBM)
1.       The SBM is mainly justified on security of supply grounds.  A
complete break-down of the existing SBM at Salaya would, in FY93, reduce the
supply of petroleum products equivalent to 11.2 million mtpa of crude for
about three months at high financial costs. The IRR calculations are based on
the following assumptions regarding costs and benefits attributable to this
project component:
(a)  capital costs include taxes, duties and contingencies for the SBM
and necessary offshore pipeline investments; the works will be
completed over t'hree years in FY90-92;
(b) benefit est!Aates are based on expected financial losses in case
of damage to the buoy, which is expected to happen once every 33
years (such damage would stop supplies for 15 days) and damage to
the plem of the buoy, which is expected to happen every 66 years
(such damage would interrupt supplies for 90 days). Emergency
supplies would last for about five days and only a fraction of
petroleum supplies could be supplied by alternative means of
transport, e.g., by rail and road within 90 days. The financial
loss would equal the sales price of products (less distribution
costs, taxes and duties) minus the crude cost (plus normal port
charges and duties) and direct variable refining costs, e.g.,
chemicals and power. Plants, wages and indirect refinery costs
have been considered fixed for a 90-day period;
(c)  the installation of a second SBM would also reduce ship waiting
time (see Annex 6.1), valued at US$13,900/day;
(d) the useful life of the SBM is estimated at 15 years and no
residual value has been considered; and
(e) nominal cash flows have been deflated by 7% in FY91-39 and are
assumed to remain constant in real terms thereafter.



- 79                         AMUE  4.4
Page 2 of 2
2.       Based on above assumptions, the following cash streams were
projected, all expressed in Rs millions at FY90 purchasing power:
Capital      Operating         Benefits              Net
FY           Cost          Cost        Waiting Time  Supply    Benefits
90            70                              -           -           (70)
91           102                              -           -          (102)
92            52                -             -           -           (52)
93             -               21             9          58            46
94-07                         21              9          59            47
The above cash streams result in an IRR of 15.8%.
3.       A sensitivity analysis was carried out as follows:
(a)  Capital Cost +10%                      14.2%
(b) Operating Cost +10%                     15.0%
(c)  Benefits -10%                          10.0%



- Po -                       Annex 4.5
Page 1 of 2
INDI
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
INDIAN OIL CORPORATION (IOC)
Financial Rate of Return Calculations for the
Catalytic Reformers at Barauni and Digboi
1.       The IRR calculations are base don the following assumptions regarding
incremental costs and benefits:
(a)  capital expenditures are based on IOC/EIL's feasibility studies
and include taxes, duties and contingencies; the construction
period is estimated at four years;
(b)  quantities of feed (naphtha) and output (gasoline, C1C2, H2 and
C3C4) are based on the feasibility study;
(c)  product values are based on mid-November 1988 border prices
adjusted for freight; naphtha $109/mt, gasoline $187/mt, C1C2
$85/mt, H2 $90/mt and C3C4 $165/mt;
(d)  the useful life of the reformers is estimated at 15 years and no
residual values have been considered; and
(e)  nominal cash flows have been deflated by 7% in FY91-93 and 6.5% in
FY94-95; thereafter costs and benefits are assumed to remain
constant in real terms.
2.       Based on assumptions, the following cash streams were projected, all
expressed in Rs million at FY90 purchasing power:
Barauni                         Dib_oi
Deflation   Cap.     Op.           Net       Cap.   Op.          Net
FY     Factor     Cost    Cost   Ben.   A...   Cost .Cost  Ben.   Ben.
90        1.00      15       -      -     (15)       10    -       -    (10)
91        0.93      73      -       -     (73)       23    -       -    (23)
92        0.87     368       -      -    (368)      144    -       -   (144)
93        0.81     308       -      -    (308)      117    -       -   (117)
94        0.77       -     11      85      74         -   4      32      28
95-08     0.72       -     21    172      151         -    9     66      57
Corresponding ZRR:                       14.3%                         13.9%



- 81 -
Page 2 of 2
3.       A sensitivity analysis was carried out as follows:
Bara-uni       Digboi
IRR           IRR
Capital Cost +10%                  12.7%          12.4%
Op. Cost +10%                      14.1%          13.7%
Benefits -10%                      12.3%          12.0%



- 82 -
- 82 -                ~~~~ANNEX 4.6i
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PEPTOLEUN TRANSPORT PROJECT
INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LTD (IOC)
Financial Rate of Return Calculations for the
Distributed Digital Control System (DDCS)
1.       The IRR calculations are based on the following assumptions regards
incremental costs and benefits:
(a)  Capital costs include taxes and duties and contingencies;
(b)  The DDCS will have a lower operating cost than currently used
pneumatic control system. Therefore, no operating costs have been
considered; neither have cost saving compared with current systems
been considered;
(c)  Benefits are based on projected increase in distillate recovery and
reduction in fuel consumption and losses resulting from conversion to
the DDCS, valued at the import parity prices;
(d)  The useful life of the DDCS is assumed to be 15 years and no residual
value has been considered; and
(e)  All nominal cash flow have been deflated by 78 in FYs 91-93, 6.5% FYs
94-95; thereafter, benefits are assumed to remain constant in near
terms.
2.       Based on the above assumptions, the following cash streams were
projected expressed in Rs million at FY90 purchasing power:
Deflation      Capital                       Net
FY            Factor        Costs        Benefits      Benefits
90            1.00             88             -           (88)
91            0.93            381             -          (381)
92            0.87            361             -          (361)
93            0.81            396             -          (396)
94            0.77            434            30          (414)
95-05         0.72              -           733            733
The above cash streams give an IRR of 27.2%.



- 83 -                         ANNEX 4.6
Page 2 of 2
3.       A sensitivity analysis was carried out as follows:
Capital cost + 10%                                      25.1%
Benefits     - 10%                                      37.3%
I
I



- 84 -                       Annex 4.7
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
INDIAN OIL CORPORATION (IOC)
Financial Rate of Return Calculations for the Haldia Lube Revamp
1.       The IRR calculations are based on the following assumptions regarding
the incremental costs and benefits:
(a) capital expenditures include the sulphur plant and are based on
IOC's feasibility study and include taxes and duties (about Rs
65.0 million) and contingencies (33%); the revamp would be
completed in three years and start to earn revenues in the fourth
year;
(b) the demand for industrial lubes will increase by 5% p.a. and will
substantially exceed domestic supplies;
(c) the Haldia revamp will result in increased production of lubes (60
mtpa) and diesel (196 mtpa); the production of fuel oil will
decrease (-91 mtpa), as well as kerosene (-70 mtpa);
(d) the incremental lube production has been valued at the equivalent
of US$275/ut, fuel oil at US$81/mt, kerosene at US$163/mt and
diesel at US$153/mt, which reflect estimated CIF prices, Bombay;
those prices are also close to the ex-refinery prices;
(e) the increase in value of output base don (b) and (c) is Rs 164
million p.a., at FY90 price levels; incremental operating costs
(chemicals, consumables, wages, maintenance, insurance, etc.) is
estimated at Rs 21.5 million p.a. The sulphur revenues are only
expected to cover the operating cost of the sulphur plant;
(f) the useful life of the revamp is estimated at 15 years and no
residual value has been considered; and
(g)  nominal cash flow have been deflated by 7% in FY91-93 thereafter,
operating costs and benefits are assumed to remain constant in
real terms.



- 85 -                          A .7
Page 2 of 2
2.       Based on above assumptions, the following cash steams were projected,
all expressed in Rs million at FY90 purchasing power:
Deflation    Capital     Operating                     Net
EX        Factor     _Cost           coRst     Benefita      Benefits
90         1.00        49.0          -            -             (49.0)
91         0.93       200.0          -            -           (200.9)
92         0.87       151.0         10.0          -           (161.0)
93-08      0.81         -           21.5        164.0          142.5
The above cash streAms result in an IRR of 28.1%.
3.       A sensitivity analysis was carried out as follows:
Capital cost +10%                    25.8%
Operating cost +10%                  27.7%
Benefits -10%                        25.1%



SupplyIDemo"rd Balance of Major Products In
North-West and Xovali-Kendla-Okha ReaLona. 1988-2005
('000 tons)
1988      1990       1991       122Z      1191 199794                                 2000      2005
Demand             11,269    13,058    14,034    15,108    16,252    17,479    18,807    21,295    25,174    33,023
Production          8,389      8,475      8,595     8,545      9,605      9,315    11,974    13,526    13,526    13,526
Deficit            (2,880)   (4,583)   (5,439)   (6,513)   (6,647)   (8,164)   (6,833)   (7,769)  (11,648)  (19,497)                                               I
Supplies fron
Oter Regions    1,023       1,648     2,097      2,082      1,468      1,623     1,726      2,243      3,050      4,773                                        0%
Supplies to
Other Regions      (323)       (10)       (11)       (11)     (79S)      (531)       (38)      (14)       (15)       (20)
Net Deficit to
be Supplied
tbroush Xandla  (2,180)   (2,945)   (3,353)   (4,442)   (5,974)   (7,072)   (5,145)   (5,540)   (8,613)  (14,744)
Mode of Supply
Plpellne            -          -         -          -        5,661      6,626     4,502      4,838      7,151    12,147
Rail              1,751      2,744     3,140      4,214         69        182       354        386      1,045      2,118
Road                429        201       213        228        244        264       289        316        367        479
Source;  GOI, Report of the Committee on Supply Measures, Januasy 1988, and OIC.
i-u'



- 87-                             ANME 5.2
Page 1
strolu-m      _ t Pwojest
Isole-auemal  .sott1i  to  mb  CGot of *.1l 2r9 eport hlteraatie
Tap-off point         614be        tat  sUeagm       U * rt    ernal
*tt toal uwa mt
ovim                moey"&l    EmIt    AA1*   EAol.  Km1-
destimtos           Sabemtt  Jodhpur   Jaipur   Bsw s  t  artal
Dl tmae An Om                          625     a0      1130      1075
Costiten CUe)              53.2    141.2    167.6    236.2    209.2
Te*                                                                   otal Coat of
o s    --------------- bro puts I 000 ta--------- 3-1t  _rnpot
Hash 31                                                        Total   as Slilton
19S3          231       72C      679       309     3521    3660        10tU
1994            0       293      722       530     4224    60O0        121$
1605          286       637      790       $92     2017    4302         *a
199           232      a90       045       65      1453   4107          738
160           299       94       002       67      2012    "SO          603
1996          215      1002      936       720     2319    3512        1017
1999           51      1039     1012       767     sill    ooo         1154
200              0      304     1072       608     3816    6000        1212
2001            0         0      726       64      4420    6000        1240
2002            0         0        0       860     5140    6000        1278
2003            0         0        0        63     3917    6000        17
2004            0         0        0         0     "o0    6000         1
2005            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1233
2006             0        0        0         0     6000    6000        1233
2007            0         0        a         0     6000    600         15
200S            0         0        0         0       O000    o00       1235
2009             0        0        0         0     600    6000         1s
2010            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1253
2011            0         0        0         0     6000   6o00         1255
2012            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1s
201S            0         0        a         0     6000    6000        1233
2014             0        0        0         0     6000    6000        1233
201s                      0        0         0     600    6000         125s
2016            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1255
2017            0         0        0         0      000    6000        1233
2018            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        12s
2019            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1
2020            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1253
2021            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1253
2022            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1233
2022            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1233
2024            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1253
2025            0         0        0         0     6000    6000        1233
2am0                      0                  0o00            0         15
mt"  1. atmal "ims. Sim3ua fhe SW poset  e_.
S. 3*1  dietam. sam   rdtim of uustla  dietmee to uatbm
Oujarat ant Rajeathan by 40Om  follo"la  coervorbn of tC to 3W.
S. Ra1  tleo tano on RIS  tudY of Nov 1967 for Luthxa Ccomttee, updated.



-88-                          AM 15.3
Page
ADOA
Petrolem Trespot Project
KAmdla-Xwml  etlesUm: Pro_u_t Los. Avoide
Ytar       Volume      Total      Value of
kde    ftrasnetd    Value V1WduWe Losses
Narch 31   Cmlli to#)  (RJ mill)    (as Mill)
1995         5.7       10188       35.7
1994          6.0      10600       37.8
1995          4.5     6105.0       25.4
1996          4.1     7592.6       25.9
199           4.6     8710.2       30.5
1996         5.5      9921.6       34.7
1999          6.0      10800       37.S
2000          6.0      10800       37.8
2001          6.0      10800       37.6
2002          6.0      10800       37.6
2005          6.0      10800       37.8
2004          6.0      10600       $7.8
2005          6.0      10600       37.8
2006          6.0      10800       37.6
2007          6.0      10800       37.6
2008          6.0      10600       37.6
2009          6.0      10800       37.8
2010          6.0      10600       37.8
20:.1         6.0      10600       37.8
2012          6.0      10600       37.8
2013          6.0      10600       37.6
2014          6.0      10600       57.8
2015          6.0      10800       37.8
2016          6.0      10800       37.8
2017          6.0      10800       37.8
2018          6.0      lOO0        37.8
2019          6.0      10800       37.6
2020          6.0      10600       57.8
2021          6.0      10800       37.6
2022          6.0      10800       37.8
2025          6.0      10600       37.8
2024          6.0      10800       37.8
2025          6.0      10600       37.8
2026          6.0      lOO0        57.6



_89 _
-8-AkM 5.4
Page 1
INDIA
Petroleum Transport Project
Xagrnl-UbatiMa Secttont  OonomLao Wot of ReUl trasort Alternative
Tap-off polit       Sangrur  Shatl"ud
Alt ral lnvansat
oangnL            Xaruel     Arual
desttnatie        Ptlela  tKtkopura
Distsae In ksm         140         229
Costiton (Rs)         64.6        78.4
Throuahputs in 000 tons        Total      Produe
Year nding    ---------------------------   Rall Costs  Losses
Harch 31                           Total    Rs .ll      as oil
1994       608         609     1217     87.1          7.7
1995       656         657     1313     95.9          8.3
199        703         704     1407    100.6          8.9
1997       748         752    1500    107.3           9.5
1998       702         798     1500    107.9          9.5
1999       654         846     1500    108.6          9.5
2000       603         897     1500    109.3          9.5
2001       550         950     1500    110.0          9.5
2002       495        1005     1500    110.6          9.5
2003       437        1063     1500    111.6          9.5
2004       575        1125     1500    112.4          9.5
2005       309        1191     1500    113.4          9.5
2006       240        1260     1500    114.3          9.5
2007       166        1334     1500    115.3          9.5
2008        S6        1412     1500    116.4          9.5
2009         6        1494     1500    117.5          9.5
2=10         0        151'0    1500    117.6          9.5
2011         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2012         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2013         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2014         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2015         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2016         0        1500     1500    17.6           9.5
2017         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2018         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2019         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2020         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2021         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2022         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2023         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2024         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2025         0        1500     1500    117.6          9.5
2026         0        1500     1500    117.1          9.5



- 90 -                     ANLE   5.5
lDWA                         Page 1
Petrole   TranpoGt Project
___________________________
Noonoo Evaluation of landl.-Rhatlnd, Product Pipelines Kandle-Karal Section
(Re million)
---------------Central Anhayis ----------------------   -----------Senstivtty TSt ----------
Year     - --Cost* ------   -------nefits-------                 -------------Net Bfits-------------
eding             i4at. &  Avoied    Reduced             Neot     f Costs  If Dcend   If C=*pletion
ar 31   Capital Operating RALL Costs Prod Losaes  Benefits         +101   Growth -251 Delayed 2 Years
1990       353.4                                      -353.4    -3S8.7        -353.4       -176.7
1991     2650.4                                      -2650.4   -2915.4       -2650.4       -706.8
1992       530.1                                      -530.1    -583.1        -530.1       -883.5
1993                 137.3      1085.5         35.7   983.9       983.9        752.3       -883.5
1994                 139.7      1212.6         37.8  1111.7    1111.7          942.5       -883.5
1995                 132.5       827.7         28.4   723.6       723.6        410.0        723.6
1996                 130.7       738.0         25.9   633.1       633.1        282.0        633.1
1997                 133.9       883.3         30.5   779.9       779.9        364.5        779.9
1998                 136.7      1016.9         34.7   914.9       914.9        473.4        914.9
1999                 138.7      1153.9         37.8  1053.0    1053.0          615.7       1053.0
2000                 138.7      1211.6         37.8  1110.7    1110.7          791.9       1110.7
2001                 198.7      1247.9         37.8  1147.0    1147.0         1021.2       1147.0
2002                 138.7      1278.2         37.8  1177.3    1177.3         1177.3       1177.3
2003                 138.7      1257.2         37.8  1156.3    1156.3         1156.3       1156.3
2004                 138.7      k255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2005                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2006                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2007                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2008                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2009                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2010                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2011                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2012                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2013                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2014                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2015                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2016                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2017                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2012                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2019                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2020                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
2021                 138.7      1255.0         37.8  1154.1    1134.1         1134.1       1154.1
2022                 138.7      1235S.0        37.8  1154.1    1154.1         1154.1       1154.1
Rate of Return      22.2Z      20.62        17.8        19.52
Notes Capital costs eclude storage facillites, which are Coaon to both alternatives.



- 91 -                     ACNEX  5.6
Page 1
Petroleum Transport Project
Economic Evaluation of Randla-BhatStda Product Pipeline: Karnal-Bhetlnda, Seetlon
<Rs million)
------------------Central AnalysLi-------------------   ----------SensLtLvLty Teso ----------
Year     ------Costs-------  -------Benefits --------              -------------Nt Beaefits------------
ending             MaLnt. &  Avoided       Reduced        Net      If Costs   If Demand   If Completion
Mar 31   Capital Operating Rail Costs  Prod Losses  Benefits         +10     Groawth -252 Delayad 2 Years
1 2       233.2                                       -233.2    -256.5       -233.2         -58.3
1993       349.7                                       -349.7    -384.7       -349.7        -11.5.7
1994                  11.2         87.1      7.7         83.5       83.5        73.5        -2)4.0
1995                  12.0         93.9      8.3         90.2       90.2        77.7        -174.9
1996                  14.5        100.6      8.9         95.0       95.0        80.0          95.0
1997                  15.4        107.3      9.5        101.4      101.4        83.8         101.4
1998                  15.9        107.9      9.5        101.5      101.5        88.8         101.5
1999                  16.0        108.6      9.5        102.1      102.1        94.6         102.1
2000                  16.1        109.3      9.5        102.7      1 2.7       100.7         102.7
2001                  16.1        110.0      9.5        103.4      103.4       103.4         103.4
2002                  16.1        110.8      9.5        104.1      104.1       104.1         104.1
2003                  16.1        111.6      9.5        104.9      104.9       104.9         104.9
2004                  16.1        112.4      9.5        105.8      105.8       105.8         105.8
2005                  16.1        113.4      9.5        106.7      106.7       106.7         106.7
2006                  16.1        114.3      9.5        107.7      107.7       107.7         107.7
2007                  16.1        115.3      9.5        108.7      108.7       108.7         108.7
2008                  16.1        116.4      9.5        109.7      109.7       109.7         109.7
2009                  16.1        117.5      9.5        110.9      110.9       110.9         110.9
2010                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0      111.0       111.0         111.0
2011                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0      111.0       111.0         111.0
2012                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0      111.0       111.0         111.0
2013                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0      111.0       111.0         111.0
2014                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0     111.0        111.0         111.0
2015                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0      111.0       111.0         111.0
2016                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0     111.0        111.0         111.0
2017                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0      111.0       111.0         111.0
2018                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0      111.0       111.0         111.0
2019                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0      111.0       111.0         111.0
2020                  16.1        117.6      9.5        11 .0    111.0         111.0         111.0
2021                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0      111.0       111.0         111.0
2022                  16.1        117.6      9.5        111.0      111.0       111.0         111.0
Rate of Return        15.82     14.42        14.72         14.72
Note: Capital costs exclude storage faclILties, vhlch are comnon to both alternatlves.



- 92                                         ANNEX 5.7
Page 1
INDIA
Petroleum Transport Project
Economic Evaluation of Kandla-lhatlnda Product Pipeline
(Rs million)
---------------Central AnalysS--------------------  ----------- ensitivity Tests-----------
Year    ------Costs-------  ------Benefits -------           --------------Net Benefits-------------
ending            Maint. &  AvoLded    Reduced       Net    If Costs   If Demand   If Completion
Her 33  Capital Operating Rail Costs Prod Loss Benefits    +1OX    Growth -25  Delayed 2 Years
1990      353.4        0          0.0       0.0  -353.4    -388.7        -353.4        -176.7
1991     2650.4        0          0.0       0.0  -2650.4   -2915.4    -2650.4          -706.8
1992      763.3        0          0.0       0.0  -763.3    -839.6        -763.3        -941.8
1993      349.7   137.3        1085.5      35.7   634.2       599.2       402.8       -1029.2
1994          0   149.9        1299.7      45.5  1195.3    1195.3        1016.0       -1087.5
1995          0   144.5         921.6      36.6   813.8       813.8       487.7         548.7
1996          0   145.2         838.6      34.7   728.1       728.1       367.0         728.1
1997          0   149.3         990.7      39.9   881.3       881.3       448.3         881.3
1998          0   152.6        1124.9      44.2  1016.4    1016.4         562.3        1016.4
1999          0   154.7        1262.5      47.3  1155.1    1155.1         710.2        1155.1
2000          0   154.8        1320.9      47.3  1213.3    1213.3         892.6        1213.3
2001          0   154.8        1357.9      47.3  1250.4    1250.4        1124.6        1250.4
2002          0   154.8        1389.0      47.3  1281.5    1281.5        1281.5        1281.5
2003          0   154.8        1368.8       47.3  1261.2    1261.2       1261.2        1261.2
2004          0   154.8        1367.4      47.3  1259.9    1259.9        1259.9        12S9.9
2005          0   154.8        1368.3      47.3  1260.8    1260.8        1260.8        1260.8
2006          0   154.8        1369.3       47.3  1261.7    1261.7       1261.7        1261.7
2007          0   154.8        1370.3       47.3  1262.7    1262.7       1262.7        1262.7
2008          0   154.8        1371.4       47.3  1263.8    1263.8       1263.8        1263.8
2009          0   154.8        1372.5       47.3  1264.9    1264.9       1264.9        1264.9
2010          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2011          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2012          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2013          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2014          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2015          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2016          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2017          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2018          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2019          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2020          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2021          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
2022          0   154.8        1372.6       47.3  1265.0    1265.0       1265.0        1265.0
Rate of Return      21.61      20.01      17.52          19.02
Note: Capital costs exclude storage facilities, which are coenon to both alternatives.



- 93 -
5ne   .8
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
PETROLEUM TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimation of Economic Benefits for SBM
1.       Three types of benefit have been qurntified: increased security of
supply, savings in ship time, and savings in cargo time (inventory cost).
Increased securitq of suIply
2.       There are two types of possible breakdown or damage to the
existing SBM: to the buoy and/or hoses, rendering the SBM unserviceable for
15 days, or to the plem (the underwater connection to the submarine pipe),
rendering the SBM unserviceable for 90 days. Industry experience suggests
that th- probability of these events occurring in any one year is 3% and
1.5% respectively. The provision of a second SBM would virtually eliminate
these risks, as the probability of both SBNs being rendered unserviceable
at the same time is so slight it can be ignored.
3.       In the event of any interruption to supply via the SBM, there are
sufficient inventories to cover 5 days' requirements, so the net days of
interrupted supply are 10 and 85 respectively. For a 10 day interruption,
it is assumed infeasible to arrange an alternative source of supply. The
loss to the economy can be taken as the retail sales value of the product
sales foregone, representing a conservative estimate (ignoring consumers
surplus) of the value consumers attach to the product. Against this loss,
however, the nation would have saved on the corresponding volume of crude,
so this has to be deducted. By 1993, when the second SBM would be in
service, the expected volume of crude handled by the facility will be 11.2
MHTPA or 30,700 tons/day. The retail value of the refinery output mix
(after allowing for production losses) is Rs 4,000 per ton while the
average cif cost of crude is taken as Rs 1,600 per ton. Thus the cost of a
day's loss of production is (4,000-1,600) x 30,700 - Rs 73.68 million, or
Rs 737 million for the 10 day interruption.
4.       For the longer interruption to operations occasioned by damage to
the plem, it is assumed that after 10 days (at a cost as above), an
alternative source of products could be arranged, e.g., by purchasing on
the spot market. For days 11-85 of this event, the cost of the
interruption is taken to be the cif cost of product imports (Rs 2,200 per
ton), from which must be deducted the savings in crude consumption. The
cost of this event thus becomes:
first 10 days                                  Rs   737 million
days 11-85      (2,200-1,600) x 30,700 x 75 -  Rs 1.382 million
Rs 2,119 million



- 94 -                       Annex 5.8
Page 2 of 3
5.       Taking into account the respective probabilities, the expected
annual cost of the risks avoided is thus
damage to buoy/hoses    .03 x 737            -  Rs   22.1 million
damage to plem           .015 x 2,119        -  Rs   31.8 million
Rs   53.9 million
Savings in Ship Time
6.       The provision of a second SBM would enable a second vessel to
berth and prepare for discharging while the first SBM is occupied, or while
a vessel is being disconnected and cast off at the first SBM. This
translates into a 17% increase in available berth time, thereby reducing
the berth occupancy rate and thus the queuing factor. For the volume of
traffic expected in 1993, the net saving in ship time is 40 days per annum
(see attached table). At an average daily ship cost in port of Rs 203,000
this translates into annual savings of Rs 8.1 million. Approximately 20%
of the imports, which account for 30% of the crude handled at Salaya, are
delivered by foreign vessels   It is assumed that only 50% of the time
savings to these vessels is passed on to India, so the net savings in ship
cost accruing to India are Rs 7.7 million per annum.
Savings in Cargo Time
7.       The average parcel size is 70,000 tons, and the average CIF value
of the crude is taken as Rs 1,600 per ton. Taking an interest rate of 12%
per annum, the value of cargo time savings associated with saving 40 ship
days per annum is given by:
70,000 tons x Rs 1,600 x 40 x 0.12 - Rs 1.47 million per annum
365
As imported crude is purchased FOB, all these savings in inventory costs
accrue to India.



-95 -
ANNEX 5.8
Page 3 of 3
MAD
Additional Mat Seag"
otal al  De" without ld Vithl hiitiml -
10*6           10*7           19U8           1995
A. SAWmC D UM  ('000 TOWS)                        10,130          9,5t0          10,350         11,200
B. WSini PROJECT
1 Ter.inl (_mbr)                                    1              1              1               1
2. Trffic (t'00 taow)                          10.130          9,510         10,"0          11,200
S. Aaa1 .hlp borth de   rquired                   170            161            174            1i
4. _*1l .hp berth days available                  320            520            320             320
S. Dseth o     _cancy rate (2)                     53             50             54             59
6. Waiting tim queuing factors                   0.45           0.39           0.47           0.60
7. Annal total shlp port dasy
a. Aetualhp berth days                        170            161            1U4            i
b. Obp waiting days                            77            6$                            11
Total ship port day.                   247            224            256            501
C. mm  PoJnC
1. TSumrl (_uuhr)                                   1              1              1              2
2. Traffie ('000 tONe)                         10,1U0          9,50          10,350         11,200
S. Anl .hlp berth do" requIrd                     170            161            174           1i
.* mal .hlp berth day. avilable                   320            Sa0            320            n57
5.  eth ocaupinny rvat  (2)                        55             50             54             50
6. waitIn  tim  quein  factors                   0.45           0."9           0.47           0.39
7. Annual toml .bip port day.s
a. Aatual ehip berth day                      170            161            174            10
b. aip waiting days                            77             65             82             73
Total ship port days                   247            214            256            261
Wotes (t)   anaal chtp berth days required -  trafficltheorzetiol daily cap-city per berth.
(Ui)  eanual .hlp berth day available - umber of berths n berth operating de" per yer.
(1ii) berth occupancy rate - annual .hlp berth day. required I anul .hip berth days available.
(iW) waiting tim queinng factor. - from Port Develop ent, U-ClAD 1978, page 209 and 210 ad
Berth throughput, uNClD 1975, Un, 3ev tork, pW    33.
(v)  aeual ship walting day. - an_ual shlp berth required x waiting tim  queen  factor.
NW-



INDIA
Petroleum Transport Project
___________________________
Economic Evaluation of SBM
(Rs million)
--------------------Central Analyals ---------------------   -----Senitivity Test 1----   ----SSesitivity Test 2-----
Year            Costs-------   --------Beneflts   -                             (Costs +1Ox)                  (Delay of 2 years)
Ending               Maint. &    Ship   Cargo   Security       yet                             get                            Net
March 31   Capital  operating   Time   Time    of Supply   Benefits   Costs   Benefits   Benefits   Costs   Benefits   Benefits
_______ -------      ---------   ----       ____  ---------   --------   -----   _____       --------   -----   _____       --------
1990       40.9                                              -40.9      45.0                -45.0      11.7                 -11.7
1991       46.7                                              -46.7      51.4                -51.4      23.4                 -23.4
1992       29.2                                              -29.2      32.1                -32.1      23.4                -23.4
1993                   16.2     7.?    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       45.3      40.9                -40.9
1994                   16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       45.3      17.4                -17.4
1995                  16.2      7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       43.3      16.2      63.1        46.9
1996                   16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       45.3      16.2      63.1        46.9
1997                   16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       45.3      16.2      63.1        46.9
1998                   16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       45.3      16.2      63.1        46.9
1999                   16.2     7.7    1.5         33.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       45.3      16.2      63.1        46.9
2000                   16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1        45.3     16.2      63.1        46.9
2001                   16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       45.3      16.2      63.1        46.9
2002                   16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       45.3      16.2      63.1        46.9
2003                   16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1        45.3     16.2      63.1        46.9
2004                   16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       45.3      16.2      63.1        46.9
2005                   16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1       45.3      16.2      63.1        46.9
2006                     16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1        45.3     16.2      63.1        46.9
2007                     16.2     7.7    1.5         53.9       46.9      17.8      63.1        45.3     16.2      63.1        46.9
Rate of Return      . 29.12                          26.12                          24.82
Ii.
s-n
*0



MNDIA
Petrolem Transport Project
Economic Evaluation of Catalytic Reformn -s
(Ra million)
Barauni                                Digboi                               Baraunl + Digbol
Year                                                                                         -----------Net Benefits-----------
Ending    Capital   Oper.               Net           Capital  Oper.                net        Central   Costs      CompletLon
March 31     Cost    Cost  Benefits  Benefits            Cost    Cost   Benefits  Beneflts    Analysis   Up 101  Delayed 2 Years
1990       11                           -11             4                          -4           -15       -17      -16
1991       45                           -45            18                         -18           -63       -69      -63
1992      282                          -282           110                        -110          -392      -431     -156
1993      225                          -225            87                         -87          -312      -343     -156
1994                10        8S         75                      4       32        28           103       102     -235
1995                19       172        153                      8       66        58           211       208     -156
1996                19       172        153                      8       66        58          2li        208      103
1997                19       172        153                      8       66        58           211       208      211
1998                19       172        153                      8       66        S8           211       208      211
19"9                19       172        153                      8       66        58           211      208       211
2000                19       172        153                      8       66       5S            211       208      211
2001                19       172        153                      8       66        58           211       208      211
2002                19       172        153                      8       66        58           211       208      211
2003                 19      172        153                      8       66        58           211       208      211
2004                 19      172        153                      8       66        58           211       208      2.1
2005                19       172        153                      8       66        58           211       208      211
2006                19       172        153                      8       66        58           211       9^9      211
2007                19       172        153                      8       66        S8           211       208      211                                la
2008                19       172        153                      8       66        S8           211       208      211                                b
Rate of Return       20.1S                 Rate of Return   _ 19.6Z           19.9S    17.92    16.1S 2
Notes    1.  Capital costs as per project cost table, excluding taxes.
2. Operating costs as per financlal analysis (Annex 4.5), with local
coeponent w.I-#lLed by standard conversion factor of 0.8 to convert



-  98  -                                 Annex 5.11
Page  I
INDIA
Petroleum Transport Project
Economic Evaluation of Distributed Digital Control System
(Rs Million)
Central AnalysLs                                 Sensitivlty Tests
------------Benefit          
Year               Increase in    Reduction                             Net Benefits    Net Benefits
Ending              Distillates   in Fuel OlI    Loss            Net      Vith Costs       Completion
March 31   Costs      Recovery     Consumption   Reduction   Benefits        up 102       Delayed 2 years
1990     50.0                                                -50.0           -55.0        -50.0
1991    215.3                                               -215.3          -236.8       -172.2
1992    204.1                                               -204.1          -224.5       -163.3
1993    223.6                                               -223.6          -246.0       -178.9
1994    229.4           18.7           7.5          1.5     -201.7          -224.6       -155.8
1995                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        -83.9
1996                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        -62.9
1997                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
1998                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
1999                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
2000                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
2001                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
2002                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
2003                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
2004                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
2005                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
2006                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
2007                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
2008                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
2009                   525.8         156.1         51.3      733.1           733.1        733.1
Rate of Return    41.81           39.3X        31.41
Notes:  1.  Based on folloving tbrougbputs of crude oll Ln NTPA: Guwahati 0.85, Baraunl 3.3,
HaldL 2.75, GuJarat 9.5, and Mathura 7.5
2. Assumes 12 increase In distillates recovery, 102 reduction in fuel consumptLon,
and 102 reduction in losses, valued at c.i.f. prices of Rs 2,200, Rs 1225
and Rs 2,200 per tonse.



- 99-                                      Annex 5.12
Page 1
ZUDIA
Petroleum Trsasport Project
Leonmoe gv&lu^tlpn of Ealdia Lube bock
(Rs million)
-C--------Ctral hnAlysi-----------   ------Seuitivity TeSts-----
Tr                                                     --------t Bnfit--------
EndLig      CapLial  Operat.                    8et     With Costs      CopletOn
march 31        Costs    Costa   Senfits   Benefits        up 102      Delaed 2 Years
1990        30.2                           -3.2         -33.2          -30.2
1991       126.6                          -126.6        -139.3          -42.2
1992        32.2      10.0                 -42.2         -46.4          -42.2
1993                  21.5      !64.0      142.5         140.4          -42.2
1994                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          -42.2
l"S                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
1996                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
e    1997                   21.5     164.0       142.5         140.4          142.5
1998                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
1999                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
2000                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
2001                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
2002                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
2003                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
2004                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
2005                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
2006                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
2007                  21.5      164.0      142.5         140.4          142.5
Rate of Return        48.02         44.22          36.12
Notot All coats and befits a  per financial antalysis ( Annex 4.7), except that
taxs hav  been doducted frm capital costs.  Standard convrsion factor of
0.8 has not been applied to operating costs becaus these bhve  substantial
foreign campofent.



em (                                 'Si         r        4      ---                                                                                                                              rur N0omvvovm
<   P A K I S T A N          ). f                                                           P A K I S T APAKISTAN                                   km
-                                                    5                       \t) (/nf
-   -    PUNJAB                 Jullunden,>
\  '~~~~~  > _   SontetP'ur   ,   .    <   0                                                   <>           Lt;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hetie
<                             ~~~~~~~~~~~HIMACHAL PRDS
/N  r   X   \         2        X    \    V  /   X   s        R A J A S T H A N                                                  g                                   s  -  Oso
GUJARAT          \                     i           Abe                                                                          /1 //                                 L                  s      be    is    sea
\iromg5\{--+-<                              = _fO                                                     ]    HARYANA
p                                                                                                                  PAKISTAN P .     !        \ ,                   CNA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UTR NNEIAPALo  
MAHARASHTRAPERADESH   TRNPR POET\  ' ,  K0DEW 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADR
PROPOSED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINE AND CRUDE OIL SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                                                rrA)        r                          ,ro bnl
PROPOSED:                                                                           EtlStlNG;^KIrKt
P.Pmi,,g stWior:O Ssoe Soi                                                          Produh Pipilim-.     M-h\                                                                           -    
1 r4                            C    T-riml Sfti-n                            --   Cmda Pipali                         OD   NoSioro CopitoLAr1                                                              REFINERIES AND
i    EKpomi- Lor mfirg wion    rti  singlBruy mwoir                                   RfSei-i-                               Solod U.ion4TrrhiorrB-M-ioe,                          Oeh0b        S        ACR INLAND PIPELI
n D.liv-y Stwi-n                      Rfiner (10C)                                I     KC__  Ire lAol-3ud-rios.i                                                                                j
0  Orherr                                                                                   / SRI IAeKA~~rm~} 
INDDAN    OCEAN
NPVEMI



