Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3044 IN
                   (Petroleum Transport Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED
                     Dated September 11, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3044 IN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  11,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and INDIAN OIL
CORPORATION LIMITED (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) India,  acting  by  its President (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from external sources a
loan or loans in  the  amount  of  about $75,000,000 equivalent to
assist in the financing of the Project; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  "Investment Program" means the Borrower's investment and
funding plan for financial years 1990-94.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that  shall  have an aggregate value
equivalent to the amount  of  three  hundred forty million dollars
($340,000,000), being the sum  of  withdrawals  of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan and in  respect of interest and other charges
on the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  a  special account in the State Bank
of  India  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section  2.06  of  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount outstanding
during the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rate
Page  3
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on  the  date   immediately   preceding  each  date
               specified  in  Section   2.06  of  this  Agreement,
               beginning with the  Interest  Period  in which this
               Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of   the  oustanding
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank's
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined   otherwise   than    as   provided   in
               paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of the calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a) The Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the principal
     amount of the  Loan  withdrawn  and  outstanding from time to
     time, at  a  rate  for  each  Quarter  equal  to  the Cost of
     Qualified Borrowings determined  in  respect of the preceding
     Quarter, plus one-half of one percent  1/2 of 1%). On each of
     the dates specified in  Section  2.06  of this Agreement, the
     Borrower shall pay interest  accured  on the principal amount
     outstanding during the  preceding Interest Period, calculated
     at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
          "(b) As  soon  as  practicable  after  the  end  of each
     Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
     of the Cost of Qualified  Borrowings determined in respect of
     such Quarter."
          "(c)  (iii)   'Quarter'   means   a  three-month  period
     commencing on January 1, April  1,  July  1 or October 1 in a
     calendar year."
     (e)  Notwithstanding the provision  of  paragraph (a) of this
Section, the interest rate  for  the Interest Period commencing in
the  first  Semester  of  1989   shall  be  seven  and  sixty-five
hundredths percent (7.65%).
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The  Borrower  shall,  in  consideration of the
Guarantor's  guaranteeing  the  obligations  of  the  Borrower  in
respect of the Loan, enter  into  an agreement satisfactory to the
Bank with the Guarantor,  whereby  the Borrower shall undertake to
pay the Guarantor on June  15  and  December 15 in each year until
the entire principal amount of the Loan and the interest and other
charges thereon have been paid, a  fee on the principal amounts of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding  from  time  to time, at a rate
per annum  stipulated  by  the  Guarantor  in  accordance with the
Page  4
Guarantor's standard procedures for such fees.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
financial, administrative  and  engineering  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial  and  engineering  practices  under  the  supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take adequate precautions in
line with  industry  practices  to  protect  its  workers  and the
environment  during  the  implementation   and  operation  of  the
Project.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   and   the  records  and
               accounts for the Special Account for each financial
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. The Borrower  shall  furnish to the Bank before
December 31 of  each  year  the  Investment  Program  for its next
financial year, and shall prior  to implementation of any addition
thereto which may result in an  increase of $50,000,000 or more in
the funding requirements for  said  financial year, exchange views
with the Bank on the  economic and financial justification of such
addition.
     Section 5.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  take all steps within its power necessary to ensure
               that at all times  its internal cash generation for
               each year shall  be  at  least  2.0  times the debt
               service requirements of its debt for that year;
         (ii)  not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such
               debt, the aggregate  principal  amount  of the debt
               then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
               1.5 times its equity; and
        (iii)  maintain, at all times,  a  ratio of current assets
               to current liabilities of not less than 1.2 times.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means   any  indebtness  of  the
               Borrower maturing by its  terms  more than one year
               after the date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred under: (A) a
               loan contract,  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms  of  payment,  on  the  date,  and to the
               extent,  the  amount   of   such  debt  has  become
               outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B)  a  guarantee agreement, on the
               date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
               been entered into but  only  to the extent that the
Page  6
               guaranteed debt shall be outstanding.
        (iii)  The term "equity" means the aggregate amount of the
               total unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
               and  reserves  not   allocated  to  cover  specific
               liabilities of the Borrower.
         (iv)  The  term  "current  assets"  means  cash, accounts
               receivable  due  within  twelve  months, marketable
               securities, pre-paid  expenses  properly chargeable
               to operating expenses within the next twelve months
               following the date in  which such pre-paid expenses
               were made, and all other assets which could, in the
               ordinary course of business, be converted into cash
               within twelve months.
          (v)  The  term  "current   liabilities"  means  accounts
               payable   within   twelve   months,   income  taxes
               dividends,  bonuses   and   all  other  liabilities
               (including debt)  which,  pursuant  to their terms,
               will  become  due   and   payable  or  could  under
               circumstances then existing  be  called for payment
               within twelve months.
         (vi)  The  term  "internal  cash  generation"  means  the
               aggregate  amount  of  the  gross  revenues  of the
               Borrower  from  all  sources,  less  the  aggregate
               amount of the  operating  expenses of the Borrower,
               including expenses  accountable  to administration,
               maintenance  and  taxes  (or  payments  in  lieu of
               taxes), but  before  provision  for depreciation of
               assets and interest and other charges on debt.
        (vii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirement"  means  the
               aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on debt.
       (viii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of currency of the
               Guarantor, debt payable  in  another currency, such
               valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of  the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  a change shall  have  been  made  in  the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of  the  Borrower  amended  to the date of
this Agreement,  without  the  consent  of  the  Bank, which would
materially  and  adversely  affect   the  financial  condition  or
operations of the Borrower; and
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of any loan  made to the Borrower for
                    the financing of  the  Project shall have been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in  part,  pursuant   to   the  terms  of  the
                    agreement providing therefor, or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
Page  7
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
        (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of  this  paragraph shall not apply
              if the Borrower  establishes  to the satisfaction of
              the Bank  that:  (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
              termination or  prematuring  is  not  caused  by the
              failure  of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of its
              obligations under such  agreement;  and (B) adequate
              funds for the Project  are available to the Borrower
              from  other   sources   on   terms   and  conditions
              consistent  with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
              under this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the  event  specified  in   Section  6.01  (a)  of  this
Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)  the  event  specified  in   paragraph  (b)  (i)  (B)  of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of sub-paragraph (ii) of that paragraph.
                            ARTICLE VII
                            Termination
     Section 7.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The Chairman  of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          The Chairman
          Indian Oil Corporation Limited
          Scope Complex, Core-2
          7 Institutional Area
          Lodhi Road, New Delhi 110003
          India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               OILREFIN                          031-66880
               New Delhi
Page  8
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Equipment,              295,000,000
     materials,
     engineering
     and installa-
     tion:
     (a)  equipment                              100% of foreign
          and                                    expenditures,
          materials                              100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 65% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
     (b)  works                                  70%
(2)  Consultants'             15,000,000         100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Unallocated              30,000,000
                             ___________
          TOTAL              340,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
Page  9
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $20,000,000,  may  be  made  on  account  of  payments made for
expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower in
achieving operational flexibility and improving overall efficiency
in the supply of petroleum products.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Kandla to Bhatinda Pipeline
     The construction of about  1,450  km of product pipeline from
the port of Kandla, Gujarat to Bhatinda, Punjab.
Part B:   Single Buoy Mooring System
     The installation of a  second  single  buoy mooring system at
Salaya, Gujarat.
Part C:   Catalytic Reforming Units
     The designing,  acquisition,  erection  and  commissioning of
catalytic reforming units, together with associated facilities, at
the Barauni and Digboi refineries of the Borrower.
Part D:   Captive Power Plant
     The acquisition  and  installation  of  two  gas turbines for
generation  of  electric  power  at  the  Digboi  refinery  of the
Borrower.
Part E:   Distributed Digital Control Systems
     The installation of distributed  control systems to modernize
instrumentation   and   enhance   process   control   optimization
capabilities of  Guwahati,  Barauni,  Koyali,  Haldia  and Mathura
refineries of the Borrower.
Part F:   Energy Conservation and Yield Optimization
      The carrying out of  a  program  of modification, repair and
replacement of equipment at  Guwahati, Barauni, Koyali, Haldia and
Mathura refineries of the Borrower.
Part G:   Haldia Lube Block
      The expansion of  the  lubrication oil manufacturing complex
at the Haldia refinery of the Borrower.
Part H:   Sulphur Plant
      The designing, acquisition, erection  and commissioning of a
Page  10
sulphur plant at the Haldia refinery of the Borrower.
Part I:   Technical Assistance and Training
          (i)  Carrying out studies  to design energy conservation
               and  yield  optimization   programs  for  Guwahati,
               Barauni, Koyali, Mathura  and  Haldia refineries of
               the Borrower.
         (ii)  Carrying out of  survey  for pipeline corrosion and
               providing  assistance   in   improving  operations,
               maintenance  and   inspection   of  the  Borrower's
               pipeline network.
        (iii)  Carrying out  of  studies  to  identify  and design
               schemes  for  modernization  of  instrumentation at
               Guwahati,  Barauni,  Koyali,   Haldia  and  Mathura
               refineries of the Borrower.
         (iv)  Designing of a staff training program including the
               establishment of  a  Corporate  Management Training
               Institute and development of training curricula for
               said  Institute,  identification  and  provision of
               training aids, for the Borrower's existing training
               centers and appropriate  training opportunities for
               senior level  staff  of  the  Borrower  in  the oil
               industry,  including  process  simulators, training
               aids, computer hardware  and  software, and special
               equipment and instruments  needed  for carrying out
               the pipeline corrosion surveys and tests.
                     *           *            *
     This Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by December 31,
     1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
      December 15, 1994                            6,240,000
      June 15, 1995                                6,480,000
      December 15, 1995                            6,730,000
      June 15, 1996                                6,985,000
      December 15, 1996                            7,255,000
      June 15, 1997                                7,530,000
      December 15, 1997                            7,820,000
      June 15, 1998                                8,115,000
      December 15, 1998                            8,430,000
      June 15, 1999                                8,750,000
      December 15, 1999                            9,085,000
      June 15, 2000                                9,430,000
      December 15, 2000                            9,795,000
      June 15, 2001                               10,170,000
      December 15, 2001                           10,555,000
      June 15, 2002                               10,960,000
      December 15, 2002                           11,380,000
      June 15, 2003                               11,815,000
      December 15, 2003                           12,265,000
      June 15, 2004                               12,735,000
      December 15, 2004                           13,225,000
      June 15, 2005                               13,730,000
      December 15, 2005                           14,255,000
      June 15, 2006                               14,800,000
      December 15, 2006                           15,365,000
      June 15, 2007                               15,955,000
      December 15, 2007                           16,565,000
      June 15, 2008                               17,195,000
Page  11
      December 15, 2008                           17,855,000
      June 15, 2009                               18,530,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to the Loan  on the day
                                           of   prepayment  multi-
                                           plied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Contractors for the:  (i)  laying of Kandla-Bhatinda pipeline
under Part A of the Project;  (ii) installation of the Single Buoy
Mooring System under  Part  B  of  the  Project; and (iii) supply,
erection and commissioning of  the catalytic reforming units under
Part C of the Project will be pre-qualified.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  12
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Items estimated to cost the  equivalent of: (i) $200,000 each
or less may be  procured  under  contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures  on  the  basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from all known suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance  with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and  II  of  the  Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof); and (ii) $100,000 each or less may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Bank,  provided,  however, that the aggregate of
procurement under  the  provisions  of  this  paragraph  shall not
exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Page  13
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part E of the
Project, the  Borrower  shall  employ  consultants  whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms  and  conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $35,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Page  14
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon notice from the
Bank:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as  the  Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request,  refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
