Document of                 FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2402-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
MESITAS HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
November 1, 1978
This decument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1977                August 15, 1978
Currency Unit  =  Peso - Col$                   Col$
US$1           =  Col$36.985                    39.08
Col$1          -  US$0.027                      0.02559
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km)   =  0.386 square mile (mi2)
1 cubic meter (m3)          =  35.315 cubic feet (ft2)
=  264.2 gallon (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t; metric; 1,000 kg)=  1.100 short tons (sh. tons)
1 kilowatt (kW)             =  1,000 Watts (103 kW = 106 W)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)       =  830.3 Kilocalories (kcal)
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)       =  1,000,000 kWh (106 kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)             =  1,000 Volts (V)
...per...                   =     /
...per second; ...per hour =  .../s; .../h
...per day; ...per year    =  .../d; .../a
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CHEC      =  Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas
CHIDRAL   =  Central Hidroelectrica del Rio Anchicava S.A.
CORELCA   =  Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC       = Corporacion Autonoma Regional de el Valle del Rio Cauca
DNP       =  National Planning Department
EEEB      =  Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
EMCALI    =  Empresas Municipales de Cali
EPM       =  Empresas Publicas de Medellin
GDP       =  Gross Domestic Product
ICEL      =  Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
IDB       =  Inter-American Development Bank
ISA       =  Interconexion Electrica S.A.
JNT       =  Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos
KfW       =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
MESITAS HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB)
Guarantor:          Republic of Colombia
Amount:             US$84.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayment in 17 years, including 4 years of grace;
interest at 7.35% per annum.
Project
Description:      The project forms part of the 1978-82 national power
expansion program and it includes: (a) construction of
the Mesitas hydroelectric facility consisting of two
surface powerhouses, each with three generating units
totalling 600 MW, and tunnels and penstocks, as well
as a pumping station for an existing head pond, and
three 230 kV transmission lines; (b) strengthening of the
Sesquile dam against possible future earthquake damage;
(c) an asset valuation study; and (d) technical assistance
to EEEB on financial planning and staff training. The
project is an unusually low-cost power development, as
large dams are unnecessary. The Mesitas facility would
meet about 9'5% of projected incremental energy demand in
the EEEB system during 1982-84, including that attributable
to 70,000 new subscribers to be connected annually over
this period. Improvement of EEEB's structure of tariffs
and rates would be a major institutional focus of the
proposed loan. The project is subject to the risks
normally associated with underground civil works under
difficult geological conditions. However, the actions
that have been taken to minimize risk should ensure that
the project will be carried out as scheduled.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2
Estimated Cost:                                             Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Mesitas
Civil Works                          44.2      28.0      72.2
Major Equipment                       4.9      47.1      52.0
Miscellaneous Equipment                5.5     23.1      28.6
Transmission System                   0.3       4.4       4.7
Engineering                          14.8       0.9      15.7
Sesquile
Civil Works                            1.5      2.3       3.8
Equipment                             0.8       1.2       2.0
Engineering                           0.7         -       0.7
Technical Assistance                              0.4       0.4
Base Cost                         72.7    107.4    180.1
Physical Contingencies             8.5      15.8      24.3
Price Contingencies               31.2      25.2     56.4
Total Project Cost               112.4    148.4    260.8
NOTE:  During the period 1978-82, EEEB will carry out other
works with an estimated cost of US$303.2 million
equivalent, will require an increase in working
capital estimated at US$34.3 million, and will
invest approximately US$296.5 million in ISA.
Financing Plan:                                             Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Internal Cash Generation and
Commercial Borrowings               112.4         -    112.4
Proposed IBRD Loan                        -      84.0      84.0
Colombian Electricity Fund Loan           -      10.2      10.2
Co-financing from
Foreign Commercial Banks                -      54.2     54.2
Total                                 112.4    148.4    260.8
Rate of Return:      Using revenues and fuel savings as a proxy for benefits,
the internal rate of return on the project investment is
10.4%.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2078b-CO, dated October 31, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESA DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA DE BOGOTA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
MESITAS HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB), with the guarantee of the
Republic of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$84.0 million to help finance
the Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including four years of grace, with interest at 7.35% per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report on Colombia (1548-CO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It assesses current developments
and provides a medium-term perspective of the Colombian economy. An updating
report is being prepared and is scheduled for distribution to the Executive
Directors in November 1978. Country data sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades, Colombia has made substantial progress
in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy made up
of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban-industrial
economy. The productive base of the economy has been widened appreciably, and
there has been substantial diversification of production in both the agricul-
tural and industrial sectors. These improvements have been accompanied by
rapid growth of non-traditional exports and by the development of a modern
sector relying to a considerable extent on imported inputs. As a result, the
country has become less dependent on coffee as a source of foreign exchange
earnings and strong fluctuations in domestic economic conditions resulting
from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while still considerable,
have become more manageable. Although substantial progress has been made
during the past two decades, Colombia is still an only partially developed
country with a limited modern sector superimposed on a large, traditional and
economically poor base. Per capita income is low by developed world standards,
unemployment is high, and in 1977, 53.3% of the rural and 34.0% of the urban
population had incomes under the absolute poverty level as defined by the
Bank's methodology.
1/   Substantially unchanged from President's Report, Aviation Development
Project (Report No. P-2383-CO).



- 2 -
4.        Colombia's population growth declined during the last two decades
from 3.2% in the 1950s to 2.8% at present. Most of the decrease in popula-
tion growth during this period can be accounted for by a rapid decline
in the crude birth rate -- from 47.2 births per thousand persons in 1964
to 41.3 in 1968 and 31.1 births per thousand in 1975-76. A number of factors
are believed to account for the declining birth rate: rising per capita
income, rapid rural/urban migration, expanded economic opportunities for
women and the increased effectiveness of family planning programs. Rural/
urban migration declined somewhat from the early 1960s on as progress was
made in eliminating the widespread violence which had occurred in the
countryside during the 1950s. As a consequence, investment, output and
employment in agriculture has expanded considerably. Nevertheless, approxi-
mately 64% of the current population lives in urban centers and there are
now 16 cities in Colombia with population of over 100,000 persons. While
Colombia's population is not considered excessive relative to the country's
resource base, economic growth, particularly in the directly productive goods
and service sectors where permanent jobs can be created, will have to be
accelerated in order to expand employment opportunities at a pace sufficient
to keep up with rapid growth of the labor force.
5.        Available information suggests that there has been some improvement
in income distribution in Colombia since the 1950s. These gains appear to
have occurred as a consequence of a number of factors including reduced
population growth, migration of underemployed surplus labor from rural areas,
and rapid growth of employment in higher productivity jobs in industry and
agriculture. Since 1967, policy efforts to improve the welfare of the poor
have emphasized employment generation and more recently public investment
in health, education, nutrition and urban development designed to reach the
poorest 50% of the population. Future prospects for improvements in income
distribution and in the welfare of the lower income groups appear favorable.
Continued emphasis on growth of the productive sectors of the economy and
on programs to encourage small-scale industry and agriculture should provide
increased employment opportunties throughout the country, and rising real
wages for unskilled and semi-skilled labor in both rural and urban areas.
Continued upgrading of social services provided to the poor are expected to
reinforce these trends and improve the level of welfare of these segments
of the population.
6.        The Colombian authorities introduced a dramatic change in develop-
ment strategy in 1967, replacing the then existing protectionist policy of
import substitution with measures designed to expand and diversify the
country's exports. These policies were highly successful in expanding
exports, thereby alleviating the foreign exchange constraint and making
possible a substantially higher level of investment. As a consequence,
real GDP rose by an average 6.5% annually between 1967 and 1974, well above
the historical average. Merchandise exports expanded more than fourfold
during this period, and most significantly, non-traditional exports became
an increasingly important source of foreign exchange earnings, in part
compensating for slow growth of receipts from coffee exports. By 1974,
non-coffee exports comprised 56% of total merchandise exports, up from
less than 30% in 1967.



- 3 -
7.        Despite improvements in economic efficiency, strong growth of
output and export diversification, the country faced some potentially serious
problems at the time the new administration took office in 1974. Weakening
balance of payments, in part related to the slowdown of growth in the indus-
trial countries, loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, deteriora-
tion of public finances, accelerating inflation, and declining iavestment,
threatened to reduce growth of output and employment. As a consa~quence of
these developments, the Government introduced an economic stabilization
program which combined basic reform of the fiscal, monetary, and trade systems
with measures aimed at accelerating long-term economic growth.
8.        In order to strengthen public finances, the Government undertook
a comprehensive tax reform designed to improve the progressivity and elas-
ticity of the tax system. Distortions which had developed in the financial
system caused by forced investment requirements placed on financial institu-
tions and by differential tax treatment of financial instruments were elimi-
nated. In order to increase the efficiency of the economy through greater
reliance on market forces, price controls on a number of important agricultural
products were removed, thereby providing greater stimulus for increasing farm
production. Modifications in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining
self-sufficiency in production of crude petroleum by improving incentives for
explorati.on and exploitation were introduced. Concurrently, measures were
taken to reduce the subsidy on local consumption of petroleum products, with
the dollar equivalent price of gasoline being raised in successive steps by
175% between August 1975 and January 1978. Tariff levels and non-tariff
barriers to trade were reduced significantly in order to increase external
competition and the efficiency of domestic firms. While these reforms were
successful in improving the public finances and reducing inflation in 1975,
they also served to reduce economic growth and the slowdown of domestic
economic activity which began in 1974 continued through most of 1975.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the last two years the Colombian economy has been strongly
affected by developments in the external sector. As the result of a serious
frost in Brazil's major coffee producing area in late 1975, coffee exports
from that country declined sharply, triggering a fourfold increase in the
world price of coffee by 1977. As a consequence, Colombia's export earnings
from coffee increased from US$670 million in 1975 to nearly US$1.7 billion
in 1977 and incomes throughout Colombia's rural areas rose sharply. Lagging
supply of consumer goods, especially of basic foodstuffs, production of which
was adversely affected by drought conditions in most of the country's interior,
failed to keep pace with rising demand and inflation accelerated from 24% in
1976 to 45% in the twelve months ending June 1977. Inflation in Colombia
has generally been moderate relative to that experienced by other countries
in the region, seldom exceeding an annual rate of 20%. The magnitude of
acceleration of inflation which took place from early 1976 to mid-1977 was
unprecedented in the country's recent history.
10.       The authorities responded rapidly by introducing a broad range of
fiscal, monetary and trade policies designed to gain control over the explosive
increase in prices. Beginning in late 1976 reserve requirements were raised,



- 4 -
rediscounting at the Central Bank was reduced and public sector borrowing
from the Central Bank was eliminated. The authorities temporarily suspended
their policy of periodically adjusting the exchange rate and prices of petro-
leum products. In January 1977, a 100% marginal reserve requirement was
placed on increases in commercial bank deposits exceeding the December 31,
1976 level. To delay the impact of rising foreign exchange receipts on the
monetary base, exporters were required to accept 90-day US dollar denominated
certificates of exchange in lieu of cash payment for their exports. In order
to sterilize a portion of the increase in foreign exchange earnings from
coffee exports, the Coffee Federation agreed to invest a large portion of
its receipts in Central Bank bonds, the proceeds of which were frozen in
a special account. To increase supplies in the domestic market, a number
of measures were taken to liberalize imports and food imports by the state
marketing agency, IDEMA, were increased sharply. In addition, restrictive
fiscal measures were introduced to curb growth of aggregate demand and the
Treasury registered a budgetary surplus for the first time in recent years.
11.       As a consequence of these measures, a favorable second semester
harvest and a slower rate of accumulation of foreign exchange reserves,
inflation declined sharply beginning in July 1977. By the end of the year,
the annual rate of inflation had fallen to 29%. With inflation subsiding,
periodic exchange rate adjustments were reintroduced and in January 1978
the price of gasoline was raised by 20%. 1/ With few other exceptions,
however, the stabilization policies were continued in effect throughout the
first three quarters of 1978 and by September 1978, inflation had subsided to
an annual rate of 12.6%.
12.       Despite the domestic stabilization program and the lack of dynamism
in world markets, expansion of the Colombian economy increased steadily in
1976 and 1977. Growth of real GDP increased from 3.8% in 1975 to 4.4% and
5.9%, respectively, in the subsequent two years. Accelerated growth during
this period was the direct result of strong expansion of domestic demand
related to the rise in incomes of coffee producers. Output of the industrial
and service sectors responded strongly to rising demand, while agricultural
output, adversely affected by the drought, showed only negligible increases
in both years. Because strong growth occurred in relatively labor-intensive
sectors of the economy (manufacturing, commerce and services), the urban
unemployment rate declined to an estimated 8% by the end of 1977, from an
average 12% during the first half of the 1970s. In addition, there is
evidence of labor shortages and rising real wage rates in rural areas during
this period, and it is believed that rural unemployment also declined.
13.       World coffee prices have declined since their 1977 peak and are
now moving back toward their real historic average. The 1976-77 boom in
world coffee prices has left Colombia with an unprecedented level of
foreign exchange reserves, US$2.0 billion through mid-1978, equivalent
to nearly one year's merchandise imports at the current rate. While public
1/   Gasoline prices were raised by an additional 33% effective October 12,
1978.



finances also benefitted from the surge in coffee revenues, non-coffee
tax collections, especially from the income and wealth taxes, have lagged
behind growth of nominal GDP. Public investment expenditure was curbed
during the past two years as part of the stabilization effort and will
now have to be expanded so as not to further delay execution of important
projects aimed at improving the country's social and economic infrastructure.
Non-coffee tax revenues will be one of the major sources of financing of
such investment and it is expected that they will be strengthened as tax
proceeds from coffee exports continue to decline.
Development Strategy and Prospects
14.       The development strategy embodied in the 1975-78 Development Plan
aimed at accelerating the rate of growth of GDP and at distributing the
benefit of such growth more equitably. This was to be achieved by increasing
the allocative efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on market
forces, by providing incentives for increasing private sector investment, by
expanding economic and social infrastructure, and by improving public services
provided to the poorest half of the population. Substantial progress has
been made in carrying out this strategy during the past three years. Public
sector investments have focused increasingly on projects designed to alleviate
rural and urban poverty and on expanding and improving infrastructure. Compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition projects aimed at increasing
incomes and welfare of the lowest income groups have been introduced. Urban
development projects designed to provide improved services and employment
opportunities to residents of slum areas in Colombia's major cities have been
initiated to alleviate urban poverty. These programs have been complemented
by policies to encourage the development of small- and medium-scale enterprises
and to decentralize industry away from the three largest cities. This latter
policy, together with credit programs designed to increase output and employ-
ment in agriculture, have been designed to alleviate rural poverty and reduce
rural/urban migration. Public sector infrastructure investments have been
concentrated on improvement and extension of highway and communications
systems. Special priority has been given to the development of domestic
energy sources to reduce the country's growing dependence on imported oil.
15.       Increased emphasis on provision of improved social services is
reflected in the increased proportion of National Government expenditure
on education, health, and water and sewerage systems, which rose from
33% in 1974 to 38% in 1977. The economic dislocations caused by the
coffee boom and the need to concentrate economic policy on short-term
management problems have limited expansion of public and private invest-
ment and required temporary suspension of some of the measures designed
to free the price system and stimulate growth of non-traditional exports.
16.       The new Government in Colombia which took office in August, is
now in the process of formulating its development strategy. Recent
statements by the authorities indicate their intention to continue with the
same basic development strategy as the past administration. Increased
emphasis is to be placed, however, on achieving more balanced growth through
expansion of infrastructure in the country's least developed regions, and



on stimulating growth and diversification of non-traditional exports,
especially foodstuffs. With import substitution opportunities largely
exhausted and given the relatively limited size of Colombia's domestic
market, renewed emphasis on export led growth is expected to provide a
firm basis for sustained increases in output and employment.
17.       Given the country's strong resource base and its high level of
international reserves, Colombia should be able to achieve annual real GDP
growth of between 6% and 7% during the 1978-82 period.  Maintenance of this
level of growth will require rapid expansion of non-coffee exports and
increases in savings and investment rates. Public sector investment is
expected to expand rapidly during this period because of the large unmet
needs for infrastructure, social services and energy development. Financial
requirements for this higher level of investment will be substantial and
public sector savings will have to be sustained at the current high levels.
Given the continued decline in coffee revenue which is expected, improvements
will be required in administration of non-coffee taxes. Of equal importance
is the continued upward adjustment in prices charged for the goods and services
provided by the public decentralized agencies. Growth of non-coffee exports,
especially of manufactured goods, will no doubt be strongly influenced by the
rates of economic growth of Colombia's major trading partners, but appropriate
domestic incentives will play an even more important role in expanding exports.
In this regard, it is expected that Colombia will follow an exchange rate
policy designed to maintain the competitiveness of Colombian exports and that
additional export promotion measures will be adopted to encourage both product
and market diversification.
18.       Greater efforts to increase efficiency and production in the
agricultural and industrial sectors will also be needed to complement
incentives given to non-traditional exports. Programs to meet these needs
in the agricultural sector, including integrated rural development, expansion
of farm credit, improved research and extension services, and upgraded
marketing facilities, are already in place and will need to be strengthened.
Accelerated development of the country's capital markets is expected to
increase private savings and improve allocation of financial resources and
thereby provide the basis for more rapid growth of industry. Ongoing and
future infrastructure investments by the public sector should facilitate
improvements in economic efficiency and lead to more rapid growth of
output and employment in both industry and agriculture.
19.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly
growing deficit that is expected to reach significant proportions in the
early 1980s in the absence of an aggressive energy development program.
To avoid the constraint on growth that large scale shortages of energy
would entail, high priority is being given to the development of additional
energy sources. The strategy which is being pursued is to reduce the nation's
dependence on petroleum as an energy source by developing substitutes such
as hydropower, coal and natural gas. Major projects are being executed
and others prepared to expand hydroelectric power generation and incentives
are being given to private foreign companies for accelerated exploration
and development of the country's hydrocarbon potential. Exports of coal



- 7 -
and natural gas are expected to offset a portion of the large petroleum
imports projected for the mid to late 1980s. Conservation of existing
resources resulting from higher energy prices is expected to slow the
growth in energy demand. While the total investment cost of future energy
development is still being determined, preliminary estima,s Ladicate th_.
the required investment could run as high as US$8.0 billion in current prices
over the next decade.  Even under the most optimistic assumption regarding
foreign private investment, suppliers' credits and domestic resource mobiliza-
tion, external credits of about US$4.0 billion would be required in this
sector alone during this period. Any significant delay in implementing the
country's energy development program would most likely have serious adverse
repercussions on future economic growth.
20.       Because of the expected continued decline in world coffee prices,
accelerating oil imports and the high import content of future investment
projects, the current account of the balance of payments is expected to be
in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Increased mineral exports
including coal, natural gas, and nickel, and completion of the large invest-
ments in energy development are expected to relieve the pressure on the
balance of payments by the late 1980s. Colombia is expected, therefore,
to continue to be a large net importer of capital for some time to come.
Its future external resource requirements reflect the need to supplement
domestic savings in order to carry out the public sector investment program
and to provide increasing amounts of foreign exchange to finance required
imports of capital and intermediate goods. Assuming that the Colombian
authorities permit a drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent
of three months' imports in the years immediately ahead, gross external
capital requirements are projected at US$4.7 billion between 1978 and 1982, or
an annual average of about US$950 million. About half of Colombia's capital
inflow during this period is expected to be provided by official multilateral
and bilateral sources, with commercial finance credits becoming increasingly
important.
21.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$3.6 billion at the end of 1977, of which US$2.6 billion
was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 28% and is expected to rise to 30% by 1982, before declining to 27%
by 1985. Although the public debt service ratio fell during the past
two years as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase
from 9.9% in 1977 to about 11.5% in 1982. Balance of payments prospects
beyond 1980 will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic
energy sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-
based export oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the
expected continuation of sound economic and financial management and timely
execution of the country's energy program, it should be possible to prevent
the external sector from again becoming a constraint on economic growth and
to maintain Colombia's creditworthiness for the required external borrowing.



- 8 -
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
22.       The proposed loan, the 77th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,023.2 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,477.5 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 46 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made investments
and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises and now holds
US$18.5 million.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and the
IDA credit as of August 31, 1978, and IFC investments as of September 30, 1978.
The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the 29 on-going projects.
23.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
emphasized social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricul-
tural loans have been made since then, nine of the twelve loans for industry,
all three loans in the education sector, all seven loans for water supply
and sewerage, one loan for a nutrition project and one loan for an urban
development project. This compares with only nine loans since FY68 in the
power and transport sectors.
24.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY78 consisted of loans for nutrition
improvement, water and sewerage, urban development, power generation and
interconnection, development finance companies and development of an export
processing zone, totalling US$354.6 million equivalent. In addition to the
proposed project, the FY79 program includes the recently approved aviation
development project and proposed loans for water and sewerage, further urban
development, mining, coal engineering and agricultural credit for land
reform beneficiaries. Work is also under way in medium-city water supply
systems, slum improvement, transportation, further mining development, power,
including rural electrification, small farm development and industry for
possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
25.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a
substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
would also assist the development of coal mines, which hold potential in
helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in diversifying
exports. Bank involvement in the energy sector would help mobilize additional
external financing as some of the projects would require co-financing. Other
future loans would finance agriculture and industry to assist the Government
in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to
strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives would
be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure in more backward
areas of the country to integrate them into the modern economy. In this
context, we are assisting the Government in preparing a rural and feeder roads
project. Finally, a relatively large number of loans are being prepared in
support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian
population. The proposed urban development and slum improvement, rural
electrification, small farm development, credit for land reform beneficiaries
and water supply and sewerage projects are principally designed to improve the
standard of living of the poor.



- 9 -
26.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to approxi-
mately 48%. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given increased emphasis to social
projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted projects in low cost housing,
urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water
supply, and land erosion control; in the future IDB proposes to assist Colombia
in its plans to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the activity
of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment. AID has
supported programs in education, urban development and small farm development.
More recently, it has moved to small project loans aimed chiefly at improving
the distribution of income. It is expected to phase out its aid program in
Colombia in 1979 with the commitment of a US$6 million nutrition loan.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER REQUIREMENTS
Energy Resources and Requirements
27.       Colombia is endowed with substantial primary energy resources
(hydropower, natural gas, petroleum and coal), the most promising of which is
hydropower, estimated at a potential 100 GW, of which only 2.3% have been
developed to date. Coal resources have been barely explored, but reserves
are estimated to range from 20-40 billion metric tons, at which level they
would be the largest in Latin America. A recent discovery of natural gas in
the Guajira Peninsula, amounting to 3.5 trillion cubic feet, has brought
proven reserves to a level well above 5 trillion cubic feet. On the other
hand, because of insufficient exploration, known reserves of crude oil have
fallen and are estimated to amount to less than nine years of 1976 output.
However, only one of Colombia's nine sedimentary basins (the Magdalena River
Valley) has been explored on a systematic basis, although the state oil
company, ECOPETROL, in association with foreign oil companies, is now explor-
ing other basins. Additionally, investigation of nuclear, geo-thermal and
solar energy is underway.
28.       Since 1965, output of primary energy has lagged behind overall
economic growth, mainly because of declining crude oil output. By 1975,
production of crude (321 trillion Btu) had fallen to 78% of 1965 output
and 72% of the 1970 level. While over 1965-75 total energy output increased
by 3.6%, from 603 trillion Btu to 625 trillion Btu annually, energy consumption
increased by almost 80%, rising from 275 trillion Btu to 489 trillion Btu.
(Exports and losses account for the difference between production and consump-
tion figures.) By 1976, hydrocarbon imports exceeded exports by US$35.6
million equivalent. Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate an
expanding deficit that could reach significant proportions in the early 1980s
and become a constraint on economic growth (paragraph 19).
Energy Development Objectives and Strategy
29.       As stated, the Government's objective is to overcome the energy
deficit by developing domestic energy sources and by promoting rational use of
them. To this end, it has adopted several measures. First, it has recast



- 10 -
its hydrocarbon pricing and regulation policy to stimulate output of petro-
leum, natural gas and coal. Foreign oil companies have reacted favorably to
these measures and have initiated new explorations. Second, CARBOCOL, a
Government agency established to develop the country's coal resources, has
concluded contracts with various foreign companies to undertake exploration
and development of several coal fields, particularly the largest, El Cerrejon,
in the Guajira region. Third, considerable substitution of gas for petroleum
products in industry and thermal power generation is being carried out on the
Atlantic Coast. Fourth, a program for expansion of power generation and
transmission facilities to meet forecast demand over the 1977-84 period has
been drawn up (paragraphs 37 and 38). Fifth, the Government has concluded
a contract with the French Minatome Group to explore the country's uranium
potential. Lastly, the Government has adopted a policy calling for charging
the full cost of energy to consumers in order to promote rational energy use
and self-generate an important share of the financial resources required for
investment in the sector (paragraph 36).
The Power Market, Service Levels and Institutional Framework
30.       Electric power is the fastest-growing form of energy in Colombia.
Its share of total energy consumption has risen from 14% in 1960 to 24% in
1975. Colombia's installed capacity at the end of 1976 was 3,300 MW, includ-
ing self production; hydro stations account for 68% of total energy generated.
Since 1967, production of electricity has been growing at an annual rate of
10.5%, i.e., one and three-fourths times as fast as the growth rate of GDP.
Power sales have also been rising rapidly (9.2% per annum since 1972). Annual
per capita electricity generation stands at 600 kWh, which is below the
average for Latin America. Households (42% of the total), industry (35%) and
commerce (13%) are the major electricity users.
31.       About 60% of Colombia's 24.2 million population has electricity.
The urban population, in 1977 estimated to be about 64% of the population, has
greater access to electricity. 1/ In 1976, for example, 85% of households in
large cities (population of 50,000 or more) had electrical service while in
rural towns (population between 50-2,500) the corresponding figure was 36%;
in other rural areas, 16%. With the assistance of external lenders, the
Government is carrying out programs to increase the supply of electricity
to rural areas.
32.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy is charged with formulating
national policy for power generation, transmission and distribution. In
defining investment priorities, it shares responsibility with the National
Planning Department (DNP). The Government cannot enforce its policies
directly on the municipally controlled power companies, but Interconexion
Electrica, S.A. (ISA), a generating and transmission company controlled by
the largest municipal power companies and by the Government-owned national
power companies, provides a mechanism for reaching agreement on major
issues affecting the sector. ISA's role in the sector has been strengthened
during preparation of the San Carlos Hydropower Project (Loan 1582-CO,
July 14, 1978), in spite of certain original reluctance by the shareholders.
1/   Residents of cities with 2,500 or more inhabitants.



- 11 -
Its by-laws were amended to the effect that in the future the entity will be
responsible for (a) planning expansion of the interconnected system
(paragraph 33) and (b) constructing and owning all future generating plants
in the system except for those of regional interest, such as Mesitas, which
may be undertaken by the shareholders after approval by ISA.
33.       The development of Colombia's power sector has been assisted by the
gradual consolidation of isolated facilities into regional systems and the
interconnection of these systems, through ISA, to facilitate development of
low-cost hydro resources. The entities which provide electricity service
comprise:
(a) independent municipal companies, of which the largest are
Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB), Empresas
Publicas de Medellin (EPM) and Empresas Municipales de Cali
(EMCALI);
(b) entities under the national Government, the most important
of which are Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Cauca (CVC),
Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA), and
Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL), all of
which have numerous local subsidiaries; and
(c) ISA, the shareholders of which are EEEB, EPM, CVC, CORELCA
and ICEL.
34.       Public utility tariffs are regulated by the Junta Nacional de
Tarifas de Servicios Publicos (JNT) in the DNP. JNT, which was established
in the late sixties with Bank support, has the power to approve requests from
the power companies for tariff increases. The power companies, however, are
free to set rates lower than those approved by JNT and have sometimes done so.
Power Development and Its Financing
35.       Colombia's power sector has developed rapidly.  Between 1950-1977
installed generating capacity increased by 3,000 MW or thirteenfold. A
substantial part of this expansion was financed with internal cash generation
(in the case of the large municipal companies, which were responsible for
half of the expansion, about 40% of total capital outlays) and with contribu-
tions from the National Treasury, chiefly to ICEL, CVC and CORELCA. The Bank
and IDB were the main source of foreign financing for the power sector (US$607
million equivalent combined), although in recent years suppliers' credits
increased their participation. From 1971-74, power rate adjustments lagged
behind cost increases and the companies' finances deteriorated. As a result,
construction of new works was delayed and the operating efficiency of the
companies suffered.
36.       Beginning with 1975, rate adjustments have accelerated, with average
yearly increases through 1977 marginally exceeding average annual inflation.
Investment outlays have once again increased and in 1975 totalled US$187.6 mil-
lion equivalent, i.e., 31% over the preceding year. In early 1978, the Govern-
ment and the major power companies initiated a program of tariff increases



- 12 -
aim of generating an adequate portion of investment funds for planned expan-
sion. In line with this, average tariff levels in companies accounting for the
bulk of sales in the sector will have been increased by some 37% by the end of
1978, with further increases of 33% already approved for 1979. To ensure a
satisfactory level of self-financing in subsequent years, the major companies
have adopted a policy of maintaining satisfactory annual rates of return on
revalued assets.
Power Requirements and Proposed Investments
37.       Over 1977-84, power requirements in the interconnected system are
projected to grow at 10.6% per annum, i.e. slightly faster than in the past.
To meet this demand, effective generating capacity would have to be increased
by 130%, or about 4,300 MW; of this, about 540 MW were completed in 1977 and
2,040 MW are under construction.
38.       Investments in generation and transmission during 1977-84 are
expected to amount to about Col$250 billion in current prices (about US$5
billion in 1976 prices), some 60% of which would be foreign exchange. This
includes the start of construction of projects that will form part of the
1985-90 expansion program. To provide for an orderly expansion of the sector,
ISA and its shareholders will start shortly the preparation of a power sector
development master plan covering the period 1980-90 in detail, and 1991-2000
in more general terms.
The Bogota Power Market
39.       The city of Bogota and its suburbs account for most of EEEB"s sales.
At the end of 1977, EEEB served 481,700 customers, who in that same year
consumed 3,174 GWh. Households (39% of the total), commercial (19%) and
industrial (31%) are EEEB's major customers. The company's sales have been
growing rapidly, at an annual rate of 10.8%, i.e., faster than the national
average of 9.2% per annum. In line with the country's favorable economic
outlook and Bogota's growing urbanization, EEEB's gross energy requirements
are expected to rise somewhat faster in the future (about 11% per annum).
Upon commissioning in 1982, the Mesitas facility will provide energy equiva-
lent to EEEB's projected incremental energy demand through 1983 and most of
1984. Beyond 1984, however, EEEB will depend on electricity purchases from
ISA to meet its gross energy requirements (it is expected that Mesitas will
become fully utilized as soon as it enters into service).
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
40.       Since 1950, the Bank- has made 20 loans to Colombia's power sector,
totalling US$526 million. Sixteen loans have assisted the expansion of gene-
rating capacity and transmission and distribution facilities in the systems
serving Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Manizales, includ-
ing expansion of electricity distribution to low income areas (874-CO, 1973).
In addition, the Bank has supported rural electrification under loans 246-CO
(1960) and 313-CO (1962), and under the ongoing Integrated Rural Development
Project (1352-CO, 1977). The most recent lcans, for the 500 kV Inter-
connection Line and the San Carlos I Hydropower Projects (Loans 1582-CO



- 13 -
and 1583-CO, July 14, 1978) would, respectively, complete the task of
interconnecting the country's regional power systems begun under 575-CO
(1968), and add 620 MW of hydro capacity to the national interconnected
system.
41.       EEEB has received three Bank loans, totalling US$85.6 million
equivalent, in support of three separate generation, transmission and distri-
bution expansion programs. The first two loans (246-Co, 1960; and 313-CO,
1962) assisted in financing the addition of 305 MW to hydro and thermal plant
capacity, transmission lines and distribution system expansion. The works
financed included the rebuilding of distribution networks in several, mostly
rural, towns near Bogota, as well as expansion of rural sub-transmission. The
third loan (537-CO, 1968) supported a 200 MW increase in EEEB's hydro plant
capacity, and expansion of transmission and distribution facilities. Despite
delays, all works under the three projects were successfully carried out. A
Project Performance Audit Report (SecM77-536, June 1977) of Loan 537-CO
observed that project objectives had been met, both in terms of project
execution and institutional performance. With respect to financial perform-
ance of the utility, EEEB had exceeded the 9% covenanted annual return on
partially-revalued assets. Moreover, despite the fact that the cost of total
investments for the Third Expansion Program (1968-74) were substantially
higher than anticipated at the outset, EEEB was able to generate from revenues
a satisfactory 45% of total costs.
42.       Past Bank lending to Colombia's power sector was reviewed in the
OED report entitled "Bank Operations in Colombia, an Evaluation" (Report
No. Z-18) of May 25, 1972. The report concluded that Bank financing was
successful in assisting the power companies to develop hydroelectric plants
at lower unit cost than they otherwise would have been able to do. In turn,
this permitted greater urban coverage as well as cheaper and more reliable
electricity supply to industry. The report commended Bank efforts in the
establishment of JNT and the central interconnected system which facilitated
further power sector development. Among other things, the report recommended
that in the future the Bank pay increased attention to the companies' finan-
cial planning, tariff structures and energy losses. These points have been
addressed under the aforementioned recent loans for power development.
Complementary measures are provided for under the proposed project.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
43.       The project, prepared by EEEB through consultants (Ingetec, Colombia),
will provide approximately 24% of the planned increase in national generation
capacity during 1978-82. The project was appraised by Bank missions which
visited Colombia in December 1977 and in January 1978. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C., during the week of September 18, 1978, with a Colombian
delegation led by Miss Leonor Montoya, Director of Public Credit, and
Mr. Roberto Caceres, General Manager of EEEB.



- 14 -
44.       The objectives of the project are:  (a) to satisfy part of forecast
power demand at least cost; (b) to minimize the risk of earthquake damage
to an existing dam (Sesquile); and (c) to strengthen EEEB's financial planning
and management capacity.
Project Description
45.       The project comprises:  (a)  construction of the Mesitas hydropower
development; (b) remedial work on the Sesquile dam; (c) a study of the
value of EEEB's assets; and (d) provision of a senior financial advisor to
assist EEEB with financial planning and management, and the establishment of
training programs for EEEB's key financial staff.
46.       Mesitas.  The precipitous fall of the Bogota River west of the city
of Bogota permits the development of an unusually low cost power generation
project (Mesitas), which consists mainly of tunnels and penstocks connected
to two surface powerhouses having a total capacity of 600 MW. The tunnel
alignment and the two powerhouses would be situated southward of, and generally
parallel to EEEB's four present hydropower plants along the Bogota River. The
water for Mesitas will be provided by the first stage of the Chingaza water
supply project for Bogota, financed partly by Loan 747-CO in 1971, and will
increase EEEB's annual average hydro generation from 2,320 GWh to 4,305 GWh.
The Mesitas works consist of:
(a) the El Paraiso power plant, the first downstream of the two
plants, with water supplied through a 1.4 km tunnel, a 379 m
syphon, an 11.1 km tunnel, and a 4 km penstock. The power-
house will contain three 90 MW units;
(b) the La Guaca Power Plant with water supplied through a 373 m
tailrace tunnel from El Paraiso, a 171 m shaft, a 1.3 km
tunnel, a 3.3 km penstock, a 187 m shaft, and a final 2.1 km
tunnel. The powerhouse will contain three 110 MW units;
(c) an additional pumping station for the existing Muna head pond
with three 10,000 horsepower pumps and a 412 m x 3.5 m diameter
steel penstock; and
(d) a double circuit 230 kV, 8 km transmission line linking the
El Paraiso and La Guaca plants; a double circuit 230 kV, 6 km
line linking the plants to the ISA central network; and a double
circuit 230 kV, 86 km line linking the plants to EEEB's La Torca
substation east of Bogota.
47.       Sesquile.  The Sesquile dam, financed in part through Loan 246-CO
in 1960, is located on the Siecha River just upstream from its confluence with
the Bogota River, approximately 56 km from Bogota. The reservoir (Guatavita)
provides 74% of the storage available for power generation in the Bogota River
system of power plants. The dam is an earthfill structure founded on sand



- 1S -
dumped into a dredgc.d era: tior   Following the dam's completion, observation
of liquification failures Luring eartiaquakes in Japan in 1964, Alaska in 1964,
and California in 1971 led to a much better understanding of liquefaction in
loose sands during earthquakes. Foundauion liquefaction and consequent
slumping of the Sesquile dafm are possible under seismic conditions originating
from an active fault 45 kiloneteris distant. ALthough the ribk of such a
failure is slight, there is no renponsit'ie option other than to proceed with
appropriate strengtheoling -t cf   6ar-   rhe strengthening works will comprise
construction of stabilizirig bcrns upSt.r eam and dowrnstream of the dam, and
densification of loose sand underlying the downstream berm through a series
of vertical and horizontal drains. About 1.4 milliod m of earthwork will be
required.
48.       Asset Study.  Qualified consultants will be employed to carry out a
study to obtain a new valuation of its fixed assets (paragraph 63).
49.       Financial Advisor  and Training.  A senior financial advisor will be
engaged to assist EEEB with financial planning and management, and training
will be provided for EEEB's Key financial staff (paragraph 55).
Costs and Financing
50.       Total project cotr ' 3   .:u;d atV US$260.8 million equivalent, of
which US$148.4 million, or about  c,7. correspoind to the foreign exchange
component. Costs for the Mesitas and Sesquile works are based upon estimates
prepared by Ingetec for EEEB, including two already-awarded civil works con-
tracts covering approximately 90%". of the Mesitas civil works (paragraph 65).
Price contingencies, equivalent to about 30% of base costs, reflect estimates
of yearly price increases. Physical contingencies amount to approximately 26%
of the base cost of the underground works, 14% for surface works and 10% for
equipment. The cost of consulting services for engineering and construction
supervision, most of which will be provided by local consultants, includes
4,720 man-months at an average base cost of US$3,475 per man-month. Consultant
services for the asset study, which are assumed to be foreign, are based on 35
man-months at US$8,000 per man-month, including travel costs; the senior finan-
cial advisor represents US$100,000; and training for EEEB's financial staff,
US$20,000. The asset study and financial advisory services would be provided
by consultants whose qualiFicationis, experience and terms and conditions would
be satisfactory to the Bank and ELEB (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The proposed loan >'L          uai LItion would finance 32% of total
project cost (57% of the projecni i toreign exchange cost). The remaining
foreign exchange costs would be .covered by an already-secured loan of
US$10.2 million equivalent from the Colombian Electricity Fund, while
US$54.2 million is expected to he c-financed by foreign commercial banks
(paragraph 58).  Local costs, US,         m million equivalent, would be financed
by EEEB through internally gen.erated funds and commercial borrowings.  Effec-
tiveness of the proposed IURt) lee-, vr- ld be conditioned upon receipt of
evidence that EEEB has madea   ;        nba  saicsfactory to the Bank, for the
balance of project financiag (SectiLon 8.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
52.       The Bank loan would finance:  (a) 73% of the foreign exchange
cost of underground civil works and 14% of the foreign cost of major equip-
ment related to Mesitas, together with 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
engineering, above-ground civil works, equipment for the pumping station,
transmission lines, equipment erection and other small items; and (b) 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of the Sesquile Dam strengthening and of the asset
study, senior financial advisor and training services.
The Borrower, EEEB
53.       EELB is an autonomous company owned by the Municipality of the
Special District of Bogota. It was established by private Colombian interests
and has operated the city's electric service for the past 77 years, since 1951
under municipal ownership. It has an installed capacity of 689 MW, 80% of
which is hydro and the balance coal-fired thermal.
54.       EEEB is administered by a seven-member Board of Directors and a
General Manager appointed by the Board. The General Manager is responsible
for day-to-day operations and is assisted by four Assistant Managers heading,
respectively, the administrative, financial, technical and operations branches
of the organization. The Board of Directors is headed by the Mayor of Bogota,
and consists of two members elected by the Municipal Council, three members
chosen by the Council from lists submitted by associations representative of
banks, commerce, and industry in Bogota, and one member chosen by the President
of Colombia. This composition was worked out in connection with the Bank's
initial loan to EEEB (246-CO) and has generally proven to be satisfactory.
55.       Although EEEB has had a history of stable and competent management,
there has been a considerable turnover among its senior management in recent
years. As a result, the number of experienced senior officers are now few and
they are mostly engaged in the technical and engineering aspects of the company.
Although day-to-day financial operations continue to function satisfactorily,
the financial staff needs strengthening to be able to take care of the company's
increasingly complex financial planning and debt management. Accordingly,
the proposed project provides for a senior financial advisor to assist with
financial planning and management, and for training programs for key financial
staff (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       EEEB had 2,225 employees at the end of 1977, including a technical
staff of 102, an administrative staff of 601, and 1,522 operations persornnel.
The history of the company's staff growth over the past ten years in relation
to the number of customers served and energy sold shows a steadily improving
trend, 216 customers and 1587 MWh per employee in 1977 compared with 174
customers and 1021 MWh per employee in 1968. These figures compare favorably
with those of electric utilities serving similar markets.
57.       Finances.  Over its 18-year relationship with the Bank, EEEB has
maintained a satisfactory financial position. Its internal cash generation
during the past ten years has provided more than 50% of its annual invest-
ment needs, including substantial recent contributions to ISA. The balance
of the company's investment funds have been obtained through borrowings,
most of which have been secured from IBRD and IDB; no government funding has
been required.



- 17 -
58.       At the end of 1977 EEEB's debt to equity ratio was 35/65 calculated
on the basis of revalued assets, with over 80% of the debt in long-term obli-
gations to the Bank and the IDB. The Company's debt service coverage ratio
for 1977 was 2.4. The favorable structure of EEEB's debt and its program
of tariff increases through 1980 (paragraph 60) place it in a good position
to obtain the additional debt financing which it will need from commercial
sources over and above that envisaged to be provided by IBRD. Several commer-
cial banks have made formal offers of a co-financing operation with the Bank
to EEEB, which would cover the remaining foreign exchange cost of the Mesitas
project. The most favorable proposal received thus far by EEEB is for 12 years,
including 5 years of grace; interest at 3/4% over LIBOR for the first three
years, 7/8% over LIBOR for remaining term; management fee 0.5%; commitment
fee, 0.5%.
59.       EEEB's total financial requirements for 1978-82 are estimated at
US$929 million equivalent and consist of: (a) the planned investments in the
Mesitas and Sesquile facilities (the proposed project); (b) investments to
modernize and expand the Company's subtransmission and distribution system
(US$277 million); (c) investments in new central facilities (US$21 million);
(d) interest during construction (US$41 million); (e) investments in ISA,
mainly for construction of new generating facilities (US$296 million); and
(f) increases in working capital (US$34 million). Approximately 55% of these
funds are expected to be generated internally by EEEB from revenues and direct
capital contributions from users. The balance would be obtained through
borrowings, mainly from international sources, including the proposed US$84
million equivalent Bank loan.
60.       The projected cash generation in EEEB's financing plan is based on
the Company's approved program of tariff increases through 1980, and on the
assumption that the end-1980 tariff level will be maintained in real terms
thereafter. The tariff program calls for an across-the-board increase of
2.2% each month through the end of 1980, and was approved by JNT in October
1977. The program also includes one-time increases of 8.0% to residential
rates and 15.0% to all other rates which took place on May 1, 1978. The
resultant real increase in the average rate from January 1, 1978 to January 1,
1981 would amount to an estimated 54% for the period.
61.       EEEB's net operating income with the above program is expected to
produce rates of return on estimated fully revalued assets ranging from
7.8% in 1978 to 16.8% in 1981, and then declining back to 12.4% by 1984.
These rates of return are consistent with that agreed upon by EEEB in the
Shareholder's Agreement for the San Carlos Hydropower Project (Loan 1582-CO
of July 14, 1978), since, on average, they are expected to produce a rate of
return on fully revalued assets of not less than 12% annually over 1978-80 and
thereafter (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). At the same time, in
order to ensure adequate internal cash generation, EEEB has agreed to achieve
annually a 73% cumulative ratio of internal cash generation as a percentage of
total investments in fixed assets and contributions to ISA over 1981-84
(Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). These performance targets are
consistent with the aforementioned tariff program (paragraph 60).



- I.0 -
62.       EEEB's debt service coverage ratio during 1978-80 is projected
to be above 3 times as a result of the substantial revenue increase projected
and the grace period of the foreign borrowings obtained during the period.
In subsequent years, the ratio is expected to fall to about 2.5 times, which
would still be satisfactory. EEEB has agreed that, unless the Bank should
otherwise agree, it would not incur debt in any fiscal year which would reduce
the coverage of its maximum future debt service by internal cash generation
below 1.5 times (Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). It is expected
that the company's debt/equity ratio will increase slightly from the current
proportion of approximately 34/66 during the next two years, and decline to
31/69 by the end of 1984. Lastly, to ensure adherence to the financing plan
until project completion, EEEB has agreed not to undertake, without prior agree-
ment of the Bank, investments in any year in excess of 1% of the value of its
net fixed assets in service other than for (a) the proposed project, (b) any
other generation expansion in excess of 100 MW which would be justified as
part of the national least-cost expansion program and for which adequate
financing would be available, (c) its obligations to ISA, and (d) transmission/
distribution expansion up to US$45 million equivalent in each of the years
1979-82 (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
63.       Notwithstanding the satisfactory financial performance expected
as a result of the above measures, the real value of EEEB's assets, as opposed
to the estimated value which resulted from the company's first attempt in
1977-78 to revalue fully, has not yet been clearly determined. The proposed
project, therefore, provides for a study to be carried out, by March 31, 1980,
to serve as a basis for determining in agreement with the Bank: (a) the
current value of net fixed assets in operation and works in progress, (b) a
method for annual revaluation, and (c) by September 30, 1980, the advisability
of revising the required annual rate of return (Section 3.02(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
64.       Tariff Structure.  EEEB's average tariff level has 'been improving
and is scheduled to continue doing so, in real terms, over the next two-and-
one-half years. However, its tariff structure is distorted. EEEB's charges
to industrial and commercial electricity consumers are higher than the
corresponding residential charges, even though the cost of residential service
would be at least equal to the cost of service to industrial or commercial
customers. Since late 1977, the gap between residential and other rates has
widened by the allocation of a smaller portion of overall tariff increases to
the residential category and by the exemption of residential consumers using
less than 300 kWh per month from tariff increases. A study on cost of service
to final consumers and pricing implications, to be carried out under the San
Carlos Hydropower Project, is expected to detail the precise dimensions of the
structural imbalance. In view of the importance to the energy sector, and to
the Colombian economy as a whole, of minimizing distortions in energy pricing
structure, EEEB has agreed to take account of the study's recommendations and
to establish a program in agreement with the Bank to correct this problem in
its tariff schedule (Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). Such program
would revise the structure of EEEB's tariffs and rates so that the aggregate
cost of service to each category of consumers (residential, industrial,
commercial and governmental) would be covered approximately by the aggregate
price charged to each category. It is anticipated that the revised schedule
would also take account of the government's income redistribution policies
with respect to the lowest-income consumers.



- 19 -
Procurement, Implementation and Disbursements
65.       All the items to be financed by the proposed loan (except for con-
sulting services) have been, or would be procured through international compe-
titive bidding (ICB) under Bank guidelines. Approximately 90% of the Mesitas
civil works have been under contract since September 1977. The largest part
of these, the tunnel and shaft works, for which the proposed loan would cover
US$28.1 million in foreign exchange costs, was contracted under ICB consistent
with the Bank's guidelines with Impregilo (Italy). The power shortage projected
for the early 80's made it imperative for EEEB to proceed with the work even
though no assurance of financing from the Bank was available. 1/ If EEEB had
been required to delay the start of the work until approval of the proposed
Bank loan, at least 800 GWh of electricity would have been lost in 1982,
approximately 15% of the estimated Bogota requirement. This would have caused
severe power rationing.
66.       EEEB is expected to contract the remaining civil works for Mesitas
and the civil works for the Sesquile Dam as well as to procure all the equip-
ment under ICB consistent with the Bank's guidelines. Colombian manufacturers
have bid for some of the equipment contracts with an estimated total cost of
about US$15 million equivalent. They would be given a preference of the lower
of 15% or the applicable custom duty for bid evaluation purposes. Project
works are expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.
67.       The loan would be disbursed over three-and-a-half years.  Disburse-
ments would be for: (a) 100% of the foreign expenditures for underground
civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for other civil works awarded to
foreign contractors, or 26% of total expenditures, representing the foreign
cost of locally-awarded contracts; (c) 100% of the foreign expenditures for
equipment erection contracts and imported equipment, or 94% of the ex-factory
cost of locally-manufactured materials and equipment; (d) 8% of the cost of
consultant services for engineering and construction supervision (based on the
estimated foreign costs of these services); and (e) 100%, representing the
foreign cost, of the asset valuation study, financial advisory, and training
programs for financial staff. All disbursements would be fully documented.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1982.
Benefits and Risks
68.       With an estimated growth in power requirements of about 11% per
year, the total number of customers served by EEEB would increase from 481,700
1/   In September 1977 when EEEB let the contracts, the chances for resolving
the outstanding issues affecting the then appraised San Carlos I Hydro-
power and 500 KV Interconnection Projects (mechanism for centralized
planning, construction and ownership, and operation of the national
interconnected system, sector financial performance, and fuel subsidies
to CORELCA) within a reasonable period of time, appeared slim. Under
these circumstances, therefore, the Bank was not prepared to appraise the
Mesitas project. These issues were finally resolved in November 1977 and
the Bank proceeded with the Mesitas appraisal in December 1977.



- 20 -
in 1977 to approximately 752,200 in 1982. Of the 270,500 new connections,
235,300 would be residential, including over 40,000 in the lowest income
category (those consuming less than 100 kWh/month). Without Mesitas, the
needed expansion in service would be drastically curtailed and severe power
rationing would be required. Even with the planned expansion, capacity
margins will be low through 1985, and load shedding will be likely during
poor hydrological periods.
69.       An internal rate of return of 10.4% on the Mesitas Project was
calculated using as a proxy for benefits the projected revenue from the
incremental electricity sales and new customer connections in EEEB's distri-
bution network that can be attributed to Mesitas, and the reduction in fuel
consumption which Mesitas will engender in existing thermal plant during the
two years in which its full output is being absorbed by the growth of demand
in the Bogota market. The costs attributed to Mesitas consist of investment
and operating costs for the project and associated transmission and distri-
bution facilities. The internal rate of return is close to the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Colombia of 11%. This close correspondence
between the project's internal return, as measured by future tariffs (projected
average EEEB revenue of 2.40 US cents/kWh in 1981, deflated to mid-1977 market
prices), and the opportunity cost of capital, indicates the appropriateness of
the tariff increases approved through 1980.
70.       The results of a sensitivity analysis indicates that the return
is rather insensitive to variations in fuel savings benefits and to operation
and maintenance costs. However, a 10% decrease in benefits, combined with a
10% rise in all costs would reduce the return to about 8%. The possibility of
lower-than-expected revenues due to slower growth of sales or lower tariff
increases than planned is, however, the principal uncertainty associated with
the internal rate of return. Since EEEB has agreed to maintain an adequate
level of income, it seems unlikely that the internal rate of return will fall
below 10.4%. The main physical risk is associated with the underground works.
The geology of the region is difficult, with swelling shales, water, and
methane gas (these caused significant problems during construction of the last
downstream plant of the existing system in the 1960s). Although the geological
conditions will not be completely known until encountered during the work, the
problem areas have been identified and the tunnel and penstock alignments have
been designed to minimize construction problems. Geology was also a critical
factor in the decision for a two-stage design (e.g., two penstocks and power-
houses) instead of a one-stage design. Some of the Mesitas tunnel sections
may require unusually heavy support, and gas and water could be troublesome
at times. However, it is not expected that this will cause undue difficulties
for the contractor, who is well experienced. Finally, Mesitas is in a
seismically active area and is designed accordingly. This is another reason
why the penstocks have been kept short.
Ecology
71.       Mesitas causes no major population displacements since most project
elements are underground. Tunnel and other earthwork spoil will be disposed
of in areas selected for minimum impact on arable lands or water sources.
This is specified in the civil works contracts. Most of the properties needed
for access to work areas, penstocks and powerhouses, involving 368 hectares
(247 properties), have been purchased. There remain, however, 31 properties



- 21 -
to be acquired whose owners have not yet accepted the proposed prices. In
line with this, EEEB has requested the official national appraisal agency
to review the situation. This matter is being closely followed by EEEB
and the Bank and is expected to be resolved satisfactorily. Rights of way
and land needed for the transmission lines have not been acquired inasmuch as
the layouts of the lines are still being worked on.  No major problems are
expected to arise in the remaining acquisition, since the areas involved are
relatively remote and unpopulated. EEEB would complete the acquisition by
June 30, 1980 (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and EEEB, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
73.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. An additional condition of effectiveness would be that EEEB has made
satisfactory arrangements for the balance of project financing (paragraph 51).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 1, 1978



- 22 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6 pages
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                              /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KtM.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1138.9                                                   SANE        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     224.8                                MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 ft ESTIMATE lb       REGION Ic  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 220.0       370.0      710.0          1066.7      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     491.C       606.0    671.0             911.1      578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        15.4        20.6      25.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 53.0 /f     60.3      64.3             57.9       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0        18.0      22.0             25.6       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     71.0        93.0      111.0            77.6       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.6        46.6      44.1             42.0       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                         50.4        50.4      52.7             52.2       53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.0       3.2              3.7        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.9         2.9       2.8              2.7        2.5          1.6
URBAN                              6.0 /g      5.5 /h    4.5              4.3        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.1 It     44.3 /i   40.6 /i          35.8       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     14.7        11.0        8.8             9.1       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.2        3.1             2.6        2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       115.4      177.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..      31.0             15.1       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             98.0       100.0    109.1             102.1      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   94.0        92.0      94.0            103.9      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        51.0      47.0             60.3       63.0        77.7
OF WICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0        29.0      24.0             26.7       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.3           ..     12.1              8.7        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7        58.5      60.9             62.6       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          100.0 /I     70.0      97.1             56.9       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        63.0      64.0             60.7       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               *-        88.0      86.0             78.0       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..        28.0       33.0            34.9       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        47.0      48.0             61.1       30.9        70.3
URBAN                               *-        75.0       73.0            80.3       45.4        90.7
RURAL                               ..         8.0       13.0            25.4       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2400.0      2170.0    2180.0           1899.3     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3740.0      2040.0    1920.0           1220.1     1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            580.0       510.0      530.0           422.3      493.9        275.4
URBAN                               ..          ..      320.0           258.2      229.6        129.9
RURAL                               ..           ..    9670.0          2281.6     2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         23.0      25.0            25.6       22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         6.0        5.9             5.2        5.2          3.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               ..        5.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..              ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..             2.0        2.0          0.9
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..             2.1        1.5          0.8
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             2.7        2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             47.0 /f        ..        *-            51.2        64.1        59.2
URBAN                             83.0 of        ..        ..            77.3       67.8         78.0
RURAL                              8.0 71        ..        ..            12.8        34.1        12.5



-23 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6 pages
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                                  /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Ab     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  77.0         98.0      105.0            103.5        99.8         97.6
FEMALE                77.0        100.0      108.0            102.9        93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         23.0       36.0             37.2        33.8         47.8
FEMALE                11.0         22.0       36.0             37.9        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 31.0 /k        21.0       17.0             14.7        12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                             38.0         38.0       33.0             32.8        34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                           11.0         17.0       19.0             17.8        22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0         73.0       81.0             74.9        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         11.0       15.0             26.9        12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         139.0        105.0      117.0            173.5       104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          11.0         38.0         ..             69.4        28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCGLATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   56.0        109.0       69.0             72.8        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        6.8              4.3         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       5100.0 /f   6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    18.9         24.6       24.6             21.4        25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               47.0 /f      39.0         ..             37.8        46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2         21.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.6         29.7       29.7             30.8        33.8         33.7
MALE                                  49.8         44.9       44.7             47.2        48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                11.6         14.6       14.6             13.2        17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.8          1.6       1.6               1.7         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2 /f.l   31.9 fL   27.2                 28.9        23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7 /         60.1 /1   54.4              57.7        52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1 /f,l    3.5 /1    5.2                  3.2         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8 /f1   10.1 /I   14.3                  10.7        13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..            251.9       191.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      145.0            200.6       193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      154.0            403.1       319.8        448.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..      153.0            258.0       197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       24.0             24.8        19.8         23.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..       55.0             65.2        35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976); /f 1964; /R 1951-64; /h 1964-70; /i Official estimates
based on registration data show crude birth rate for 1960 as 39.0, average 1961-70 as 36.0 and average
1971-76 as 31.0; /I Registered only; /k Includes teacher-training at the third level; /1 Economically
active population.
September, 1978



- 24 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6 pages
COY TO COLNTRISS BY REGION AND INCOME GROUP/a
_                        CeDI~~~~~Lotoc Surpcag
Region/I-ncon  Group               Lov IncT-elb                       Lower Middle                InercediaCe  Middle                   Upper Middle            High I-cle/f                 Countries
Incoueac                      Ixoc/I d                             IntoOe/a                                        Gil EPourtera
3enin                   malai              Agegola                   ihana                                   R(ihouti                   Gebon
Burundi                 Mali               Hota-ani                  Ivory Co.et                             Reunion
Central African  ep.   M.oathbique         C    -eron                Mauritios
Chad                    Saiger             Cape Verde                Nxibih
Conorne                  Ananda            Congo, PR,                Seychellaa
Ethiopia                 Sierra L.nce      oquatorisi Guin-a
AFRICA SOUTH          GarAbia, The             Sonalia           Lihelia
OF SAHARA             Gui..a                   Ta-cania          Mauritania
CuiOO*-Bia.au           Togo              Nigeria
K-nya                   Ugand              Rhodee.ia
LeSotho                  Upper Volta       Sax Toe & Pri-oipe
Madaga-car               Zaire             Seega
loacilond
NOTH AFRICGu          EGgypt                                     Maroc-                     Algeria                                Hebraic                    leraxl                       Kuneit
ANRTH ARICA           Y- Anet                                                              Jordac                                  Irac                       ones                        Lihva
4EG A I"IDDL          Yep n   P.DR.                                                        Syrian  .R.                             Iraq
GAST                                                                                       Tuniiai                                 Lehanun                                                SUit%  Axehir
Onited Arah tnir.
Alghani aca              aldi-na
Hangladxah              Nepal
SOUTH ASTA             Hhutan                  p oiacan
RcrIF-                  Sri Lank.
Ind ia
Ca,,hodia                                 Neo Hehrids                Chin-, Rep. of                          Fiji                        nericen Sanca
Indoccaia                                  Papua Nen Guinea         Gilbhrt Golande                          Hong Corg                 Brunei
OAST AUTH             Lao P.D.R.                                 Philippinee               K-ota, Rep. of                                                     Franch Polynelio
Solnoon 11-ande                           Thailand                  Macau                                                               Uta
VTet Nan                                   Tongs                    MaL    ia                                                          NRa  C.aledoti.
we-tern S.atoa           UrPO  TU -rtory of the Pacific                                      Singapore
IaitGBl MuinG                                                       Alnttgua           Guatexal             Argentina                  Eahanas
El Salvador               Reline-           Gatic                 Marbadna                  B-rnuda
LASIN AMgRICA                                                    Guyana                    GoLobi=           M... arench Gai.no                               Martiniou
AND CARIIHCEAN                                                   hnduras                   Costa Rica         ParagvuU             Guadeiocpo                 GenezeeI
sU. Vincetn              D nica             Peru                 NetihenVndo  Ontillee       Virgin Iola-ds (U SA)
Dainican Rnp.   St. Kiltl-N-via         Panraa
EctOdor           St. Lucia             Puerto - ico
Sur ina=e
Trinidad I loibgo
Otuguny
Tur-ey                                  Cyprue                    Channel  sleoda
Tal. of Men ..erox Telende
EUROPE                                                                                                                             Mal t                      Gihralcer
Portugal                  creaca
innanta                   Greenland
Yugoelavia                 Spa,.
Auetra ia         Finland                       SIaly               Nortay                  Uiloed S-a-ee
INDUSTRIALIZED        Austria           France                        Japon                Suuth Africa
COCNTRIES             Belgiu=            Geacany FGd. Rep. of          Lun--rug            Sweden
C-nodo            I-oland                       Netherlands S-iteenind
D-Lpaark          Irnlaxd                       N.. Zaala-d         United  tiogdon
Albania           Garnot D.nc  Rep.          USSR
Ruigaria          Hnngary
CENTRALIY ?LANNED    China ?.R  of    Korea Dn. ap, of
ECONOMIES             Cob               M'ongolit
,ee-hnelvaksia   Pulaod
n sed on 7 lA GNPC po  capita    1976 ITS dollars.
7i  s5O or Ieee per capit.
/c  2IHI-55C per capit.
,'d  55. .-1125 par t pita
/   5136-2500H per ca pit,.                                                                                                                                                                            F'Ucu
/f  over $2500 per capit.



- 25-                                                AWEX I
Page 4 of 6 pagea.
DEFINITIONS OF cOCIAL INDICATORS
Noe:Although the d.ta are drawn frce  sources genrarlly judged the ..Sr authoritative and reliable.  it should alse be noted that they may not be inter-
nationallv ocpaprable because of the lack of etandardiced definitionse and concepts used by different countries in collecting the data.  The data are, nonethelasa,
useful to describe order of magnitade, indicete trends, and characterize certain maJor differencee between countries.
The adios td ro-p avr nfor each Indlootor ere papulation--ighrsd geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the, nat
pop.l.ted coantry in each group.  Coverage of countries osoog the indicetors depend. on availability of data and is not sunfferm.  Due to lack of deta,
gronp averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of .-.es. to water and excrete di.po.al, hoasing. income distribution and poverty are
dimple population-weighted geosutric means without the ...1.iuson of extreme -liuee.
LAN p   E  fti-nuod sq. kin)                                                                Fopulation per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Ttota  eurface area comprising lend area and inland waters                           urban, sand rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bode
Aoriicultural -- Mast recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  avallable in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation  centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staf fed by
lie fallow.                                                                                at least one physician.  tEtabli$hments providing principally custodial
care arre nut included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and madi-
iNP PSI CAPITA (Ull) - GNP per capita estImates at current market prices,                     cal cancers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1971-77 basis);                  liatent. nurse, midwife, etc.) which nffer in-patient accomqodatim and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                                 provide e limited range of medical facilities.
Admissiona Per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or diechargee
ENERGY CONSUMSPTION PER CAPITA - AnnualI consumption of commercial energy                     from  hospitals divided by the, umbar of beds.
(coel and lignite, patrolsum, naturel gse  sad hydro-, ula  and ge-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average sins of household (persons Per household) - total. uybso. mad rural -
POPUL,ATION AND VITAL STATISTItS                                                              A hou...hold ccnsiato of a group of individuaLle who share Leing "tweters
Total poplation, mid-vest (nillio.a) - As of July 1; If not available,                       and their miai  "Alm.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included In
averageof two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                               the household for statistical purpoaea.  Statistical definitiona of hoses-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may effect comparability                     Average number of Persons per ron - total, urban, and rural - Average as-
of data an,ong countries,                                                                  bar of persons per room  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventiemal
Population density.                                                                          dwsllimg.. reapectivaly.  Dwellings eaclude non-peemgenet strecteese i
Per  sq. ko.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (IOD bectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (Dercent of dwelliaes) - total. wrbe.  md rsxal -
Per so. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters an percentage
only,                                                                                     of total, urbani, and rural dwellings respectively.
Poplaio  ass rstructure, (percet) -' Children (0-lb years),wokn-g
(15-6   er)   n   eie   (6 5 years and ov.r) es parcantages of mid-                   BDVCATION
peer population.                                                                           =     arlsutTl9
Population growth rate (percent) - total. end urban - Compound annualvshol-toa,ndf miae - Total sand f male enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the, primary level as percentages of respectively prismary seceol-age
1960-70. and 1970-71.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but edjimtel 6gm
Crude birth rate_(per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for coumtries with miwersol edm-
mid-year populetion; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enollumet may easeeod 100 percent since some pwils man below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat receat estimate,                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (Par thousand) - Annual detath  per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total.    d fmale - Computed as above; oeaomany sense-
year population; ten-year arithmetic overags ending in 1960 and 1970                       ton requires at least four yrear  of approved primary imetrgatism; pm.-
and flo-yea  average ending in, 1975 for meat recent estimate.                            videe ganeral vocational, or tesober training instructieme for pepils
Grose reproduction rate - Average number of daught.ra a momn will bear                       usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses axe goesally
in bar normal teproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960.                    Vocational enrollment (percent of aecondaryS  - Vocational imaatttmtiu; in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           eluds techoical, industrial, or other progress which operate iaiepoent)w
Family planning - acceptors,_annul  thosad     - Annual. number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - eriery  ed ien                  - Tetal studeets sexelled is
plenning proeran.                                                                         primary sand s.condary levl  divided by ambers of teachersl in Shewsrre-
Pamily PIl.nnIng - users  pcn  of married women) - Percentage of                             sponding levels.
married women of child-bearrintg age ( 15-44 years) who usee birth-control             Adult literacy ra,te (percent) - Literate adults (able to reed mg write) e
devicee to all married won  in sam  age group,                                             a  ecntageo  total adult populationk aged 15 years sod wr
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       C0gSIFThITOS
Index of fond production par capita_(197D-100) - Index, number of psr                    Pasne   as(a  tosn   ouaim    - Passengr Carl comrise meter care
capita anhual production, of all food csowditias.                                       sa ingle  than eitght. persons   ecludes ebulances. barsee   md  ilitary
Per capita. suply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vmhicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand posuletion  - All types of receivers forc reEl
per dayc.  Available supplies comprise domestic production. imports lees                broadcasts to general public per thousand of populAtios; smeludoo welAsseit
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies aexlude animal feed, asads,                rzceivsr. in countrie.s ad in yasra when cgetrstiaa of ro&". sets Vis ft
quantities used in food proc..ssing, and losses in distribution.  Rs-                   effect; data ton recant yeers may not be comarable, ainee, mat cosatrlse
quirmentsr were estimated by PAO based on pbysiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
sm1 activity sand health cons.idering enviroumental temperature, body                  TV receivers_(pe- thousand_population) - TV receivers for brnaiceet to inesseri
weights, age sand sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per chousand population;  *etludee unlicensed 'TV receivers io tool'
cent for waste at household level,                                                        tries end in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per Capita supply of protein (arams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thouaand posulation) - Shm.e the evgS'ge circulai-
capita net supply of food por day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspapear"v, defined as a periodical pAILi-
above.  Requirements for all c.ontries established by USDA provide fur                    cation devoted primarily to recording go"rel onew.  It is conaiered to
a muinimu  alloweance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal sand pulse protein, of which 15 groanu should be animal protein.             Cinemau annual attendance par capitampe over - Based on the numer of ticAets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including adisos to drive-in cinam s ad mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the ourld, proposed by                       unite.
FAD in the Third World Food Survey.
Pet capita protein supply from animal sand pulse - Protein supply of food               EbMPLOYMENT
derived from  animlsaed pulses is grams per day.                                       Total labor farce (thousands) -  cnmclyactive Parsons   including &rine
Child (saca 1-4) mwrtality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thou.-                   farces and unumployad but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 yearn, to children in this age grasp.                                tions in various countries are not comparable.
Fsmale (percent) - P-enl labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, huanting end fiebiag
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average numher of yeasr  of life                         as percentage of total lebor forte.
remaining or birth; ..auslly fire-year averages ending in 1960. 1970.                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in minIng, construction, manufactusring enbd
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water end gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant nortality rate (per thuusand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Farticipation  rate (percant) - total, male, and female - Total, male, sod
one year of age per thousand live, birhts.                                                female labnr force  as percentages of their respective populations.
AIcce:s to safe water (peruent nf population) - total, urban, end rural -                   These are 110's adjusted participetion rates reflecting  e-sam-o
Number of people (total, urban, sand rural) witb reasona.ble access to                    structure of the population, snd 1ong time trend.
safe water supply (includes rate..td  -ufac. waters or untreated but                   Economic dependency ratio - iLatin of population under 15 sand 65 aod over to
ancontanin atd water much so that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 yeara.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or atandpust located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from  a hous.e may be considered as being within rz.-                  Percentage of prioste intnem  (both in cash and hind) rmc..ived by richest 
sosablaaca of that houne.  In rura  areas reasonabe soc..s -ouId                          percent, richest 20 perce..t. poorest 20 porcent. sand poorest 40O percent
imply thatctha:         iuwf  or memer  of th  haushold do nat have to                    of households,
pspnd a disproportionate purr of tho day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                              n           POVER TY TARGET GROUPS
4ccmae to em"vta diso earcoent of Populatian)   total, ur_ban, andInIated absolute poverty income level (US$ Per capita) - urhen sAn  rural-
iffAl - Numer  sof paople (total, urban, sand rural) ser ved by excreta                     Absolut. poverty Incoma level is that imooma, level below which a minimal
disposal me perrentages of their res pective yapuletinne.  Excrete                        ndtritionally edequste diet pl.. essential rnu-fQ0drogslrpamiLin met~
disposal ma-y icdothn call1r.u  a.n d diepos... w,ith or without                          affordable.
treatment, of human ...creta mud or-wtrby -,tr-hbrnesy.teun                            facinct.d relative poverty income level (USS Per capit&) - utban. and raral-
or thc use of pit privIes and sioilaniutlatos                                             RelatIve poverty income level is that incone level less than one-third
Puoulatn prhyci   - PopuItat In di,idnd by nuob- af prooticing                              per capit. pers...al incame of the country.
pbysiciar- qualifiod Prom a medical euhool at university level.                       Eotimated population beo    oetyicm   eel (percent) - urban and rural-
Population cn- nrainE nero   - Populatian divided by number of                              Perccant of population (urban sand coral) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing ..Ie and female graduate  uso  practicl  -uren, sand                            re.lative poor' whichever Is greater.
.asiotarit curses.
tEonmic sand Social Data Division
Sco...mi. Analysis and Prnjectione Department



.26 t                                                                     _8X I
ECAfUC DWBWM9W  DATA
(In Mlilios  of US Dollr.)
1967-69                     *Xtit-td                                        P.7ojcted             Aveag  Aeois Oteth lItee                     As Prreot of GDP
Av-ego         1974          1975           1976          1977          19                                      1975-77     197-82       1974          1977         1982
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                    1976 POInto  and  Bi n Rates
Gross Dpotoeic Product               9,660         14.073        14,602        15,239         16,135        17,180        22,452       * 6.5          5.1          6.9        100.0         100.0        100.0
Golno 7oon Te.n  of Trade (+) -751                    -                                i       -455 978        453                              -62                             2.9           6.1          0.3
D--oso toeotic InCO_e                 8,909        13,678        147           15,239         17,113        17,633         22,390         7.4        iSo           6.2         97.1         106.1         99.7
Iepuoc (l-d. NFS)                    1,491          2,306         2,152         2,320          2,543         2,950         4,098          7.5         8.7          8.5         16.4          15.8         18.2
been, (foc. 085) (le....osLro) -1.419       -2.06          2 9           2  2            41            .4            3.2            .          22.6         Sf           14.7         21.4          17.0
EIpoource Isp (nl  iS(Ip   g-ry    '72                2                                                     :200[  _E         267         -.     -                  -           1.7           5.6          1.2
Co-suoption Eopodl-cures              7,320        10,676        11,331        11,521         12,633        13,285         16,906         6.5          5.6         6.2          75.9         78.3         75.3
lovs tutor  b   di_d1ures (fnol.
Stocks)                             1,661         3,234         2,671         3,218          3,572         4,150          5,751        11.7        15.6          8.5         23.0          22.1         25.6
Dot-oic SlVing.                       1,589         2,994         2,916         3,718          4,480         4,348          5,484        11.1        26.1          6.0         21.3          27.8         24.4
Natio. a lovitss 1-509                              2,845         2,631         3.496          4,270         4,218          5,227        11.1         27.4         0.1          20 2         26.5         23.3
MERChANDISE TRADE                                     Arnpl Ds at  Current Pric                                                                                                    As Portent of Total
loporto
Capi, .  CGoods                       290           525           510            576           700           917          1,401        10.4         17.2        14.4         34.7          34.2         31.7
Iote,edilt  Goods (Efol. FPols)      254            813           705           811            926         1,079         1,945         21.4        14.6         14.4         53.8          45.2         41.7
Fuel, ed Related Kotorillo              3             6            14            84            131           204            631        12.2           -         32.6          0.4           6.4          14.3
C-oouuptioo Good,                      61           167           166           194            290           334            548        18.3        32.3         13.2         11.1          14.2         12.4
Tot-l Vl-rhhaodise Importo (FOB)     608          1        ,511   1,395       1,665          2,047                         425         16.4         1.1         16.1        100.0         100.0        100.0
Ecot torc
Of Whioh: Pftiery Product, (aolc
Fuels)                             489          1,103         1,393         1,892          2,415         2,203         3,177         14.5        31.7          9.6         73.8          86.4         79.4
Of Which: Coffoo                    (341)          (662)         (672)        (1,117)       (1,685)       (1.437)        (1,301)      (11.7)       (58.3)      (-2.5)       (-44.3)       (60.3)        (32.1)
.unuf-ctored Goods                    117           391           324           381            381           440            875        22.3         6.4         18.8         26.2          13.6          21.6
vottl Mt-chacdio  forotct (F01)      606         1.494         1,717         2,273          2,796         2,643          4,052        16.2        27.6         11.3        100.0         100.0        100.0
Ner-hOtdi,. Trode Idies
Enpurt Privo loden                     21.2          72.4          74.5         100.0          148.2         124.8          128.7
Ieport Foi_u Ioden                     34.0          90.0          93.0         100.0          109.2         116.0          149.8
Tetto  of Trudo Indeo                  62.3          80.4          00.1         100.0          137.0         106.8           05.9
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR (F-ccor Cost)           ADDpl ta at 1976 - fr i.c  uod E.cbhose ERt-a                                             Av-osas A-usI GCroonh Dotes                 As Percoor of Total
Asriculture                         2,9,23        3,457         3,673          3,723         3,916         4,007          4,871         2.8          1.9         5.0          26.5         25.4          23.3
bodusfty and 901000                 2,427         3,588         3,564         3,694          3,953         4,249          5,759         6.7          5.3         7.9         27.5          26.3          27.6
Service                             4.249         6.001         6J36           6.738         7.237         7.725         10.240         5.9          6.6         7.3         46.0          48.2          49.1
Total               79.680                                                    14,155        153006        15,981         20,870         5.1          5.0         6.9         100.0        100.0         100.0
FUBLIC FItAtCE                                         Aeu  11s.. an Current Prties                                                                                                   Ae P ruent of GDP
(Control Covornoent)
Corroor Recofpto                    413         1.148         1,391         1,670          2,105         2.370          3,859        18.6         23.0        13.0          9.5          10.6          10.3
Current Eroedoditure,               262           616           697            751           901         1.115          2,019        15.3         14.3        16.0           5.1          4.6           5.4
Bdg-et-ry 059-i0g                   151           532           694           919          1.195         1,255          1.940        23.4         31.2        10.0          4.4           6.0           4.9
Other Ftblit Sector Saving,         434           -40            70           -37            -46           -74            125          -            -           -                          -
Public Sector Iovest_ent           612            864           909         1,135          1,073         1,271          2,660         5.9         8.6         20.3          7.1           5.4           7.1
Ae  . of DTo,l
SELECTED INDICATORS                                   1963.70       1975-77        1976-82                                               DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECrOR INVEOSTMNIT              Actual
PROGRAM2 AND FINAN8CING                         1975-76
(Average for PFriod Sh06p)
Averago ICOR (Booed ot Fiod                                                                                                         Sooill Sc-or.                                       29.7
I.. e_ent)                                        3.17          3.77          3.21                                                 Agrloulturs                                         11.6
Ieport EBotclity                                   1.16          1.71          1.23                                                 Iodu-rry sod MIiong                                 16.6
DorgioaI D-set(r S0avifoR  Dote                     0.20          0.55           0.24                                                Fos                                                  8.0
Horginul sacloDol Sav-iog  Dtoe                     0.14          0.55          0.23                                                 Trenoport p od Co--unint.oo                         15.7
________________________________________________________________________________________________       Oth-r117.
Total fxpood1torso                                 100.0
LABOR FGBCE AND OUTPUT PMU WOREiE                               TotE  Labor Force
To  %dlioDt                  Of Totl             Gewth Dote                                FINANCING
1964          1973        1964          197?3          1964-73
Ogricuinore                           2.427         2.057        47.3           30.2          -1.9                                  fEral,  .ogroEL  17
lodoet,y                              0.958         1.212        10.7          17.8            2.7                                   Other                                               22.2
Sorvic.                               1.749         3.542        34.0           52.0           8.2                                   TorsO Finonng                                      100.0
Total                                 5.134         6.812       100.0          100.0           3.2
Volvo Added Per Workor (1676 Frfces sod foohsnoe E cos)
Ia OS GDollao                  2 RE Aarapo 8-          0         ah 11t
1964          1973            1964           1973          164-71
Auritultuto                         703         1,517            66.4           88.4           5.9
Industry                         1,837          2,552           135.2         148.6            3.7
Service                           1.730         1,546           127.3           90.0          -1.2
Tor-I                             1,359         1,717           100.0          100.0           2.6
Colvobi Divi: on
SFpt-nbor 27, 1978



AMUIB  I
Pae.   6 of 6 pag
BALANCE OF PAYMNENI. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in Millio.s of US DBilers at Current Prices)
Actual                                         Eartianred                               Projectd
1971         1972          1973          1974          1975          1976          1977          1978          1979          1980          1981          1982
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
EIports (Intl. NFS)                        972         1,205         1,544         1,861         2,137         2,820         3,427        3,350         3,545         4,033         4,615          5,217
Imports (ncl. NPS)                       1.285         1.232         1.422         2.077         2.002         2.320         2.748         3.240         3.818        4.430          5.059         5.770
R.souron Balanc. (X-M)                    -313           -27           122          -216           135           500           679           110          -273          -397          -444          -553
Factor Seroit..                           -169          -191          -203          -173          -243          -272          -200          -187         -191          -222          (-272)         -343
Profits                                 (-71)         (-70)         (-70)         (-55)         (-68)        (-115)        (-114)        (-125)        (-138)       (.152)        (-174)         (-201)
Ether                                   (-98)        (-121)        (-133)        (-118)        (-175)        (-157)         (-86)         (-62)         (-53)         (-70)         (-98)        (-142)
Currant Transfrs (NtA)                       28           28            26            39            28             9            15            17            18            20            22            24
Baaceo  Carreot Acconc t.             -424          -190           -55          -350           -80           237           494          -60          -446           399           -694         -872
Privata Dir-ct                              40veatnent  4B  17          23            35            35            12            42            53            66            82           103           128
Pnblic Medits- and Long-tse  Loans
Dinbr--eoto                              222           354           412           380           383           272           409           468           506           643         1,050         1,194
- RE eaneet,                               -92           -96          -132          -211          -134          -152          -188          -238         -284           -315          -326          -340
Net Diahbr-eeta                          130           258           280           169           249           120           221           230           222           328           724           854
Otho- Medita- acd Long-term L.ama
Ditsb-r-eenrs                            145           139            60            50            76            65            54            63            73            84            96           111
- R Y n. nt-                               -79           -84           -58           -56           -97           -87           -58           -91           -96           -94           -72           -44
No Ditbhre-en-e                           66            55             2            -8           -11           -22            -4           -28           -23           fl0            24            67
Capital Tra-oc- toce n,e,i.                 216           39           -78            63           -98           204            51           -57           -             -             -             -
Change in Not Ro-orv-s (-  - Incre-e)         2         -179          -172            91           -95          -551          -804          -138           181           199          -157          -177
GRANT A0D LOAN COMMITMesTS
Official Gracts mad Gramt-lik              -             -             -                                                                                                                                                  Actal
1971         1972         1973         1974         1975         1976         197
Public Mcdinn- and Long-tern Loans
IB5D                                     153            74           162             8            88            80           306         DENT AND DEBT SEBRVICE
IDA                                      -             -             -             -             -             -             -           Pnblic Debt
Other miltilarrrnl                         6            39            29            65             5            93            61           Ontrstdiag and Diebureed L             1,380.7      1,626.5      1,901.7      2,070.0      2,318.0      2,403.2      2,621.7
Covortener                               109           114            72            52            66           132            57           Internst on Pnblic Debt                   49.5         57.6         77.2        101.1        111.7        122.8        132.0
Stppli ra                                 27            39            31            50            74            43            34           R  pay-aent  oc Public Debt               92.4         96.3        131.4        207.5        135.3        151.8        173.4
Private Ernk                              28            93           190            61           164           169            65           Total Public Debt Service                141.9        153.9        208.6        308.6        247.0        274.6        305.4
lode ,                                                             45           -                                                       Oher DBrh  Service (Net)                 133.1        155.1        126.6        119.6         87.0         67.0         58.0
Pnblta Lo na n. .i.                      _             -               15          -             -             -                           t Tre  Debt bSrvit  (N.t)                275.0        309.0        335.2        427.2        334.0        361.6        363.4
Toc-l Ptblit  Nedina- and Long-tao-
Loano                                    323           359           530           236           397           517           513         Bnrden an Eapoet Eareigs (X)
P.hlic Dbht Barvtc                        14.6         12.0         13.5         16.6         11.6          9.7          8,9
Total Debt Serri-s                        28.3         25.6         21.7         23.0         15.6         12.8         10.6
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                                                     Otnt-tndine on 12/31/77                                               Total Debt Sertire Plue Nat
(Rapayahbl   n foreFig  Currency)                                 Disbt,cad ODl,                  Percent                                        Foreign Inveatnet Incope                35.6         31.5         26.2         25.9         18.8         16.9         13.9
World Back                                                           716.2                        27.3
IDA                                                                   22.0                         0.8                                     Avarag,  T-ra cI Public D bt
Bther Mitoltter-l                                                    152.8                         5.8                                       Icterr ra  7. Prinr Y_or
Gov renta                                                            932.3                        35.6                                         Debt On--cnding and
Suppli re                                                            187.0                         7.1                                         Dibhure-d                                4.0          4.2          4.7           5.3          5.3          5.3          5.5
Prtiate BDukc                                                        552.1                        21.1                                       A-nrtiertion as X Prior Year
BondS                                                                 47.7                         1.8                                         Debt OutaLarding *nd
Public Debtr  c.r 11.9                                                                            0.5                                         Dieb-rsed                                 7.4          7.0          8.1         10.9          6.4          6.5          7.2
Total Public Medinr- and Long-ton
Loans                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,621.9       OBB.l                                     T00D Debt Bo-t-nding and
Dinbtro-d Li                             390.8        453.4        504.5        561.7        633.5        671.6        716.2
IBRD oa 7. Public Debt Outetanding
and Disburond                             20.3         27.9         26.5         27.1         27.3         27.9         27.3
1BRD an 7, Public Debt Service              29.2         30.9         29.1         24.1         31.7         31.2         30.5
IDA Debt Outattodiag oud
IDA  b--ad  li                            19.4         2B.9         23.0         22.8         22.5         22.3          22.0
IDA na . Pu~blic Debt Outatading
and Diebur-ed                              1.4          1.3          1.2           1.1         1.0          0.9           0.8
IDA na X Public Debt Service                 0.2          0.3          0.2          0.1          0.2          0.2           0.1
Culanbia Division                                                                                                                            /1  Ed of p-riod.
Septenber 27, 1970



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1978)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                                718.8      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0                3.9
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                52.3                 .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply       2.0                 .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0               11.7
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2               1.4
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1               3.1
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0               12.6
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   60.0                 1.8
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2              12.3
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0                 .7
971     1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0               4.5
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    5.5                 .1
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0              18.9
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                1.7
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5               12.5
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture        21.0              19.4
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0               39.3
1352    1977  Colombia                         Rural Dev.         52.0              49.8
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica            Agricultural Cr. 64.0                64.0
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de              Communications   60.0                60.0
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   15.0                15.0
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0              90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              25.0
1523 /2 1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8              13.8
1558 /2 1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              24.8
1582 /2 1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             126.0
1583 /2 1978  Colombia                         Power             50.0               50.0
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1978) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593 /2 1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export           15.0              15.0
1598 /2 1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0               100.0
TOTAL                                            1,878.2      23.5
Of which has been repaid                           371.6       1.5
Total now outstanding                            1,506.6      21.9
Amount sold                          49.7
Of which has been repaid             20.6           29.1       1.6
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                   1,477.5     21.9
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                    777.8
/2   Not yet effective.



- 30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1978)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board       0.50      -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans        0.70      -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09        0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment      0.50      -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development          -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles          1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging        -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing       1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock         1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles          5.00   2.60       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism              -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism           0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism           0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing              -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement            1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement            3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining            6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43      -       2.43
Total Gross Commitments                           40.31  13.35      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            26.91   8.23      35.14
Total commitments now held by IFC                 13.40   5.12       18.52
Total undisbursed                                 _                 _



- 3  -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; ULS32 mil1ion, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1978
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing, six
sections in the program are still under construction, requiring about 190 km
of paving. Project completion is now expected for end-1979. The other compon-
ents of the project were completed with much less delay. The Ministry of Public
Works is seeking ways of hastening project execution and strengthening the
performance of contractors. As of August 31, 1978, US$28.1 million (88% of the
total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:    Original - June 30, 1977
Current - June 30, 1978
The project was completed and commercially operational in mid-1977,
two years behind schedule, with a cost overrun of about US$86 million (65%).
The delay is mainly attributable to geological problems encountered during
construction of the dam and tunnel. The cost overruns resulted from these
geological problems, from higher than anticipated bids, and local and foreign
inflation. As of August 31, 1978, only about US$200,000 remained undisbursed.
3.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date:  December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of August .31, 1978, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally esti-
mated.  The savings in the loan of about US$450,000 are being used to finance
supplementary sewerage works which were already identified during project
appraisal.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32-                           ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
4.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota I3); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Disbursements up to August 31, 1978, amounted to about 87% of this
loan. Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel
is the main reason for the project's delay; the original contractor was replaced
by another firm which is performing satisfactorily. The project completion date
is now expected for December 1980. In 1977, the entity's financial performance
was excellent. Internal cash generation was sufficient to meet all debt
service and to cover 49t of capital outlays. The financial rate of return
achieved was the 10% covenanted.
5.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. Two
contractors defaulted delaying work on the main drainage canal though a new
contract was recently signed. Settlement of farmers within the project areas
and the provision of technical assistance and farm credit have been making
inadequate progress. The closing date will be extended once the Government
provides appropriate assurance that the above delays and problems will be
resolved.
6.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of August 31, 1978, about 66% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures slowed down project execution.
7.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
The progress of the work has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was carried out in May 1978,



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost of the works at El Penol
and Guatape. The Borrower experienced serious financial problems but recently
adopted substantial tariff increases should allow it to overcome them. As
of August 31, 1978, US$43.4 million or 77% of the Loan amount had been disbursed.
8.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1978
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of August 31, 1978, only US$1.8 mil-
lion equivalent remained undisbursed.
9. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered delays as a result of inadequate budgetary appropriations
of the Government. The Government submitted a proposal to reduce the scope of
the project and to cancel a large portion of the Loan. The new administration
is revising the proposal and the details are expected to be worked out with
the Bank by the end of the year.
10. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1979
Declines in freight traffic in 1975 and the first six months of
1976 (because of an economic slowdown and lower imports), combined with steep
cost increases, resulted in a deterioration of the railway's financial situa-
tion. Since then, the financial position of the railway has been improving as
a consequence of sharp increases of ton-km of freight traffic, and freight
tariff hikes of about 19% in 1976 and 50% in 1977. Improvements have been
registered in other areas although locomotive availability is severely con-
strained largely because of manufacturer defects in over 40% of 88 relatively
new locomotives. Efforts are underway to resolve this problem but early
resolution is not anticipated. Project works are progressing and a substantial
portion has been completed. As of August 31, 1978, only US$700,000 equivalent
remained undisbursed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
11. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1977
current - November 30, 1978
In spite of slow start, commitments are now proceediLng at a satis-
factory rate. The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects. As of August 31, 1978,
US$3.5 million or 44% of the loan had been disbursed.
12. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1977
Current - November 30, 1978
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of August 31, 1978, only US$100,000
equivalent remained undisbursed.
13. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities, although rapid project execution has been effected by the
Government's economic stabilization measures. As of August 31, 1978, US$18.9
million or 70% of the Loan remained undisbursed.
14. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. As of August 31, 1978, only US$1.7 million
equivalent or 11% of the Loan remained undisbursed.
15. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Projection execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flows. As of
August 31, 1978, US$12.5 million or 64% of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
16. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of August 31, 1978, only
US$1.6 million equivalent of the Loan amount had been disbursed.
17. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually fully committed.
As of August 31, 1978, about 51% of the Loan had been disbursed.
18. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its second year of implementation and is fully
operational. There has been a notable improvement in inter-institutional
coordination. Administrative procedures, such as procurement and disbursement,
continue to present some difficulties, but these are much less serious than in
the first year. Control and monitoring of the physical and financial progress
of the project is comprehensive, but there is not yet a sound basis for ex
post evaluation of the project; special studies are scheduled for the fall of
1978 to improve this situation. As of August 31, 1978, only US$2.2 million
equivalent of the Loan had been disbursed.
19. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
The loan became effective in September 1977. About 50% of the Loan
amount has now been committed, including all funds allocated to medium and
large farmers and to machinery contractors. Concern over possibilities of
diversion and substitution of funds, which was strong at the end of 1977, has
led the Borrower to substantially increase its end-use supervision over past
agricultural subloans. Also, inflation has come down to levels at which real



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
interest rates are positive. About one-fourth of funds for credit to
agroindustries have been committed to 28 subloans. The loan is being committed
faster than anticipated. Disbursements for US$16 million have recently been
made for agricultural credit.
20. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project is in a preliminary stage. Completion of procurement of
goods, which is currently in progress, is likely to be delayed by about a year.
This slippage is, however, expected to be offset by speedy bid evaluation and
contract signature.
21. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
Disbursements have not yet started. Initiation of the project has
been delayed as a result of recent changes in management. Commitments and
disbursements are expected to accelerate in the future.
22. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Rehabilitation Program is underway, about three months behind
schedule. Stabilization works are being carried out, with work totalling
US$35.4 million completed; conditions for disbursement of loan funds for
this program are expected to be fulfilled shortly. Implementation of the
maintenance program is in process, about six months behind schedule. Prepara-
tion of studies is proceeding satisfactorily.
23. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress since loan signing is generally satisfactory. The project
organization is fully staffed except for minor delays in consultant recruitment.
Appropriate 1978 programming for major project components has been completed
and the Government has budgeted adequate funds to carry them out. Only two
small components the Bolivar nutrition test and a pilot family food production



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
program are running significantly behind schedule, though progress has been
made on both recently. Coordination, management, and monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms are operating effectively.
24.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 1978.
This loan was signed on June 20, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.
25.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 21, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.
26.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Iydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 14, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.
27.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million,
July 1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
28.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1978.
This loan was signed on August 1, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.
29.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project; US$100
million, July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 27, 1978, and has not yet become
effective.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
MESITAS HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 2 years
(b) Agency which prepared project: EEEB
(c) First presentation to Bank: September 1976
(d) First mission to review project: November 1, 1976
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: December 7, 1977
(f) Completion of negotiations: October 13, 1978
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: February 28, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
In view of the experience gained by EEEB with the first three
projects, no special implementation actions are required.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following assurances have been obtained:
(a) the services of consultants and of the senior financial advisor
will be obtained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower (paragraph 50);
(b) EEEB would earn an annual return of at least 12% from 1978 onwards
on its revalued net fixed assets in operation (paragraph 61);
(c) EEEB would generate internally 73% of its total requirements for
investments in fixed assets and contributions to ISA over the period
1981-84 (paragraph 61);



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) EEEB would, unless the Bank would otherwise agree, maintain
an annual debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5
(paragraph 62);
(e)  EEEB would not undertake investments (in addition to the project,
any other generation expansion in excess of 100 MW which would be
economically justified as part of the national power expansion
program and for which adequate financing would be available, its
obligations to ISA and investments in transmission/distribution
of US$45 million equivalent in each of the years 1979-82) in excess
of 1% of the value of net fixed assets in operation (paragraph 62);
(f) the results of the study on asset value would be furnished to
the Bank for comment by March 31, 1980 and, by September 30,
1980, EEEB would exchange views with the Bank on the advisability
of revising the value of its assets, the method for annual
revaluation and the annual rate of return requirement (paragraph 63);
(g) EEEB would put into effect, by April 30, 1980, a revised tariff
and rate schedule, satisfactory to the Bank, which would bring
the aggregate level of prices charged to each major consumer
category in line with the cost of service to such category
(paragraph 64); and
(h) all necessary land and rights of way for the project would be
acquired by June 30, 1980 (paragraph 71).
A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be that
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been made by EEEB for the
balance of project financing (paragraph 51).






-   ;   |   s                4   -      d        X     ~~~~P A  C /F /C          O C E A N                     o, ) .4N
i iLI       '-                    -      vfrd          -S
,{g    X,,:,,   ,   ,  CDZ                                  D
.- .  o . X-     s  -o ''    '  ''  '  --  o'                                                 '7-                                  s
.  i  i  O  a > J <5' n AtnoXr ' J 20
.          'X   s'       :"                f          }    'I                  C  <?            o                Sn'
M                                                      *>_                                     A      
L    0g  *,D t_X~    >Nie    
-  - - 0  5 X    -         ?-^;<  > so2 s wls                                          ag   <<-  e~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
4      ;         D/%                                    4*i  t                \    ~2_be_X&a   



