Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4082 
Project Name 
GUINEA FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE DEVELOPMENT POLICY 
GRANT 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Development Policy Grant (100%) 
Project ID 
P113625 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
Contact Person:  Ousmane Doré, Minister of Economics and Finance 
Tel:  224-30-45 17 95 
Fax: 224-30-41 52 08 
Email: 
minfin@sotelgui.gn
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C ...[.] FI   [ ] TBD  
Date PID Prepared 
July 24, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 4, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
August 15, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Guinea is a fragile country which suffered from the spill-over effects of instability and conflict in 
neighboring countries and which continues to be subject to weak governance.  In the early 2000s, 
regional conflict in neighboring countries spilled over into Guinea, resulting in armed attacks, 
significant destruction of infrastructure and an inflow of refugees.  As a result of political 
instability and weakened governance, Guinea’s macroeconomic situation worsened, with real 
growth averaging only 2.5 percent in 2001-2006, a fiscal deficit of -4.3 percent in 2006 and 
inflation rising to 39.1 percent by end 2006.  The worsening socio-economic situation and 
governance environment led to strikes and civil unrest in early 2007.  The unrest rapidly became 
a
wide political movement demanding fundamental political change, improved governance and 
public service delivery. After eight weeks of strike and political action, resulting in violent 
clashes and over 100 deaths, an agreement on the formation of a government of national 
consensus was made between the unions and the President.  A new reform-minded government 
came to power in late March 2007 under the leadership of Prime Minister Lansana Kouyaté.  
The political situation remained tense in the first half of 2008, compounded by the impact of 
world food and fuel price increases.  A threatened general strike in early 2008 was only avoided 
by last minute negotiations with the trade unions.  Finally, the Kouyaté Government was 
dismissed by presidential decree on May 20, 2008, after having exhausted its credibility to bring 
visible change in the living conditions of the population.  The rise in food and petroleum prices 
further undermined its range of options.  The new Prime Minister Ahmed Tidiane Souaré 
declared his intent to continue with the reform program initiated under the Kouyaté Government.  
Guinea is richly endowed with natural resources, but remained one of the world’s poorest 
countries.  The country fares poorly in most indicators related to human development and the 
Millennium Development Goals.  It ranked 160th out of 175 countries in the 2007/08 UNDP 
Page  2
Human Development Report.
1
Life expectancy at birth is reported at 54 years. Infant mortality 
in 2005 was estimated at 91 per 1,000 live births, and the mortality rate of children under 5 years 
stands at 163 per 1,000. Thirty five percent of children under 5 are chronically malnourished and 
26 percent are underweight.  The adult literacy rate is 28 percent, whilst the gross enrolment rate 
for primary education is estimated at around 78 percent. 
Food insecurity is a chronic phenomenon in Guinea. Six percent of rural households are severely 
food insecure,
2
35 percent of the population has regularly problems to meet minimum daily 
caloric requirements and 9 percent of children suffer from acute malnutrition. Rice is the main 
staple food, accounting for about 48 percent of the caloric intake of the poorest quintile of the 
population. About a third of the annual national rice consumption is supplied though imports 
which represent almost 70 percent of all food imports.  The urban population, a third of the total 
population, depends on imported food. Higher imported food prices affect particularly negatively 
about one third of the Guinean population that resides in urban areas (60 percent of which live in 
the greater Conakry area). 
2. Objectives 
 
This proposed operation would provide the authorities with needed fiscal space to compensate 
for the lost revenues in 2008 resulting from the temporary reduction of customs duties on rice 
imports for the period June to end October 2008, estimated to amount to US$ 2.5 million.  The 
support would help mitigate the impact of such price increases, especially for the urban poor who 
rely heavily on imported rice, and would contribute to continued basic service delivery for 
vulnerable groups.  
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed development policy grant meets all the requirements under the framework of the 
Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP).  Guinea is an IDA-eligible country which is a net 
importer of both food and fuel.  It is therefore highly vulnerable to price fluctuations for both 
commodities.  The proposed grant is being undertaken under the Global Food Crisis Program 
(GFRP), which was endorsed by the Board on May 29, 2008, and will be financed out of the 
Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund.  The objectives of the proposed GFRP are to: (i) reduce 
the negative impact of high and volatile food prices on the lives of the poor in a timely way; (ii) 
support governments in the design of sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse impacts of 
high and more volatile food prices on poverty while minimizing the creation of long-term market 
distortions; and (iii) support broad-based growth in productivity and market participation in 
agriculture to ensure an adequate and sustainable food supply response. 
1
Human Development Report, UNDP 2007/08 Report. 
2
World Food Program, 
Impact of High Prices on Food Security and Nutrition,
”
May 2008. 
Page  3
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE DEVELOPMENT POLICY TRUST FUND  
2.5 
 Total 
2.5 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangement  
 
The government has established a Food Emergency Crisis Committee under the authority of the 
Prime Minister and supported by a technical unit to coordinate, monitor and evaluate its global 
response to the crisis.  Within this broader coordination arrangement, the administration of the 
proposed operation will be the responsibility of the MEF and the Ministry of Commerce and 
Competitiveness. Both form the National Consultative Permanent Committee for Price 
Competitiveness. The committee is charged to monitor the implementation and the impact of the 
tariff reduction on rice. In particular, the committee has negotiated with importers a formal 
agreement which allows for tariff reductions on rice imports against additional disclosure and 
monitoring of import and sales contracts as well as of margins. If the agreement is violated, the 
granted tariff advantage is declared void and has to be repaid. The participation of importers in 
the agreement is on a voluntary basis. While there is no declared price for rice, a price ceiling of 
GNF 190,000 for 50 kilogram of rice is targeted. The mechanism is reviewed once a month. 
Price monitoring is exercised permanently. The implementation of the overall reform effort will 
be reviewed by the government in close coordination with regular Bank missions to ensure 
continued implementation of the program within an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The measures supported by the proposed grant are expected to have a significant positive impact 
on poverty reduction.  By providing the authorities with needed fiscal space to compensate for 
the lost revenues resulting from the recently reduced customs duties on rice imports (25 percent 
broken), the operation would help mitigate the impact of such price increases and contribute to 
continued basic service delivery for vulnerable groups.  Also, t
he
government’s policy 
clarification that there is no export ban on agricultural products in place since end 2007 is 
expected to ameliorate food security.   
First, Guinea remains highly vulnerable to commodity price changes. Further increases in world 
food and fuel prices may undermine macroeconomic stabilization efforts and the impact of the 
government’s program on the poor. Also, further worsening of the external environment may 
lead to increased political and social instability.  These risks are mitigated through intensive 
monitoring by the government and dialogue with donors and, in the case of further significant 
increases in food and fuel prices, may require additional measures to sustain the fiscal balance 
and macroeconomic stability.  The risk of further social and political instability is mitigated by 
the broad commitment from government and the trade unions to the objectives of the economic 
program and willingness of development partners to support the economic program with 
additional financing, in case needed.  Second, the goal of creating fiscal space to protect critical 
Page  4
expenditures could be made more difficult in the event that revenues and grants fall significantly 
short of targets or if substantial new and unavoidable spending requirements emerge.  This risk is 
mitigated by the government’s already demonstrated commitment to protect priority 
expenditures through reductions in less essential spending.  Finally, while Guinea may be able to 
import food (notably rice), the vulnerable and food insecure may not be able to pay for it.  This 
risk is mitigated by the fact that several development partners (including the World Bank) are 
supporting programs aimed at creating income and employment opportunities during this period 
of rising food and oil prices. 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environmental Aspects 
 
The 2006 Poverty Diagnostic and an analytical note on the impact of the rice and petroleum price 
increases suggest that support for rice consumption is pro-poor – with the poor accounting for 54 
percent of the food purchased in the country and spending 19 percent of their household income 
on rice alone. However, while the rural poor consume mostly domestically produced rice, the 
urban poor spend more than half of their budget for rice on imported rice.  By providing the 
authorities with needed fiscal space to compensate for the lost revenues resulting from the 
recently reduced customs duties on rice imports (25 percent broken), the operation would help 
mitigate the impact of such price increases and contribute to continued basic service delivery for 
vulnerable groups.  The government’s recent policy clarification that no export ban on 
agricultural products is in effect, is expected to provide a boost to agricultural production and 
thus ameliorate food security. 
The proposed operation is not likely to have significant negative environmental impacts. The 
operation does not directly involve any significant physical process that would impact the 
environment of Guinea. However, the operation contributes to the government’s financial 
capacity to implement an emergency response policy program, which aims to intensify and 
expand rice production, including through the use of fertilizers.  Potential negative 
environmental impact could include soil erosion, water and soil pollution.  As the locations and 
potential localized impacts are not known in advance, the Recipient has prepared an 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) in the context of the Bank 
supported Village Communities Support Program (PACV, PO65129) project that outlines an 
environmental screening process and includes: (a) guidelines for an environmental management 
plan; (b) environmental guidelines for contractors; and (c) a summary of the World Bank’s 
safeguard policies.  Although Guinea’s policies recognize the need to promote environmental 
protection, and efforts are made to mainstream such policies, including for the mining sector, the 
capacity to implement such policies remains weak. Incremental funding from the GEF financed 
projects integrated into the Phase II of the PACV project is supporting capacity building for 
environmental project screening and increased awareness of environmental issues.  
8. Contact point 
 
Contact:  Wilfried Engelke 
Title:       Senior Economist 
Tel:         202-473-2062 
Fax:        202-614-1302 
Email:     
wengelke@worldbank.org
Page  5
