                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001149



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-92907)



                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.5 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

                                   FOR A

                          FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE



                               January 22, 2010




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Country Department AFCW1
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective as of November 9, 2009)

                Currency Unit = Guinée Nouveau Franc (GNF)
                            US$ 1.00 = GNF 4,800

              GUINEA ­ GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 - December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACG       Aluminum Company of Guinea
AfDB      African Development Bank
ANLC      National Agency to Combat Corruption
BCRG      Central Bank of Guinea
BND       National Development Budget
CBG       Bauxite Company of Guinea
CBK       Bauxite Company of Kindia
CBMS      Computerized Budget Management System
DSA       Debt Sustainability Analysis
ECOWAS    Economic Community of West Africa States
EDG       Electricity Company
EITI      Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
EITI-NC   EITI National Committee
EPCV      National Household Survey
EU        European Union
FDI       Foreign Direct Investment
FINEX     External Financing
GNF       Guinean Franc
GNI       Gross National Income
GoG       Government of Guinea
HALCO     Harvey Aluminum Company
HDI       Human Development Index
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HIV       Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA       International Development Association
IDB       Islamic Development Bank
IFC       International Finance Corporation
ILO       International Labor Organization
IMF       International Monetary Fund
JSAN      Joint Staff Advisory Note
LDF       State Budget
LDR       Budget Execution Law
MAEF      Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
MDGs      Millennium Development Goals
MDRE      Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
MDRI      Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIGA      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MMG        Ministry of Mining and Geology
MOHSA      Ministry of Health and Social Action
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NPV        Net Present Value
ODA        Official Development Assistance
OER        Official Exchange Rate
OHADA      Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa
ONS        National Statistics Office
PSIA       Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PRGF       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRS        Poverty Reduction Strategy
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SEG        Water Company of Guinea
SENAH      National Service for Humanitarian Action
SME/SMI    Small and Medium Enterprises/Industries
SMP        Staff Monitoring Program
SOGUIPAH   Agro-Industrial Company of Guinea
SOTELGUI   Telecommunications Company of Guinea
SSA        Sub-Saharan Africa
TOFE       Statement of Budget Operations and Planning
TOT        Terms of Trade
UN         United Nations
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO     United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
UNFPA      United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF     United Nations Children Fund
VAT        Value-Added Tax
WAEMU      West African Economic and Monetary Union
WAMZ       West Africa Monetary Zone
WDI        World Development Indicators
WEO        World Economic Outlook
WFP        World Food Program
WHO        World Health Organization




                    Vice President:    Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                  Country Director:    Ishac Diwan
                   Sector Manager:     Antonella Bassani
                Task Team Leaders:     Wilfried Engelke
                ICRR Team Leader:      Wilfried Engelke
                                     Republic of Guinea
                       Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant


                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................. 3
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 17

Annex 1. Policy Matrix and Program Indicators...............................................................
Annex 2. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 17
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results ...............................................................................
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ..................................................... 3
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................... 4
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ......................... 5
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents......................................................................... 6
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Guinea Food Crisis
Country:                Guinea                  Program Name:             Response Development
                                                                          Policy Grant
Program ID:             P113625                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-92907
ICR Date:               01/28/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:                 ECONOMY AND
                                                                          FINANCE (MEF)
Original Total
                        USD 2.5M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 2.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 2.5M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:             08/29/2008
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/19/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   07/31/2009         07/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                         Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower                     Moderately
                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:                        Unsatisfactory




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                  Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                  (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural marketing and trade                                     100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                           100               100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Ishac Diwan                         Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:            Antonella Bassani                   Antonella Bassani
Program Team Leader:       Wilfried Engelke                    Wilfried Engelke
ICR Team Leader:           Wilfried Engelke
ICR Primary Author:        Wilfried Engelke


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the grant is to support the Government's Second Poverty
Reduction Strategy by providing the authorities with needed fiscal space to compensate
for the lost revenues resulting from the customs duties reduction of 10 percentage points
on rice imports between June and October 2008. This policy measure is expected to
mitigate the impact of international rice price increases and contribute to continued basic
service delivery for vulnerable groups

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




                                               ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values        Target Years
                   Customs tariff on imported rice between June and October 2008 amounted to
Indicator 1 :
                   2.75 percent instead of the normal tariff of 12.75 percent.
                                            Customs tariff on
                                                                               Customs tariff on
                                            imported rice were
Value              Customs tariff on                                           imported rice were
                                            to be reduced to
(quantitative or   imported rice amounts                                       reduced to zero
                                            2.75 percent from
Qualitative)       to 12.75 percent.                                           percent from June
                                            June to October
                                                                               to October 2008.
                                            2008.
Date achieved      05/30/2008               10/31/2008                         10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   The wholesale and retail margins on imported rice amount to GNF 1,000 and
Indicator 2 :
                   GNF 2,000 for 50 kg of rice, respectively.
                                            The wholesale and
                   The wholesale and
                                            retail margins on
                   retail margins on
                                            imported rice
Value              imported rice oscillated
                                            amount to not
(quantitative or   between GNF 1,000                                        ?????
                                            more than GNF
Qualitative)       and 2,000, and GNF
                                            1,000 and GNF
                   2,000 and 3,000,
                                            2,000 ,
                   respectively.
                                            respectively.
Date achieved      05/30/2008               10/31/2008                      10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   The Recipient has has issued an administrative instruction (arrete) which
Indicator 3 :
                   clarifies that there is no ban on agricultural exports in effect in Guinea.
                   Exports of rice, wood, Exports of
Value
                   patotoes, vegetables       agricultural
(quantitative or                                                                  ?????
                   and fish products are products are not
Qualitative)
                   discouraged.               inhibited.
Date achieved      05/30/2008                 10/31/2008                          10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)




                                                 iii
                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                      Achieved at
      Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                      Target Years
                   The price of 50 kg rice did not rise above GNF 190,000 between the period
Indicator 1 :
                   June to Octoer 2008.
                                            The target value                 The target value
                   Prior to the policy      (for consumers) is               (for consumers)
Value
                   measure the 50 kg bag not more than                       was not more than
(quantitative or
                   of imported rice traded GNF 190,000 for a                 GNF 190,000 for a
Qualitative)
                   for about GNF 230,000. 50 kg bag of                       50 kg bag of
                                            imported rice.                   imported rice.
Date achieved      05/30/2008               10/31/2008                       11/03/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                             DO                        IP               Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1      06/23/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    2.50


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               iv
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Guinea is a low-income, food-deficit country of 10.2 million inhabitants. The country was
ranked 160th out of 175 countries in the 2007/08 UNDP Human Development Report. Infant
mortality in 2005 was estimated at 91 per 1,000 live births, and the mortality rate of children
under 5 years stood at 163 per 1,000. Thirty five percent of children under five were chronically
malnourished and 26 percent were underweight.

Food insecurity is a chronic phenomenon in Guinea. Based on the 2003 household survey data,
6 percent of rural households were severely food insecure,1 35 percent of the population had
problems in meeting minimum daily caloric requirements and 9 percent of children suffered
from acute malnutrition. Food insecurity is linked to poverty, which is estimated to affect 54
percent of the population and contribute to one of the world's highest rates of infant and maternal
mortality.

Rice consumption accounts for about 48 percent of the caloric intake of the poorest quintile of
the population. About a third of the annual national rice consumption is supplied though imports
and rice represents almost 70 percent of all food imports. The months between July and
September are traditionally known as the "lean season" in Guinea, and since a food security
stock does not exist, the Government is deeply concerned about both welfare and maintaining
social peace during this period through Ramadan. The urban population depends on imported
rice. Higher rice import prices are therefore a particular burden on the urban population (about
one-third of the total population).2

Global price increases reached crisis proportions in 2008. The commodity price hike in 2008
translated in Guinea into an increase of the rice price by over 96 percent from June 2007 to June
2008. Similarly, the price of locally produced potatoes and palm oil increased during the same
period by about 80 and 64 percent, respectively. The impact of high world food prices was
compounded by the pass-through effects of higher fuel prices (a gas price increase of 63 percent
in April 2008), which added to distribution costs, further fueling the rate of food price inflation.
Annual inflation, which had declined to 12.8 percent at end-2007 from 39.1 percent at end-2006
due to prudent monetary and fiscal policies, accelerated since then and was 24.6 percent at end
June 2008.

Although Guinea is rich in natural resources, and 80 percent of Guinea's exports are composed
of bauxite, alumina, gold and diamonds, prices for its principal exports, except for gold exports,
remained rather stable during the 2008 commodity price increase due to long term contractual

1
    World Food Program, Impact of High Prices on Food Security and Nutrition," May 2008.

2
  It was estimated that at least 220,000 people could be pushed below the poverty line by a rice price increase of 50 percent alone,
according to a recent analysis, raising the poverty headcount by 1.6 percentage points. The impact would be more severe for the
urban population, whose poverty headcount would be increased by 5.5 percentage points (or a quarter of the urban population).
(Engelke, W. Wodon, Q. , May 2008)




                                                               -3-
arrangements. As a result of the rise in import prices, the terms of trade deteriorated in 2007 by 4
and in 2008 by 8 percent, and reserves did not cover more than one month of imports at this
time.

There was great concern in 2008 that the increases in commodity prices and severe hardship it
created for the population could jeopardize the fragile easing of political and economic tensions
that the country had known since April 2007. Over the preceding 10 years, Guinea had been
plagued by political instability. Starting in early 2000, the country had been strongly affected by
conflicts in neighboring countries, notably Liberia and Sierra Leone. During this period,
Guinea's economy had also experienced low growth and double-digit inflation. In January and
February 2007, strikes and confrontations between security forces and demonstrators in urban
areas were partly caused by rising food and fuel prices.

The political situation remained tense in the first half of 2008. A threatened general strike in
early 2008 was only avoided by last minute negotiations between the Government and the trade
unions. Finally, the then Kouyaté Government was dismissed by presidential decree on May 20,
2008, after having exhausted its credibility to bring visible change in the living conditions of the
population. The then new Prime Minister Ahmed Tidiane Souaré declared his intent to continue
with the reform program initiated under the Kouyaté Government. Underlining this point was
the fact that key Ministers of that government remained in their positions, including the Minister
of Finance. The new Government was considered one of a "broad consensus," reaching out to
the political parties, unions and civil society.

Economic stabilization policies in 2007, supported by an IMF PRGF arrangement, were broadly
successful. Fiscal and monetary discipline helped stem inflation, and economic
activity made a timid recovery (1.8 percent). Fiscal targets were broadly achieved,
in spite of a revenue shortfall, and the absence of central bank financing of the
Government kept monetary expansion under control. The basic primary balance
improved by 2 percentage points of GDP to 3.7 percent of GDP, largely due to the strict
application of monthly expenditure ceilings for line ministries, the suspension of automatic
debits of treasury accounts by the Central Bank of Guinea (BCRG), and the prohibition of extra-
budgetary expenditures and ad hoc tax or customs exemptions. Currency appreciation lowered
the taxable basis in Guinean francs and mining revenues fell short because of costs overruns, but
intensified audits and a growing telecommunications sector boosted domestic taxation to 14.3
percent of GDP in 2007. Monetary policy supported prudent fiscal policies through improved
coordination and reporting, freezing credit to the Government and aligning reserve money
growth strictly to nominal GDP growth. Inflation declined from 39.1 percent at end-2006 to 12.8
percent at end-2007. The nominal effective exchange rate ended 2007 about one third stronger
and exchange volatility eased. In the first half of 2008, the authorities continued to implement
bold actions to stabilize the economy despite the challenging and fragile social context: they
increased the petroleum price at the pump by 63 percent and the electricity prices on average by
62 percent (leaving the social tariff unchanged); reinforced the customs administration by
contracting a pre-inspection company; and adopted a public financial management reform plan.
Also, while Guinea had reached the HIPC Decision Point in late 2000, it had not been able to
sustain its economic reforms under a PRGF since 2002. In mid 2008, reaching the HIPC
Completion point was again possible, based on the then successfully implemented stabilization
and reform program supported by the IMF PRGF arrangement since end 2007.


                                               -4-
It was in this context of fragile social peace, improving macroeconomic management and
progress made towards the HIPC Completion Point that the rise in international prices of food
and petroleum took place. The price increases posed a significant challenge to the Government's
ability to maintain macroeconomic stability, continue to deliver basic services and maintain the
recently renewed yet fragile social peace. In this context, the Government undertook to
implement a series of actions to mitigate the impact of the food and fuel price increases and
asked World Bank support for such actions.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant of US$2.5 million supported the
Government's Second Poverty Reduction Strategy by providing the authorities with needed
fiscal space to compensate for the lost revenues resulting from the temporary customs duties
reduction on rice imports. The policy objective of the grant was to help mitigate the impact of
international rice price increases and contribute to the Government's efforts to continue basic
service delivery for vulnerable groups. The grant was financed through the Food Price Crisis
Response Trust Fund, which was approved by the Board on May 29, 2008.

The grant was part of a broader program of Bank's support to the Government's food crisis
response program which also included additional financing to the Third Urban Development
Project (US$2.5 million) for an emergency urban labor-intensive works program in Conakry and
an Emergency Agriculture Productivity Support Project (US$5 million) to provide for
agricultural inputs to stimulate food production.

The key indicators for the operation are listed in Annex Table 1. They focus on closing the fiscal
gap arising from the customs duties reduction on low quality rice imports and reduction in the
price of rice consumed by the poor.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The Project Development Objective (PDO) and the key indicators were not formally revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The operation supported the Government's program which aimed to mitigate the impact of the
food price crisis.3 While the Government's overall program encompassed an array of short,
medium, and longer term measures, including subsidies to vulnerable groups, school feeding,
and boosting food production and food security, the policies supported by this operation focused
on the reduction of customs duties on imported rice (25 percent broken) from 12.75 percent to
2.75 percent to mitigate the impact of rapidly rising international prices of food, and by
strengthening the Government's stance on maintaining an open trade regime for food and

3
 The Government's comprehensive food price crisis response program is described in paragraphs 49 to 51 of the Program
Document (Report No. 44832-GN).




                                                        -5-
agricultural products, thereby supporting producers in their plans to meet the rising demand for
food and helping ameliorate food security.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

Not applicable.

1.6 Other Significant Changes

There were no changes in design, scope, scale, implementation arrangements, schedule, funding
or allocations.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

Food Price Crisis Response Program

From June 1st to end-October 2008, the Government exempted rice imports completely from
customs duties (thus reducing customs duties from 12.5 percent to 0). The decision to go beyond
the grant supported customs duties exemption (from 12.75 percent to 2.75 percent) was taken by
the Government to simplify the applicable custom procedures, to ease rice imports, and to help
achieve the possible maximum reduction in the price level. The estimated revenue loss from the
reduction of rice customs duties was US$3.06 million (or GNF15.3 million), as compared to an
estimated US$2.5 million if the customs duties had been reduced to 2.75 percent. In addition,
the Government decided to subsidize the 50 kg bag of imported rice with GNF15,000. This
measure was limited to 75,000 tons, estimated to be the minimum quantity of consumption
                                4
during the critical lean period. Furthermore, the rice wholesale and retail margins for 50 kg bag
of rice were kept at no more than GNF1,000 and 2,000 on average, respectively. These
measures, which were the outcome of negotiations and consultations between the Government
and rice importers, unions and civil society organizations in late May and early June 2008,
resulted in the gradual decline in the rice price after August 2008, which helped to mitigate the
impact of the food price crisis on the most vulnerable consumers in the country. The price of a
50 kg bag of imported price did not rise above the Government targeted price of GNF190,000
during the critical period of June to October 2008, and was priced at about GNF130,000 after
October 2008, as compared to about GNF230,000 before June 2008.

With the setting in of the acute food and oil price crisis in May 2008, the Government
established a high-level inter-ministerial committee to monitor rice import arrangement, to
propose income support measures for selected groups, to target rice retail prices, and to develop
a coordinated vision to enhance food security and reduce vulnerability. The committee was
composed of representatives of the Ministries of Economy and Finance, Commerce, Agriculture,
Fishery, Interior and Security, Economic Control, and from the Office of the Prime Minister.


4
    The overall costs to the government of this additional subsidy were about $4.5 million (GNF 22.5 billion).




                                                                -6-
This committee was supported by a working group from the same ministries team.5 Inspectors
from the Ministry of Commerce in conjunction with the Ministry of Economic Control
monitored about 30 different retail points in greater Conakry and verified implementation of the
arrangement with the rice wholesalers (rice importers), whom the administrative directives
obliged to reimburse the subsidy received and pay fines, if irregularities were detected.

On August 8, 2008, the Government took action to clarify its policy stance on the non-banning of
agricultural products. A joint ministerial order (arrêté) was signed by the Ministers for
Commerce, Agriculture, Fishery, Industrial Development, and for Economy and Finance,
clarifying that the ban on the exports for agricultural produce issued in May 2007 had expired at
end of 2007 and was no longer applied. Excepted from this order was the export of rice, in line
with the agreed policies. This exception was ordered to be temporary, in line with program
objectives, to allow for the analysis of trade in rice and the design of measures to address
inherent distortions in the domestic rice market due to alleged substantial subsidies for rice
delivered to the military. The solution to the problem was envisaged to be an export tax but the
precise economic and administrative modalities required a detailed study. However, the study on
rice exports, which was to inform by end 2008 on options of levying an export tax on rice re-
exports, was not completed. Instead, the new political authorities which took over the
government in late 2008 in a military coup after the death of President Conte on December 22,
2008, renewed the ban on the re-exports of rice in January 2009.

In addition to the above measures, the Government took additional measures to mitigate the
impact of the food and fuel price increases, including the distribution of take-home rations for
children for families of five or more members, emergency support to the 2008-09 season for
fertilizers, improved seeds, veterinary inputs, repair and maintenance of agricultural assets,
subsidy of transportation for primary and secondary school students, increased scholarships for
students and increased transport allowance for civil servants.

Macroeconomic performance

In 2008, adverse developments in international markets worsened economic
prospects and put pressure on the balance of payments. The dramatic increase in
food and fuel import prices increased the external current account deficit (including
official transfers) from 2 percent of GDP in 2007 to12 percent of GDP and pushed
up end-year CPI inflation to 13.5 percent (18.4 annual average). However, and
despite a terms of trade deterioration of -14.5 percent, economic recovery continued
with an estimated real GDP growth of 4.9 percent.

Rising world fuel prices eroded the tax margin on the fixed pump price and fiscal
revenue on top of the impact of the currency appreciation on the revenue base which
carried through in 2008. By raising domestic petroleum prices by 63 percent on
April 1st, 2008, the Government temporarily restored the normal petroleum taxation
that was suspended in early 2007. However, and although world prices of oil

5
    The National Consultative Permanent Committee for Price Competitiveness.




                                                      -7-
continued to increase afterwards, the authorities decided to postpone the automatic
adjustment of pump prices to end 2008, stressing the social risks tied to further
domestic price increases (the automatic price adjustment then took place in
December 2008). The impact of this postponement affected government revenues in
2008 which were 15.6 percent of GDP, as compared to a programmed 16.2 percent. Current
expenditure increased from 11.3 percent of GDP in 2007 to 13.4 percent in 2008 and the basic
primary balance deteriorated to 2.9 percent of GDP in 2008 (against a programmed 3.5 percent
and compared with 3.7 percent in 2007).

The macroeconomic performance worsened in 2009 due to the unstable political situation and
deteriorating macroeconomic policies following the military coup and the impact of the global
slowdown. Real GDP growth is projected at zero percent. Bauxite, alumina, and gold
productions decreased by 9, 20, and 20 percent respectively in the first half of 2009 as compared
to the same period of 2008, in part due to the global slowdown but also to the cancellation of
contracts by the military government. Electricity production increased by 7 percent, but remains
a bottleneck for economic growth. Private investment is reportedly low. The regulatory
business environment worsened with the cancellations of contracts in the mining and
telecommunications sectors. The year-on-year CPI inflation decreased to below 2 percent from
April, but is picking up. The monthly CPI inflation rate was 0.9 percent in October 2009 and the
end-year inflation is projected at 8.5 percent. The trade deficit contracted by 77 percent in the
first half of 2009 compared with same period in 2008. Imports shrunk by 38 percent, while
exports receipts increased by 98 percent for the corresponding periods. The measure to
administratively determine the exchange rate, introduced in the third quarter of 2009, has now
been removed. A depreciation of the Guinean Franc is noted, and is expected to continue. Net
International Reserves (excluding the new SDR allocations by the IMF and the recent substantial
foreign deposit in foreign currency for which the origin and the allocation are unclear) remain
stable, but cover less than one month of imports. The external current account deficit (including
official transfers) is projected at 1.7 percent of GDP in 2009.

The primary fiscal balance was resilient until April 2009, but strains appeared from May and are
intensifying. The cumulated primary fiscal balance is 43 percent lower than the projection for
the first half of 2009, and is 39 percent lower than in same period in 2008. For the whole year, it
is projected at 2.4 percent of GDP. The cumulated total revenue excluding grants was 12 percent
higher than for the first half of 2008, but revenue collection performance is slowing down in
recent months. Revenue for the whole year is projected at 14.8 percent of GDP. Total
expenditures increased by 20 percent in the first six months compared to the same period last
year, due partly to rising military spending and a 37 percent increase in the wage bill, reflecting
the hiring of a large number of civil servants at the end of 2008. They are projected to reach 16
percent of GDP. Cash-based management of the budget was implemented through April 2009,
but central bank financing of the government resumed afterwards and increased by 88 percent
between May and October 2009. Subsequently, the credit to the domestic private sector fell.
Reserve money picked up in the second half of 2009. Its level in October 2009 was the double
of that in October 2008. Broad money also expanded.

Table 1: EMERGENCY FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT




                                               -8-
                          Prior Actions, Implementation Status and Rationale

                 EGRG Prior Action                         Status                      Rationale
Reduction of customs duties on imported rice,              Met      Mitigation of the impact of rapidly rising
which is 25 percent broken, from 12.75 percent to                   international food prices.
2.75 to mitigate the impact of rapidly rising
international prices of food.

 Issuance of an administrative instruction (arrête)        Met      (1) Avoidance of welfare losses for the poor,
 which clarifies that there is no ban on agricultural               especially among the food producing rural
 exports in effect in Guinea. However, the export of                population, and (2) maintenance of a non-
 rice is exempted from this policy until a study on                 distortionary policy environment for domestic
 rice exports has been concluded, which is to inform                food producer.
 about options of levying an exports tax on rice re-
 exports to address inherent distortions in this
 market. In addition, the Minister of Economy and
 Finance informs the customs administration about
 this policy stance by issuing a ministerial instruction
 (circulaire) to the respective administrative entities.
 By way of a dialogue with civil society and with the
 help of mass media the public dissemination of this
 policy clarification is being sought.



2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Factors outside the control of the Government

The rapid decline of international food (and oil) prices after September 2008, reaching by early
2009 pre-crisis levels, helped to meet and sustain the program objectives. In February 2009, the
food price index in Guinea was again lower than the one in April 2008. In addition, petroleum
prices in Guinea were reduced three times since October 2008, cutting the price at the pump by
35 percent. Both factors provided consumers additional relief.

Factors generally subject to Government control

The Government's commitment had been strong during the peak of the crisis in 2008, as
demonstrated by the launching of a comprehensive set of measures to address the crisis to reduce
the country's vulnerability to such price shocks and strengthen food security. However, the
commitment to follow through with this program weakened with the decline of international
prices in late 2008 and then the military coup in December 2008, as evidenced by the fact that
the agreed study to analyze the options for taxing rice exports has not been concluded and by the
deteriorating macroeconomic policies in 2009.

Furthermore, the military authorities, in power since late 2008, reinstated an export ban for rice,
specific wood and petroleum products in late January 2009. Although this new decree is more
specific and therefore more limited in its product coverage than the export ban issued in April
2007, it covers rice thus limiting incentives for rice producers.




                                                           -9-
It should also be noted that the decision by the Government to subsidize the 50 kg bag of
imported rice with GNF 15,000 and eliminate customs duties on rice (as opposed to reduce them
to 2.75 percent) led to additional expenditures of about US$4.5 million and US$0.56 million,
respectively, for a total of US$5.06 million, which partly reduced the fiscal space created by this
operation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The generally weak state of statistical data and administrative capacity in Guinea plus the need to
respond in a time manner to the food crisis called for a streamlined and simple M&E design.
The existing relevant government entities (Ministries of Commerce, Finance and Economic
Control) were relied upon to monitor policy implementation. The inter-ministerial committee
established for coordinating and administering the Government's measures targeted to mitigate
the impact of the food price crisis (the National Consultative Permanent Committee for Price
Competitiveness) had also the task to review implementation. By drawing on routine
arrangements of the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Economic Control, the
committee fulfilled its basic mandate to verify rice prices at various locations in Conakry on a
regular basis. It had also the responsibility to sanction rice importers, if implementation of the
agreed arrangement fell short of expectations.

However, the committee appears to have not fully lived up to its expected role after the
immediate food crisis period. While some members of the committee were still active, others
did not participate after early August. Formal steering meetings came to a halt, undermining also
the efficacy of its monitoring and steering responsibilities. The rapid decline of food and rice
import prices after August 2008, questioned further its raison d'être, given also that qualified
administrative capacity remained in short supply and other important tasks took over.
Implementation or evaluation reports prepared by the committee, or commissioned by it at a state
agency are not known to exist. The military coup in late 2008 compounded the weak monitoring
of the program's results.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

While no successor development policy grant was planned due to the food crisis response nature
of the program supported by this grant, there were, however, two investment projects prepared to
support the Government's food crisis response program: (1) additional financing to the Third
Urban Development Project (US$2.5 million) for an emergency urban labor-intensive works
program in Conakry (providing targeted income support to poor urban households in Conakry
through work for cash); and (2) an Emergency Agriculture Productivity Support Project (US$5
million) to provide for agricultural inputs (improved seed and fertilizers) to enhance the
productivity of rice growing farmers and thus stimulate food production. Unfortunately,
implementation of both operations came to a halt after the military coup in late 2008.6


6
  Since the coup in December 2008, the Bank's engagement and activities in Guinea have been on hold as a result
of the application of the provisions of OP/BP7.30, Dealing with de facto governments. The Bank has continued the
operations of its country office, but has withheld disbursements on a portfolio of 14 projects totaling US$357
million, of which US$248 million remains undisbursed. Contacts with the Guinean regime were limited to technical


                                                    - 10 -
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant's objectives, design and implementation
were fully consistent with the Government's priorities and policy response to alleviate the impact
of the food price crisis. The program's design was also appropriate to the country circumstances,
weak capacity, and related poor governance. Finally, the operation anticipated potential risks
and identified reasonably appropriate mitigating measures. However, the political events of late
2008 in Guinea went beyond what the operation could mitigate.

Consistency with Government Priorities: The operation was consistent with the priorities
articulated in the Government's emergency program to overcome the food crises of June 2008,
which was designed after intensive consultation with civil society, and which was articulated in
the Letter of Development Policy. The specific measures and objectives of the program were
also consistent with the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy II.

Program Design: The design of this operation was appropriate and fully consistent with the
Bank's Global Food Crisis Response Program, Guinea's fragile policy environment, and its
economic circumstances. The intervention was coordinated with other donors in the context of a
joint UN response. The focus on gaining fiscal space to maintain service delivery to the poor
adequately supported the Government's poverty reduction program as well as its economic
stabilization program supported by the then ongoing PRGF arrangement with the IMF. The
operation's support complemented other planned medium and longer term Bank intervention in
response to the food crisis in Guinea, as described above.

Relationship with Bank Strategy: The supported operation was fully in line with the Bank's
Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFCRP), which was launched in May 2008, and with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 2003 and the interim assistance strategy then
under preparation which supported the PRSP implementation, notably macroeconomic
stabilization, sustainable growth, job creation, and food security and productivity enhancements
in agriculture.

Complementarities with Other Bank Activities: The operation was implemented in close
coordination with other Bank interventions. Results of a November 2006 poverty survey, data
from the 2002 Integrated Household Survey, and the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
(CWIQ), provided analytical underpinnings on poverty and public service delivery issues. The
operation also complemented a parallel Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund operation which
provided additional financing (US$2.5 million) to Phase II of the Third Urban Development
Project to implement a labor-intensive public works project in Conakry. This short-term income
support was to be followed by a medium term support to enhance productivity in agricultural
production, the Emergency Agricultural Productivity Support Project (US$ 5.0 million) also
financed by the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund. This program planned to rely on the
institutional set-up for the Village Communities Support Program with regards to fiduciary

correspondence on the fiduciary issues. Currently, Guinea is under suspension of disbursements for nonpayment
(over 60 days).


                                                   - 11 -
oversight and implementation. Furthermore, a grant from the then existing LICUS trust fund
was prepared to provide technical assistance in support of the Government's economic reform
program, notably in the area of public finance management reforms.

Alignment with Good Practice Principles on Conditionality: Conditionality was explicitly
aligned with the Bank's five Good Practice Principles on Conditionality. Prior actions were
focused on two policy measures considered critical for the successful implementation of the
Government's food price crisis program, while ownership of the emergency response was
emphasized. The program was also coordinated with other key development partners such as the
IMF and the UN. The accountability framework was customized to country circumstances,
notably through the focus on unhindered trade in agricultural products. Progress reviews were
unfortunately not feasible as planned because of the take-over of the government by the military
in late December 2008, which triggered application of the Bank's OP 7.30 and led to suspension
of all planned missions.

Risks and Risk Mitigation: The operation identified some key risks to the program and identified
mitigating measures to address them. The anticipated pressure on prices, wages, capacity to pay
for food and resulting risk of instability did not materialize, largely because of the Government's
response to the crisis and the support provided by the donors to that program, including by the
Bank through this operation and the subsequent decline of global food and petroleum prices after
September 2008. Also, macroeconomic performance was broadly satisfactory in 2008 thus
avoiding the risk of revenues and expenditures falling significant short of targets. The recent
decline in commodity prices and the global slowdown affected Guinea's macroeconomic
performance in 2009, but the political instability and the worsening investment framework in
2009, also due to the cancellation of contracts by the military government, contributed even more
to the worsening economic performance and a significant decline in planned FDI flows. The
formal suspension in 2009 of the PRGF arrangement supported by the IMF further reduced
donor support.

However, the military coup of December 2008 (a risk partially identified under the risk of further
social and political instability) suspended the previous Government's economic program,
including the longer term efforts to mitigate the impact of food and oil prices. As a consequence
the two complementary operations, the additional financing for the Third Urban Development
Project and the Emergency Agricultural Productivity Support Project, could not be implemented
to achieve a targeted reduction in food insecurity and vulnerability for the poor.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The operation achieved its PDO by providing the authorities with needed fiscal space to help to
compensate for the lost revenues resulting from customs duties reduction on rice imports. The
reduced rice price contributed to mitigate the impact on the poor of the international food and
petroleum price increase. The DPO financing also helped the Government to pursue its
macroeconomic stabilization and reform policies in the context of PRGF arrangement with the
IMF and remain broadly within the program targets in 2008. However, the sustainability of the
Government's policies was undermined by the choices made under the military government
which assumed power in late 2008, leading to a de-facto suspension of the before-mentioned



                                              - 12 -
reform program (both macroeconomic stabilization efforts under the IMF PRGF and medium
term efforts aimed at increasing agricultural production and productivity and strengthening
safety nets) and PRSP implementation.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The operation is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Although the operation's development
objectives were achieved in 2008 and its objectives, design, implementation and outcomes were
highly relevant to country circumstances and development priorities as well as to the Bank's
strategy, the sustainability of the development objectives was undermined by the military take-
over in late 2008 and the consequent suspension of the economic reform program and PRSP
implementation.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

At the time of the design of the operation, it was estimated that a petroleum and rice price
increase of 50 percent (well below the actual price increases) would cause poverty to increase by
2.3 percent, with a 1.6 percentage point increase caused by the rice price increase alone.7 The
rise in prices for imported rice is particularly negative for urban households because it is their
main staple food, accounting for around 45 percent of the daily calorific intake of the average
household. This operation contributed to prevent such an increase in poverty during the crisis
months of 2008. However, the Government has not conducted an evaluation of the impact of the
policy measures adopted on poverty, and given the current status of dialogue with the de facto
government (as per the provisions of OP/BP 7.30) the Bank could not conduct such an
assessment.

The food price crisis of 2008 brought forward on the policy makers' agenda the issue of safety
net policies in Guinea. The dialogue with the Government about strategies to provide immediate
relief to affected population revealed the poor state of preparedness to deliver targeted support to
the vulnerable population. The strengthening of safety nets in Guinea for vulnerable groups was
envisaged for the medium term, building on the emergency measures, with civil society invited
to participate and donor assistance coordination led by the UN. However, the dialogue lost
momentum in the wake of easing food prices and rising political instability in late 2008,
culminating in the military coup.

The clarified policy stance on the export of agricultural produce (prior action) helped in
particular the small agricultural producers which had developed a successful regional trade in a
number of agricultural product markets. It was estimated by the Guinean association of potato
growers that these alone had lost the equivalent of US$8,000 a day, when exports were banned.


7
    See Program Document, para. 4 and 26.




                                               - 13 -
Food security was also strengthened, although the export ban for rice of late January 2009 has
limited incentives for rice producers.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The food price crisis led to a temporary restoration of an inter-ministerial committee, the
National Consultative Permanent Committee for Price Competitiveness, whose main mandate
was to ensure the welfare of consumers through the maintenance of market competitiveness. In
conjunction with the high level inter-ministerial committee formed especially to deal with the
policy challenges posed by the food price crisis under the auspices of the Office of the Prime
Minister, this committee was the entity administering and overlooking the implementation of the
emergency measures, but also the entity which started discussions on the safety net capability in
Guinea. The dialogue, however, did not go beyond initial conceptual thinking and was taken
over by the above mentioned political events of late 2008 which shifted the political focus.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Not known at this stage.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to the development outcome is significant. The operation aimed at compensating for the
lost revenues resulting from the temporary customs duties reduction on rice imports and thus
helping mitigate the impact of international rice price increases and contribute to the
Government's efforts to continue basic service delivery for vulnerable groups, objectives which
were achieved in 2008. The anticipated pressure on prices, wages and resulting risk of instability
did not materialize, largely because of the Government's response to the crisis and the support
provided by the donors to that program, including by the Bank through this operation and the
subsequent decline of global food and petroleum prices after September 2008. However, the
military coup of December 2008 (a risk partially identified under the risk of further social and
political instability) and the subsequent change of the Government's policy stance, including the
interruption of longer-term efforts to stimulate agricultural production and strengthen safety nets,
and implement satisfactorily the PRGF supported macroeconomic program and the PRSP II
implementation, weakened the sustainability of the policy actions supported by the operation.
As a result, the general vulnerability of Guinea to commodity price changes was not reduced
since the height of the food price crisis in 2008.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance




                                               - 14 -
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance was satisfactory during grant preparation and appraisal. The preparation of
the operation was based on relevant analytical work and drew upon lessons from cross-country
experience. The operation fit into an overall program of short-term and long-term interventions
to avoid food shortages and mitigate the impact of food price increase on the most vulnerable
population. This operation was prepared within an unusually short period of 6 weeks to ensure
the Bank's rapid response to the Government's request for assistance to deal with the impact of
the food price crisis. Exceptional collaboration with TTLs working on the other elements of the
Bank's response to the food price challenge and ingenuity were required by the Bank team to
manage the timely delivery of the operation, ensure the targeting the vulnerable groups, and
mitigate the fiduciary and other risks inherent in the food crisis support.

The identification and design of the operation focused on providing immediate relief to rice
consumers and maximum incentive for agricultural producers to respond quickly to demand for
agricultural goods, thus mitigating the impact of the food price crisis in a targeted way. The
operation supported the Government in its efforts to continue to implement its reform program
supported by a PRGF arrangement with the IMF, and aligned with the Poverty Reduction
Strategy II. The identification and design of the operation were fully aligned with the priorities
expressed in the CAS and the ISN then under preparation. The prior actions were appropriately
focused, ensuring maximum ownership of the emergency response. Furthermore, the team was
able to make good use of existing project structures and policy dialogue to phase and structure
the Bank's emergency response appropriately.

The Bank team worked closely with the Government and with other donors (notably the United
Nations) during preparation and appraisal of this operation. This allowed the Bank to coordinate
its support with the assistance provided by other donors in the areas covered. The Bank also
worked closely with the IMF team to ensure consistency with the ongoing PRGF arrangement
and the HIPC process. Coordination with the AfDB was also very close, with the AfDB relying
extensively on work prepared by the Bank in this area.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank's resident office staff was key in
supervising the implementation of measures supported by this operation. The supervision drew
on the M&E mechanisms of the authorities and two consultant reports. Unfortunately
supervision was severely constrained after the military coup of late 2008 (see footnote 6).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                              - 15 -
As Bank performance for both quality at entry and supervision is rated satisfactory, overall Bank
performance is rated satisfactory in accordance with the ICRR harmonized evaluation criteria
guidelines.

5.2 Borrower Performance

Note: According to the ICCR Guidelines, if Government and implementing agency are
indistinguishable, as is the case for DPL operations, a rating and justification is provided only for
Overall Borrower Performance.

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Government's performance was moderately unsatisfactory. The Government's ownership
and commitment to the emergency food crisis response program was strong during the crisis but
weakened afterwards. In the absence of a formal social safety net, the Government was quick in
drawing up a comprehensive response to the challenges posed by the food price crisis.
Stakeholders, civil society and donors were consulted extensively in the debate and about the
orientation of the response. The relationships and coordination with the Bank and other donors
throughout the implementation of the operation was good, until the military coup in late 2008.

As shown in Section 2.1 ("Program Performance") and Section 3.2 ("Achievement of Program
Development Objectives"), the Government achieved its objective to maintain the price for a 50
kg bag of rice beneath a set maximum price and continued to satisfactorily implement throughout
2008 the key pillars of the PRGF supported macroeconomic reform program. Weak monitoring
of food prices, however, left open whether the importers (wholesalers) showed restraint when
prices begun to decline in September 2008. Moreover, the authorities' attention to the food price
policy issues weakened when prices declined. Efforts to strengthen the social safety net were
also overtaken by the late 2008 political events. As indicated above, the sustainability of the
operation's development objectives was undermined by the military takeover in late 2008 and
the consequent suspension of the economic reform program and PRSP implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

There are a number of lessons to be learned from this operation that may be applicable to other
food crisis response operations:

   -   There were advantages gained from keeping the design of the operation simple and well
       focused on the Government priorities, e.g., customs duties reduction on rice and
       facilitation of agricultural goods trade with well identified outcome indicators. This
       helped ensure adequate Government's response to the crisis given its limited capacities.
   -   However, the longer-term sustainability of the Government's food price crisis program
       and overall economic reform efforts was weakened by the military coup of late 2008,
       which undermine the ability of the Government to address future food price shocks
       effectively. While the risk of a worsening social and political instability was identified
       given the country's fragile situation, the death of President Conte precipitated a military



                                               - 16 -
       coup which in turn triggered the subsequent application of the Bank's operational policy
       on dealing with de facto governments.
   -   Given the (anticipated and unanticipated) risks to this operation in the country's fragile
       context, close coordination with other development partners has been indispensable to
       mitigate risks, realize synergies, and improve the leverage in the policy dialogue.
       Collaboration with the IMF has also been important.
   -   It can be challenging to ensure the establishment of an effective monitoring and
       evaluation system in the context of a crisis response operation. In the context of Guinea,
       the Government M&E system worked reasonably well during the crisis but its efforts
       weakened after the emergency period.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

To note: Since the coup in December 2008, the Bank's engagement and activities in Guinea have
been on hold. Management has invoked the provisions of OP/BP7.30, Dealing with de facto
governments. Contacts with the Guinean regime have been limited to technical correspondence
on the fiduciary issues. Currently, Guinea is under suspension of disbursements for nonpayment
(over 60 days).

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable.




                                             - 17 -
                                         Annex 1 Policy Matrix and Program Indicators

Program                                                                             Benchmarks for             Status
                Policy Measure            Indicators         Baseline
Objective                                                                           October 2008
Close the       1. Reduction in           Tariff on rice     Rice customs duties:   Rice customs duties:       Rice customs duties were reduced to 0
fiscal gap      customs duties on         customs duties.    12.75 percent          2.75 percent               percent during June to October 2008.
arising from    rice by ten
the reduction   percentage points
in customs      from 12.75 to 2.75        Forgone revenue    Budgeted revenues                                 Revenue loss from reduction of rice
duties on       percent.                  from import        from rice import       Budgeted revenues          customs duties amounted to US$3.06
low quality                               tariff.            tariffs during the     from rice import tariffs   million (GNF 15.3 million).
rice imports.   2. The Recipient has                         lean season: US$       during the lean season
                issued an                 Wholesale-retail   4.62 million           = US$ 2.06 million
Reduction in    administrative            margin on          equivalent.            equivalent.
the price of    instruction (arrêté)      imported rice.
rice            which clarifies that                         Wholesale margin:                                 The wholesale and retail margins for
consumed        there is no ban on        Agricultural       GNF 1,000 for 50       No significant increase    50 kg of rice bag amounted to not
by the poor.    agricultural exports      export data.       kg of rice bag;        in wholesale retail        more than GNF1,000 and 2,000 on
                in effect in Guinea.                         retail margin: GNF     margin on imported         average, respectively.
                The instructions                             2,000 for 50 KG of     rice.
                exempt rice exports                          rice bag.
                from this general
                policy until a study                         Agricultural exports                              Potatoes, vegetables and fish can be
                on rice exports has                          are discouraged        Agricultural exports       freely exported. Rice exports continue
                been concluded,                              because of the         can cross the borders      to be banned (as per arrêté of January
                which is to inform                           perception of a ban.   without hindrance.         28, 2009).
                about options of
                levying an exports
                tax on rice re-
                exports to address
                inherent distortions
                in this market. In
                addition, the
                Minister of
                Economy and
                Finance informs the
                customs
                administration about
                this policy stance by
                issuing a ministerial
                instruction
                (circulaire) to the
                respective
                administrative
                entities. By way of a
                dialogue with civil
                society and with the
                help of mass media
                the public
                dissemination of
                this policy
                clarification is being
                sought.




                                                                        - 18 -
Annex 2 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Wilfried Engelke          Senior Economist                  AFTP4
Mamady Koulibaly          Economist                         AFTP4
Jane Hopkins              Sr. Agricultural Economist        AFTAR
Barbry Keller             Senior country Officer            AFCGH
Nathalie Munzberg         Senior Counsel                    LEGEM
Aissatou Diallo           Finance Officer                   LOAFC
Wolfgang Chadab           Senior Finance Officer            LOAFC

Supervision
Wilfried Engelke          Senior Economist                  AFTP4
Mamady Koulibaly          Economist                         AFTP4


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                         USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY09
                          Total:              11                     49,097.50
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:              12                     49,352.52




                                          1
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results



          Not applicable.




                2
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results



                 Not applicable.




                       3
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



                  Not applicable (see footnote 6).




                                 4
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



                          Not applicable.




                                5
                   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank Documents

Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant (FCDPG)

  - Rapport d'achèvement du Don de la politique de développement en réponse à la crise
    alimentaire (en Guinée), rapport du consultant Dr. Ansoumane Camara, July, 2009
  - La chaine des valeurs du riz en Guinée, Aboubacar Kaba, August, 2009
  - Program Document for a proposed Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant,
    September 8, 2008, Report No. 44832-GN.



Other Documents

  -   Consumer Price Index, Ministry of Plan and private sector promotion, August, 2009;
  -   Observatoire de prix des denrées de première nécessité à Conakry;
  -   Tableau de bord mensuel de l'économie Guinéenne, No. 61 and No. 54,
  -   Conakry August and January, 2009;
  -   Bulletin mensuel d'informations économiques et de statistiques;
  -   Etude d'impact des crises pétrolières, alimentaires et financières sur l'économie
      Guinéenne. Joachim Lama and Abdoul S. Toure, May 2009, UNDP.

IMF Documents

  - First Review Under the Three-Year Arrangement under the Poverty
    Reduction and Growth Facility (EBS/08/79);
  - Unpublished material pertaining to the second review under the Poverty
    Reduction and Growth Facility




                                       6
                                                             To
                                                             To
                                              14°W           Tambacounda
                                                             Tambacounda                                                      12°W                                                                   10°W                                                                                        8°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                       SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kayes
                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                       To                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                               To                      Kayes                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                               Tambacounda
                                                                                                                               Tambacounda
                                                To
                                                To          Koundara                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Bamako
                                            Tambacounda
                                            Tambacounda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nyagassola




                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MALI




                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                             am
                  GUI N E A-B I S S AU




                                                                      To m in




                                                                                                                                b
                                                                                                                                b
                                                                                                                                bia
                                                          Foulamôri
                                                          Foulamôri
                                                          Foulamô                                                    Mali                Balaki




                                                                             é
                                                                             é
                                                                             é
                12°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12°N
                             To
                             To
                            Bafatá
                            Bafatá
                                                                                                         MOYENNE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Doko                               er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                    Gaoual
                                                                                                              GUINEE                                                                                                 Kintinian
                                                                                                     Lélouma
                                                                                                     Lélouma
                                      n




                                                                                                                                      Tongue
                                                                                                                                      Tongue
                                     go




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To Bougouni




                                                                                                                                                   g
                                     Ko




                                                                                                                                                  fin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Siguiri
                                                                                                                          Labé
                                                                                                                          Labé




                                                                                                                                                  Ba
                                                                                                                                                          Dinguiraye                                              Tinkis so
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         so




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ar
                                                           Sangaré
                                                           Sangarédi
                                                           Sangarédi                                               Pita                                                           HAUTE                               Niandankoro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nk
                           Sansalé
                           Sansalé




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sa
                                          Boké
                                          Boké                                                      limé
                                                                                                  Télimélée
                                                                                                  Télimélée                                                                      GUINEE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nige
                                                   GUINEE                                                                                         Dabola        Bissikrima
                          Kamsar                                                                                Dalaba                                                                      Kouroussa                                        Mandiana
                                                 M A R I T I M oE
                                                                                     n k o ur é
                                                                                 K
                                                                                 K
                                                                                 K




                                                             Fria
                                                                                                                               Mamou                                                                                                    Kankan
                                                 Boffa
                                                 Boffa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                       Kindia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M il
                                                                                                                                                                            Faranah
                10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                              tan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Moribaya
                                                         Dubréka




                                                                                                                                                                                                          an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Di
                                                                                                                                                                              Tiro
                                                                                                                                                                              Tiro                            i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sank ni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i
                                                                            Coyah                                                                                                                         N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sankaran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n
                  AT L A N T I C
                                                                                                            é




                                           CONAKRY
                                                                                                         ent




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                         Foré
                                                                                         Forécariah
                                                                                         Forécariah
                                                                                                        Kol




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Korhogo
                       OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kérouane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kérouane                      Sokourala
                                                 14°W                                                                          To
                                                                                                                               To                     To
                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                            Magburaka              Magburaka                                         Kissidougou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sibiribaro
                                                                                                                SIERRA LEONE
                         G UINE A                                                                    To
                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                  Freetown
                                                                                                                                                                                            Guécké
                                                                                                                                                                                            Guéckédou
                                                                                                                                                                                            Guéckédou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Beyla

                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                               Macenta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GUINEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Boola


                                                                                                                                                                                     na
                         PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                          ko                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Ma
                         REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                        FORESTIERE                                                                      gué
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Séguéla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Séguéla


                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8°N
                                                                                                                  GUINEA
                         RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nzéré-koré
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nzéré-koré
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nzé -koré                      Lola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mt. Nimba
                         MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                        LIBERIA                                                                               (1752 m)           CÔTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ba
                         RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yomou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yomou               im                                         D'IVOIRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                         PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                             Diéké
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dié
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Diéké
NOVEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                               0       20    40        60       80   100 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33414
                         REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                               0            20             40        60           80 Miles                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Man
                                                                                                                              12°W                                                                   10°W                                                                                        8°W
