Docment of
The World Bank                     LEc (AJPY
FOR OFmFICAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2405-Ki
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
March 6, 1979
This doeumet hu  restrieted dltribltM a  my be mod by  cipIents only In the perfoemanee of
their ofSeial dutI. lb  entts mao otherwhie be d iaId_ wIthout World BInk authoriatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =      Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1           =       US$0.125
US$1.00         =       KSh 8.00
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed
rate of 9.66 KSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/K Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to KSh 8.00 which is close
to the average 1978 exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
EAC       -    East African Community
EAPTC     -    East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation
KENEXTEL  -    Kenya External Telecommunications Company
Limited
KPTC      -    Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
STD       -    subscriber trunk dialing
FISCAL YEAR
Government          -        July 1 - June 30
KPTC                -        January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER         :  Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARY          Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC)
AMOUNT               US$20.0 million equivalent
TERMS                Payable in 15 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 7% per annum
ONLENDING        :  Proceeds of the loan would be onlent to KPTC for a
period of 15 years, including four years of grace,
with interest at 10% per annum. KPTC would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
PROJECT              The project would improve telecommunications services
by extending local services and providing high quality
long-distance circuits, and would also provide basic
telecommunications facilities to rural areas which are
currently poorly served. Major components would include
the installation of:
(a) a total of about 46,200 additional lines of
local automatic exchange equipment with
associated cables and subscribers' plant, and
a total of about 46,000 additional connections;
(b) long distance public call offices to provide
services in about 200 urban, rural and market
areas currently without telephone services;
(c) eight microwave radio systems each with a capa-
city of 960 channels; three UHF radio systems
with a total of 540 channels; about 190 UHF/VHF
channels; and multiplex equipment to provide
about 3,100 additional channels;
(d) eleven long distance automatic exchanges with
a total of about 3,600 terminations; and
extensions to existing exchanges by a
total of about 1,800 terminations; and
(e) buildings to house equipment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The project faces limited risks. KPTC is competent
to manage the project, and since there is a relatively
large number of independent activities, delay in the
completion of a few works would be unlikely to
prevent the use of other newly created assets.
ESTIMATED COST:                                      US$ Million Equivalent
Local       Foreign      Total
Local facilities                                 5.1          23.5        28.6
Long distance facilities                         1.3          15.0        16.3
International Exchange                             -           1.1         1.1
Rural services                                   0.2           2.0         2.2
Buildings                                        4.7             -         4.7
Consultants                                        -           1.1         1.1
Base Cost                                   11.3          42.7        54.0
Physical Contingencies                           0.3            -          0.3
Price Contingencies                             2.9            6.3         9.2
Total Project Cost 1/                           14.5          49.0       63.5
FINANCING PLAN:                                      US$ Million Equivalent
Local      Foreign      Total    %
World Bank                                        -          20.0       20.0    31
Suppliers' credits                               -            6.1        6.1    10
KPTC and Government                              14.5        22.9       37.4    59
Total Project Cost                              14.5         49.0       63.5   100
ESTIMATED                                            US$ Million Equivalent
DISBURSEMENTS:          Bank FY                   1980     1981      1982      1983
Annual                   1.9      10.7       5.2       2.2
Cumulative               1.9      12.6      17.8      20.0
RATE OF RETURN:          50%
APPRAISAL REPORT:       No. 2262-KE of February 16, 1979
MAPS:                    IBRD 13951
IBRD 13952
_/ KPTC is exempt from customs duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to help
finance a telecommunications project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7% per annum. The proceeds of
the loan would be onlent to the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(KPTC) for a period of 15 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
10% per annum. In addition to the proposed Bank loan, suppliers' credits from
Hitachi (Japan) amounting to US$6.1 million equivalent would be obtained to
help finance the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Kenya" (Report No.
1783a-KE, dated December 28, 1977) has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. A summary of social and economic data is at Annex I. A Basic
Economic Report on Kenya is now under preparation--the mission to complete the
report returned from Kenya in mid-November.
Economic Structure and Trends
3.         During the first fifteen years of independence Kenya has had conti-
nuity in leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement of
both smallholder and large-scale farming, and the promotion of accelerated
industrialization through incentives for private (including foreign) invest-
ment in modern industry. More recently, policy statements have suggested an
increasing emphasis on poverty alleviation measures even at the cost of a
slight reduction in the rate of economic growth. With the death of President
Kenyatta there is inevitably some uncertainty about the future, but preliminary
indications are that the main outline of Kenyan development strategy will
remain the same.
4.         Kenya is a poor country with an economy still largely dependent
on agriculture. Average per capita income in 1977 was US$270 and agriculture
accounted for 29% of GDP (constant prices) on average during the period
1975-77. Agriculture provided over 60% of export earnings in 1977 and remains
the major source of livelihood for the 90% of the population which lives in
rural areas.
1/   This section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project (Report P-2395-KE of
October 18, 1978).



- 2 -
5.        Growth of the economy since independence has been impressive.  From
1964-73 total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6%. Manufacturing was
the most rapidly growing of the major sectors during the period; value added
in manufacturing increased by 8.4% per annum and the share of the manufactur-
ing sector rose from 10.4% of GDP in 1964 to 13.6% in 1973. Agricultural
growth contributed to the strong overall performance as well. Agricultural
output increased by over 50% from 1964-73, or at an average annual rate of
4.5%. Marketed production in agriculture grew especially fast (6.0% per
annum) but subsistence production also grew faster than population during the
period.
6.        Despite Kenya's impressive post-independence growth record, a
number of problems have emerged which will make it difficult to sustain
growth and to reduce poverty.
7.        The most fundamental problem is the rapid growth of popul~tion in
th2 face of limited arable land.  Of Kenya's total area (583,000 km ), 520,500
km is categorized as potentially agricultural, 13% being regarded as high
potential land, 6% medium and 81% low. Most of the high-potential land is
densely settled. Pressure on the land was alleviated during the years follow-
ing independence by the opening up of a large part of the land previously
owned by Europeans to settlement by Kenyan smallholders. However, with
population growing at 3.5% per annum pressure is mounting. This has resulted
in increasing subdivision and landlessness in high-potential areas and in
settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming. These problems help to
account for the slackening in recent years of the previously high agricultural
growth rate, which fell from 4.5% per annum from 1964-73 to 2.3% per annum
from 1973-77.
8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but it creates other problems as
well. The non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15% of
the total labor force) is unable to absorb all the new labor force entrants
because of its small base. Considerable budgetary pressure has also been
created because of the growing demand for social services. Finally, efforts
to improve the distribution of income are impeded because of the relative lack
of access to land and education for the children of the poorest sections of
the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.  The
rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon investments
in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African Community
(EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the industrial sector in-
creasingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and



- 3 -
therefore vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain
growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of
domestic inputs and increased production for export. This will be difficult,
however, because existing industry has been developing under high protection
and is relatively uncompetitive in world markets.
10.       An additional problem is the stagnation of export volume in recent
years. From 1964-72 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate
of 4.6%. Between 1972 and 1974 export volume increased by an additional 11%
but has not risen above the 1974 level. To some extent this is a reflection
of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is also an indica-
tor of the need to direct more resources into foreign exchange earning activi-
ties. A combination of slow export growth and continued high import dependence
would leave the Kenyan economy very vulnerable to fluctuations in the terms of
trade.
Developments since the 1974-75 Crisis
11.       The Kenyan economy was disrupted by import price increases and by
drought in 1974-75. Marketed agricultural production did not grow at all in
1974 and 1975 while total GDP grew at only 1.6% per annum. The value of
imports increased by more than 50% over the 1973 level and the balance of
payments position deteriorated. The crisis highlighted the extent to which
Kenya, with its import-intensive manufacturing and limited domestic energy
resources, had become dependent on imports.
12.       The Government made several policy changes to deal with the crisis.
First, it introduced measures to minimize the loss of foreign exchange re-
serves and control domestic demand. These included an increase in sales
taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the increases in oil prices to users,
and a freeze on Government recruitment. Second, since its Development Plan
had been overtaken by events, it formulated a medium-term Restructuring
Program with more modest growth and equity targets. Achieving those targets
required restraining consumption in favor of investment, lowering Kenya's high
import dependence and making the economy more export-oriented.
13.       There was a marked improvement in the economy in 1976 and 1977,
though this was largely due to external circumstances rather than to the
effects of the Restructuring Program, most of whose effects are longer-range.
Favorable weather conditions helped agricultural output to grow by nearly 8%
during the two years and high coffee and tea prices transformed the balance of
payments position. The volume of coffee exports increased by nearly 40%
between 1975 and 1977 while the average price received more than quadrupled.
The balance of payments moved into surplus in 1976 and in 1977 there was a
surplus on current account, the first in thirteen years.
14.       The coffee boom also had numerous secondary repercussions.  High
coffee incomes stimulated activity in manufacturing and other sectors, and
also helped directly and indirectly to finance an investment boom; gross fixed
capital formation rose by 22.6% in real terms between 1975 and 1977. The



effect on domestic savings was even more dramatic; the ratio of domestic
savings to GNP rose from 12.5% in 1975 to 18.7% in 1976 to 22.7% in 1977.
Finally, current revenue of the Government increased by about 50% during the
budget year 1977/78. This was matched, however, by an increase in recurrent
expenditure, while development expenditure increased by at least 40% according
to preliminary estimates. In real terms total Goverrment expenditure increased
by more than 20%. This increase was greater than anticipated because of unex-
pected large increases in defense expenditure and because of heavy investment
in transportation equipment occasioned by the break-up of the East African
Community.
15.       As a result of these generally expansionary conditions a short-term
macro-economic management problem has emerged. The total supply of money and
quasi-money expanded by 46.8% during 1977. Consumer price increases accelerated,
with price increases in 1977 ranging from 13.5% for the Nairobi Middle Income
Index to 21.0% for the Nairobi Lower Income Index. Imports also grew rapidly
during the first few months of 1978 at the same time as coffee prices declined
well below the level of early 1977. The full effect of past monetary expan-
sion has probably not yet been realized and continued pressure on domestic
prices and import demand can be expected. In recognition of this problem, the
Government introduced import deposit regulations in December 1978. Importers
must place with the Central Bank refundable deposits equivalent to 25-100% of
the value of imports. This should have an immediate impact on import demand,
but different measures will be required to bring about balance of payments
adjustment over the longer term.
16.       Of more long-term significance is implementation of the Restructur-
ing Program. The Government has made good progress but there are some areas
in which further action is needed. In the fiscal field, it has introduced
procedures to ensure better control of expenditure and increased expenditure
in directly productive activities. However, as noted above, unanticipated
expenditures have temporarily put renewed pressure on the budget. The Govern-
ment has also emphasized agricultural sector development and taken a variety
of measures to improve performance in this sector. Periodic producer price
increases and a strong wage policy have helped to shift the terms of trade
between agriculture and manufacturing in favor of agriculture by over 100%
during the past three years after a long period during which they had moved in
favor of manufacturing; even if coffee is excluded the improvement was close
to 50%. However, the Goverrnment has been slow to formulate and implement
badly needed new policies in the industrial field. While it introduced duties
on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate and capital goods as steps
towards a more rational protection system, increased the sales tax on luxury
goods, introduced an export subsidy of 10% to stimulate the export of manufac-
tured goods and certain commodities, and devalued the shilling in October 1975
to make manufactured exports more competitive, a comprehensive policy package
to eliminate the disadvantages under which export-oriented industries operate
remains to be formulated.
Development Plan FY79-83
17.       The F-urth Five-Year Development Plan is now being finalized.
The m_jor ob_je.-rive for the next Plan period will be alleviation of poverty



- 5 -
through the creation of income earning possibilities and by providing for
basic needs in nutrition, health, education, housing and other social services.
Thus, while the Plan would provide for a large degree of continuity in Kenya's
development strategy, there would be greater attention paid to social
objectives as compared with the ongoing Restructuring Program and the Third
Plan. At the Government's request, the Bank is providing assistance in
developing strategies in urban development and resource mobilization.
External Debt
18.       The current low overall debt service ratio of about 5% (including
a notional 50% share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations)
is expected to rise to about 11.5% by 1985. Including this share of EAC debt,
the IBRD is presently holding 29% of Kenya's outstanding external debt and IDA
11%; the IBRD share is expected to rise to 33% and the IDA share to 12% by
1985. Debt service payments to the Bank are about 30% of total debt service
payments; IDA share is about 1%. These two figures are projected to be about
the same by 1985. Kenya has seen a gradual switch by other donors from loans
to straight grants (including conversion of some loans to grants 1/) or to
loans on very concessional terms and the Government has pursued a rather
conservative commercial borrowing policy in recent years. Despite the recovery
of Kenya's overall savings performance to a notable 22.7% of GNP during the
coffee boom, it is projected that domestic savings will decline somewhat due
to falling export prices and the need to expand recurrent expenditure to
maintain full utilization of capital. Kenya's development program will
require substantial financing in excess of public savings and available
non-Bank Group external capital combined and we therefore expect to continue
our practice of financing a substantial proportion of total project costs,
including some local costs when necessary.
Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
19.       The major developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and
more recent developments were outlined in a statement to the Executive Direc-
tors at the Board meeting held on January 4, 1979. Dr. Victor Umbricht, the
independent mediator appointed by the Partner States, is continuing his work
on appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC Corporations. The de facto
breakup of the EAC has had some impact on Kenya's budget. The establishment
of national corporations to replace the former EAC Corporations has in some
cases required investment outlays as well as operating subsidies from the
Government, but the burden on the Government budget will hopefully be
temporary, as the Corporations are expected to become self-financing. The
closure of the border with Tanzania will have some effect on trade -- Tanzania
was a large customer for Kenyan manufactured goods and new markets will have
to be developed. As Tanzanian exports to Kenya were small, replacing these
should not be a major issue except in specific commodities (i.e. tobacco and
cotton). The border closure has also had a slightly negative impact on
tourism, although Kenya is expected to overcome this by developing beach
resorts and game parks within Kenya.
_T7 Since the amotnts involved so far bavA been relatively small, the
impact of these C nversions on the de%;  service ratio and on the
Bank's exposure h;s be_n marginal.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
20.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 31 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 26 IDA credits amounting to US$857.1 million, sup-
porting 49 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of the
East African Community. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans
and IDA credits to Kenya and to the East African Community Corporations, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of January 31, 1979.
21.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy. In addition to increasing lending in directly productive sectors
(particularly agriculture), a US$30 million program loan was approved in 1975
to provide direct assistance to the Government for implementing its Restructur-
ing Program (paras. 12 and 16). While recent sector and economic work has
also focused on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed
international economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to
comprehensively address the issues of income distribution, population growth,
and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policy.
22.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distri-
bution objectives. Projects approved since July 1977 include the first
Integrated Agricultural Development Project aimed directly at small subsistence
farmers; the Rural Access Roads Project supporting labor-intensive infrastruc-
tural developments; and an Irrigation Project which will open up significant
new areas for settlement. The Bank also supported the tourism sector in Kenya
for the first time -- an effort intended to help Kenya conserve its wildlife
and exploit its foreign exchange earning potential. The industrial lending
program included a third loan to the Industrial Development Bank and a Small
Scale Industry Project. Recently an Engineering Project (Olkaria Geothermal),
a Narok Agricultural Development Project, a Sugar Rehabilitation Project and a
Rural Water Supply Project were approved. A Second Integrated Agricultural
Development Project, a Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project, a Highway
Sector Loan and a Third Power Project have been appraised, and a pilot scheme
for development of arid and semi-arid areas and a second population project
are under preparation.
23.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.
One major exception was the Second Livestock Development Project which was
suffering from inadequate beef prices as well as organizational difficulties
reflecting in part the complexity of the project. The Government increased
beef prices substantially in early 1978 and prospects for utilizing the credit
have now improved. Progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has also
been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to
participate. Finally, Kenya has experienced serious cost overruns, most
notably on the Nairobi Airport Project and road construction projects. The
Government of Kenya has made funds available to complete these projects.



-7-
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
24.        IFC has committed a total of US$36.8 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya.   As of January 31, 1979, IFC held for its owa account US$28.4
million comprising US$20.4 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity. A
summary of IFC investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background
25.        Under the Third Five-Year Development Plan (1974-78), growth in the
economy was greatly aided by a concurrent growth in infrastructure. This
enabled a steady expansion of the agricultural base of the economy, aided the
dispersal of industry into regions outside Nairobi, and encouraged the growth
of tourism, Kenya's third largest foreign exchange earner. As output continues
to increase in these sectors, communications needs grow; telecommunications is
becoming the least cost means of communication for an increasing proportion of
the population. The development program for the telecommunications sector
will continue the distribution of services to regions outside Nairobi, increase
access to telecommunication services in the more isolated rural areas, expand
system capacity, and upgrade the quality of local, long distance and inter-
national telephone service.
Organization
26.        Following the de facto breakup of the East African Community (EAC)
(para. 19), including the East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(EAPTC), the Government created the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corpora-
tion (KPTC) in December 1977 as an autonomous Government-owned corporation
under the Ministry of Power and Communications. KPTC is responsible for mainte-
nance and operation of virtually all local and national telecommunications
services, international telegraph and telex services, and operation of inter-
national telephone services; in addition, it handles all domestic and interna-
tional postal services. Kenya External Telecommunications Company (KENEXTEL)
-- the other operating telecommunications organization -- is a state-owned
company, responsible for maintenance and operation of the international
automatic telephone exchange and the earth satellite station.
27.        The Ministry of Home Affairs and the Aerodromes Department of the
Ministry of Power and Communications also manage some telecommunications
services, but solely for their own administrative and operational needs.
Private users may operate point-to-point telecommunications services after
obtaining a license from KPTC. These licenses are issued annually and only
when KPTC is not able to provide such services efficiently.



- 8 -
28.       KPTC is administered by a seven member Board of Directors.  The
Chairman of the Board, and three other members knowledgeable in communications
matters or in business or management are appointed by the Minister of Power
and Communications. The Permanent Secretaries of the Ministry of Power and
Communications and the Ministry of Finance are ex-officio members. The
Managing Director of KPTC is appointed by the Minister of Power and Communica-
tions after consultation with the Board of Directors, and is the seventh
member of the Board.
Access to Service
29.       Kenya's telephone density in January 1977 of one telephone per 100
population was about average compared with neighboring countries. (The
current ratio of telephones to connections, however, is about 2.4 which is
abnormally high.) Existing service is concentrated in the Nairobi area (10.8
telephones or 5.1 connections per 100 population) while telephone density in
the rest of the cotntry is much lower (0.4 telephones or 0.22 connections per
100 population). In mid-1978, there were 63,311 telephone connections in
Kenya: Nairobi, with 6% of the total population, had 57% of the total.
30.       All ten principal towns (those with populations exceeding 19,000),
73 of the 86 urban centers (district administrative headquarters with popula-
tions of more than 2,000), 62 of the 150 rural centers (divisional admin-
istrative headquarters), 31 of 420 market centers, and 18 of 1,018 local
centers have local and/or long distance telephone facilities. Telegraph
service is generally available except at local centers.
31.       To obtain a connection, a potential subscriber must register on a
waiting list. Connections are made (subject to feasibility and availability
of spare exchange and cable capacity) in the order in which names appear on
the waiting list. The waiting list, which is maintained only in areas where
service exists, presently totals about 24,000: 15,500 in Nairobi and 8,500 in
the rest of the country. Waiting times for telephone applicants in Nairobi
can be up to four years depending on the exchange area.
Usage Patterns
32.       Since tariffs are the same for business and residential subscribers
(para. 64) the distribution of subscribers is not readily available. However,
estimates derived from a sampling of subscribers in several exchange areas
throughout the country show that, on average, about 70% of connections
are located in business and Government establishments.
33.       Traffic generated in automatic exchange areas by business and
Government connections accounts for almost 75% of the total. This understates
business-related usage, however, since samples indicate that about 40% of all
residential connections are used primarily for business purposes. In fact,



- 9 -
the impact of business-related usage on the system is much greater than these
statistics indicate, as connections used for business purposes generate most
of the traffic during peak calling hours and are the primary determinants of
system capacity costs. The importance of large business and Government users
is also illustrated by the fact that about 46% of the revenue is generated by
10% of the conrnctions.
34.       The pattern of long distance traffic reflects the fact that Nairobi
is the center of the national economy. Over 60% of all traffic generated in
the national network is directed towards Nairobi. Sample surveys have shown
that in small communities over 50% of all calls made are directed towards
Nairobi, while in medium-sized towns almost 70% of calls terminate in the
capital city.
Quality of Telephone Service and Existing Facilities
35.       Lack of timely investment and proper planning in the past has led to
poor service; the breakdown of EAC and EAPTC aggravated this problem by
delaying for at least two years all projects prepared for implementation by
EAPTC. Currently, the high number of telephones (an average of 2.4) on each
connection -- a situation brought about largely by lack of cable equipment to
provide additional connections -- has created considerable local network
congestion, necessitating numerous attempts to complete calls during peak
business hours.
36.       Facilities for subscriber trunk dialing (STD) of long distance calls
are available at nearly all local automatic exchanges; for those connected
through manual exchanges in rural and semi-urban areas, manual long distance
service is provided. However, serious traffic congestion on the long distance
STD service has been caused by (a) a shortage of long distance circuits
resulting in a very high rate of ineffective traffic, and (b) a repeat call
problem when trying to call in to local networks which are tied up due to high
local usage. Unsatisfactory long distance STD service has resulted in the
diversion of long distance traffic to manual switchboards causing an overload
and several hours' delay in setting up calls during busy hours. The overall
result of these network problems has been a large unsatisfied demand and
unsatisfactory service.
37.       Access to international service is available through an earth
satellite station near Nairobi and through microwave, VHF radio links, or
openwire systems to neighboring countries. The quality of service through
the earth satellite portion of the system is good.
Demand for Service
38.       Given the relatively low level of investment in the sector during
the last four years and the large areas of the country which are now without
telephone service, it is difficult to forecast accurately the future demand
for service. In attempting to forecast demand, however, KPTC carried out
block-by-block surveys in many of its existing exchange areas and consulted
town planning and other development authorities about plans for future



- 10 -
development. With these data and the current official tabulation of registered
unsatisfied demand in those areas where some service now exists, demand fore-
casts have been made through 1985. The forecasts are considered conservative
and are acceptable.
39.       After making about 52,000 additional connections during the proposed
project period (1979-83), KPTC would still have an unfilled demand of 19,000
(12,000 of these in Nairobi).
Sector Constraints and Objectives
40.        The major constraints impeding progress in the sector have been
inadequate investment during recent years, institutional deficiencies related
to a lack of continuous planning, and a shortage of trained technical staff.
While the availability of local technical staff has improved, KPTC still
requires some expatriate assistance. The expansion of the sector has been and
still is tied to KPTC's capacity to generate funds from internal sources, or
to borrow externally; KPTC must develop the sector without either direct
financial support from the Government or significant local borrowing.
However, KPTC's revenues are such that over the 1979-83 project period KPTC
plans to finance 84% of the proposed investment program with internally
generated funds. External borrowing would cover the balance of the program.
41.        During the next 10 to 15 years, KPTC plans to extend local services
and high quality long distance circuits using appropriate available techniques,
and to concentrate further attention on providing basic telecommunications
facilities to rural areas which are currently poorly served. KPTC proposes to
move toward these sector objectives under the proposed project by:
(a) significantly developing local networks in Nairobi;
(b) expanding access to telephone service in rural areas
by increasing capacity of small exchanges, and opening
new public call offices in communities (rural, market
and local centers) now without telephone facilities;
(c) improving the quality of service;
(d) upgrading and expanding the long distance network
to handle the additional traffic generated over the
system; and
(e) improving management procedures and KPTC's financial
management capabilities.
42.        The number of connections would increase from about 66,900 in 1978
to about 118,900 in 1983. About 200 public call offices would be installed to
provide service to all rural centers and some market and local centers which



- 11 -
do not now have local telephone access. In addition, the 13 urban centers
which are now without service would be provided with long distance service.
Although many new lines would be installed, and the waiting list decreased,
telephone density would not change significantly (para. 29). The major
improvement would be in the quality of service.
Settlement of EAPTC's Assets and Liabilities
43.       The final division of EAPTC's assets and liabilities among the
former EAC member countries is still pending (para. 19). Each country now
operates the assets located in its territory independently, although the earth
satellite station, which is located in Kenya, is also used by Tanzania and
Uganda. Pending the outcome of the mediation effort, KPTC has been authorized
by the government to operate EAPTC assets located in Kenya; it is not expected
that these assets will be vested in KPTC until the mediation is completed, and
their ultimate disposition and Kenya's liabilities in respect of EAPTC may be
affected by it. This means that the exact value of KPTC's assets and liabil-
ities as shown in its provisional and unaudited statements for 1976-78 will
have to be adjusted following final settlement of EAPTC's assets and liabil-
ities, and financial projections for 1979-83, which were based on these
unaudited statements, will also have to be adjusted.
Previous Bank Lending in the Sector
44.       The Bank's involvement with the telecommunications sector in Kenya
which prior to 1977 was managed by EAPTC, began in February 1967 when the Bank
approved a US$13.0 million loan (Ln. 483-EA) to EAPTC to help finance a
project designed to increase local and long distance facilities throughout
East Africa. The project was satisfactorily completed in early 1974. A
second loan (Ln. 675-EA) for US$10.4 million, approved in 1970, financed
further extension of telecommunications services. This project was satis-
factorily completed in June 1975. The third loan (Ln. 914-EA) was approved in
May 1973 for US$32.5 million to further extend telecommunications services.
Each of these projects included components which benefitted Kenya. Due to
problems in the East African Community, project works on Ln. 914-EA have been
delayed; the Kenya part of the project is now expected to be completed by mid
1980--more then four years behind schedule.
45.       The combined Operations Evaluation Department audit report on the
first two projects (Report No. 893 of October 21, 1975), while on the whole
positive, notes the long delays in project implementation caused by inadequate
planning and project management, problems in procurement and failure to meet
demand. With regard to the proposed project, KPTC is now fully conversant
with procurement procedures; the project has been designed so that it, together
with another project to be initiated in 1983, will by 1985 substantially meet
forecast demand in most areas which then have service; and draft bidding
documents have already been prepared for the necessary goods. The deficiencies
in planning and management are expected to be eliminated during the project
period (paras. 57 and 59).



- 12 -
46.       The three loans to EAPTC have enabled Kenya to:
(a) establish a modern long distance telecommunications network
with the associated long distance exchanges to link together
the principal areas of the country and to initiate the
development of a nationwide high quality subscriber dialing
network covering a number of exchanges in the country;
(b) expand the local telephone services in Nairobi and other
towns; and
(c) create a financial base and establish an institutional
framework for development and future expansion.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       Prior to the de facto breakup of the East African Community, it was
intended that further Bank lending to the telecommunications sector would be
channeled through EAPTC. Accordingly, a proposed fourth telecommunications
project was appraised in October 1975. Because of uncertainties regarding
the Community, processing of this project was not completed. However, the
proposed project represents in part the segment of that earlier proposal
related to Kenya. The project was prepared by KPTC, and appraised in
September 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1979, and the
Government delegation was led by Mr. D. Mwiraria, Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Power and Communications. A Loan and Project Summary is given at
the beginning of this report, and a Staff Apraisal Report entitled "First
Telecommunications Project" (No. 2262-KE of February 16, 1979) is being
distributed separately. A supplementary project data sheet is at Annex III.
Project Objectives
48.       The proposed project would assist KPTC to extend local services and
high quality long distance circuits, and provide basic telecommunications
facilities to rural areas which are currently poorly served (para. 41). While
KPTC has made progress in the technical and planning areas, the financial area
is in need of special attention. Under the EAC, the financial management
function of EAPTC was centrally handled in Uganda. Now that KPTC has assumed
responsibility for its financial management, it is undergoing considerable
strain in organization and staffing. KPTC also needs to improve in-house
capabilities for planning of new facilities, identification of projects for
balanced development, improvement of service quality, and demand forecasting.
Under the proposed project, the Bank would assist KPTC's efforts in these
areas (paras. 57 and 59).
Project Description
49.       The project proposed for Bank financing is a high priority, self-
contained part of KPTC's 1979-83 development program, and provides for a



- 13 -
balanced and integrated development of facilities. Some of the buildings
needed to house project equipment have already been constructed. The project
would comprise mainly the installation of:
(a) about 46,200 additional lines of local automatic exchange
equipment with associated cables and subscribers' plant,
and a total of about 46,000 additional connections;
(b) long distance public call offices to provide services in
about 200 urban, rural and market centers currently without
telephone services;
(c) eight microwave radio systems each with a capacity of
960 channels; three UHF radio systems with a total of
540 channels; about 190 UHF/VHF channels; and multiplex
equipment to provide about 3,100 additional channels;
(d) eleven long distance automatic exchanges with a total
of about 3,600 terminations; and extensions to
existing exchanges by a total of about 1,800 terminations;
and
(e) additional buildings to house equipment.
Estimated Project Cost and Financing Plan
50.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$63.5 million
equivalent. 1(PTC is exempt from customs duties on imported goods and
taxes. Foreign exchange expenditures total about US$49.0 million equivalent,
or 77% of total project cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$20.0 million
would cover about 31% of total project costs, and 41% of foreign exchange
costs. Suppliers' credits of US$6.1 million equivalent from Hitachi (Japan)
would meet about 10% of total project costs, and the balance of US$37.4
million equivalent (US$22.9 million in foreign exchange costs and US$14.5
million in local costs) would be provided by KPTC and the Government. Once
international competitive bidding procedures have been completed, the Govern-
ment may seek additional financing from external sources to help meet the
foreign exchange costs of the project.
51.       Items to be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan would
include local facilities (exchange equipment, cables and subscribers' plant),
long distance facilities (transmission equipment and switching equipment) and
rural services. KPTC proposes to utilize the Japanese suppliers' credit to
procure some local, long distance and additional common equipment for the
existing international exchange.
52.       Proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent by the Government to KPTC
for a period of 15 years, including four years of grace, with interest at 10%
per annum, and execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government



and KPTC, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
loan (Sections 3.01 (b) and 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).  KPTC would
bear the foreign exchange risk.  The interest rate charged by the Government
for similar types of lending varies between 6% and 10% per annum. While
inflation rates in Kenya (defined as increase in the GDP deflator which is the
suitable index in Kenya) have risen from an annual rate of about 13.4% in 1975
to 15.7% in 1976 and 19.6% in 1977, the ir.flation rate is expected to moderate
over the next three years from about 15% in 1978 to about 10% in 1980.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Except for extensions to two exchanges, estimated to cost US$0.4
million, all goods to be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The exception relates to the procurement of automatic exchange
equipment required for expansion of existing facilities originally procured
through international competitive bidding under an earlier EAPTC loan (para.
44). For purposes of standardization this additional equipment would have to
be procured through negotiations with suppliers of existing equipment. Bank
funds would be utilized for procurement of this equipment provided that the
prices are reasonably in line with those for similar equipment obtained
through recent international competitive bidding. Of the goods proposed for
Bank financing, only telephones are manufactured locally; qualified local
manufacturers would be allowed a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the
CIF price, or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Goods such as
cable ducts and some external plant which are manufactured locally would be
financed from KPTC's own resources and procured through local competitive
bidding. The local procurement system permits competition and is satisfactory.
All other imported goods would be procured through international competitive
bidding.
54.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed, over a four-year
period, against (a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures
for subscribers' plant, and (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for all other
goods specified under the loan. Where necessary, disbursements would include
the foreign cost of installation of goods. All disbursements would be fully
documented. The closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1983.
Project Implementation
55.       KPTC's staff would prepare engineering designs for all equipment.
KPTC plans to retain Crown Agents, UK, to revise and finalize bid documents,
conduct bid evaluation and make contract payments. This assistance would be
largely of a legal and administrative nature. These arrangements are satis-
factory. KPTC would lay and commission all local and junction cables, and
would supervise the construction of cable ducts by local contractors. All
installation works would be carried out by KPTC's technical staff, except in
the case of new and sophisticated types of switching equipment where KPTC's
staff would assist the contractor's staff. KPTC's management would be capable
of managing the above work satisfactorily.



- 15 -
The Beneficiary
56.        While KPTC is administered by a seven-member Board of Directors
(para. 27), its day-to-day business is the responsibility of the Managing
Director; he is, in turn, assisted by the Deputy Managing Director, who is an
experienced telecommunications engineer. KPTC's senior engineering staff
has sufficient experience in project management to undertake this project, in
part through experience gained from previous Bank-financed projects. Staff
are well qualified, and generally capable of managing the ongoing as well as
the considerably expanded operations resulting from the installation of addi-
tional assets during the project period.
57.        The Director of Telecommunications Services, who reports to the
Managing Director, has in the past been responsible for all operation and
maintenance and for planning, execution and development. During implementa-
tion of this project, however, his workload would be very heavy. Respon-
sibility for planning and development has therefore been transferred to the
Deputy Managing Director. When the project is nearing completion, considera-
tion would be given to the appointment of another director to be responsible
solely for planning and development, and the Deputy Managing Director would
then concentrate on assisting with the administration of KPTC's assets includ-
ing those created under the project.
58.        KPTC continues to employ some expatriate staff for telecommunications
services, but the number was only 37 in 1977 as a result of the policy of
Kenyanization, and KPTC expects to fully localize its staff by mid 1981. At
the end of 1977, KPTC's telecommunications staff totalled about 4,450 of which
about 4,000 were employed for telephone operations and the rest for tele-
graph and telex operations. KPTC was responsible for about 143,000 telephones
and the employee ratio was therefore about 27 per thousand telephones. This
is considered reasonable, keeping in mind that KPTC operates: (a) long
distance facilities in remote areas using an extensive open-wire system; and
(b) about 59 small capacity manual exchanges which require a minimum level of
staffing depending on the operating hours of each exchange, independent of the
number of connections. During the project period, KPTC expects to recruit
about 700 additional staff for telephone operations, comprising about 100
engineers and 300 line and switching maintenance technicians, operators and
other support personnel. At the end of the project, KPTC would operate about
199,000 telephones on about 119,000 direct lines. Though the staff ratio
would only improve from 27 to 24 per thousand telephones, the quality of
service would improve significantly since the current large number of exten-
sions compared to direct lines would be reduced, thereby relieving congestion.
Pay scales are generally attractive, turnover of staff is reported to be
negligible, and no difficulties in recruiting staff with the required quali-
fication are anticipated. Existing training arrangements are adequate.
KPTC's Finances
59.         Although the exact value of KPTC's assets and liabilities cannot
yet be established (para. 43), some measures to improve KPTC's accounting



- 16 -
procedures should be taken. In addition to the lack of qualified and expe-
rienced financial staff, incomplete financial records taken over from EAPTC
and deficiencies in accounting procedures prevent KPTC's financial department
from functioning properly. Under the proposed project, KPTC would, by
December 31, 1979, retain a suitably qualified and experienced financial
adviser, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for a period of
about two years to review existing accounting procedures and assist in
the implementation of new procedures. Special attention would be paid to the
coordination between the financial department and other departments (tech-
nical, planning, stores, computer etc.), the separation of accounts for postal
and telecommunications operations, and the accounting of fixed assets, work
in progress, stores and long-term debt. Financial statements produced for
the period ending December 31, 1981 would reflect the improved procedures
(Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). To enable the adviser to
carry out his tasks efficiently, he would report directly to KPTC's Managing
Director or Deputy Director.
60.       KENEXTEL was formed in June 1978 with the principal objective of
managing Kenya's external telecommunications. However, by law KPTC has the
right to operate all telecommunications services, and the apparent duplication
of responsibilities for international services and the relationship between
KPTC and KENEXTEL require clarification. The Government would therefore
undertake a study to: (a) clearly define the respective responsibilities
of KPTC and KENEXTEL in providing external telecommunications services, and
the operation and maintenance of equipment used in providing these services;
and (b) work out an agreement between KPTC and KENEXTEL which would govern the
allocation of revenues. The results of this study would be furnished to the
Bank for its review and comment by June 30, 1980 (Section 4.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
61.       KPTC's past operating performance (based on provisional unaudited
accounts for 1976 and 1977) has been satisfactory both in terms of rate
of return and of internal cash generation. Because of current high tele-
communications tariff levels and anticipated increased operating revenues due
to higher traffic volume, no tariff increase is forecast for the project
period. To ensure KPTC's continued financial viability, telecommunications
tariffs would be maintained at levels sufficient to achieve a rate of return
of at least 10% on revalued net fixed telecommunications assets in operation
(Section 4.05(a) of the draft Project Agreement). For purposes of the rate of
return calculation KPTC would revalue the book value as at December 31, 1979
or a later date acceptable to the Bank, of the fixed assets which it owns and
any fixed assets acquired by EAPTC which it operates, on the basis of sound
and consistently maintained methods acceptable to the Bank; thereafter KPTC
would revalue these assets whenever there was reasonable cause to believe
their value had appreciated by more than 10% since the previous revaluation
(Section 4.05 (b)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement). Such revaluations
would, however, be provisional pending the outcome of mediation efforts with
regard to EAPTC (Section 4.02(b)(iv) of the draft Project Agreement). At the
end of 1983, KPTC is projected to have a rate of return of 14% on revalued net
fixed assets in operation. KPTC would also ensure that no long-term debt



- 17 -
would be incurred, without prior approval of the Bank, unless KPTC's consoli-
dated internal cash generation in the preceding 12 months would cover any
future year's maximum debt service on all debt (excluding short-term debt) at
least 1.5 times (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
62.       In addition to telecommunications, KPTC operates the postal service.
Government policy requires that each service be self-supporting, but through
1981 telecommunications revenues would be used to finance both the tele-
communications development program and the relatively small capital investment
program of the postal service. Telecommunications revenues, however, would not
be used for purposes other than telecommunications development and operations,
unless such revenues are in excess of telecommunications requirements (Section
4.03 of the draft Project Agreement). From 1982 on, the extension of faci-
lities provided under the project would ensure a steady flow of revenues, and
significant surplus telecommunications funds are anticipated; surplus funds
would be transferred to the Government.
Tariffs
63.       Present telecommunications tariffs, which have been in force since
February 1975, are relatively high. At that time unit call charges for
ordinary telephones were raised by 62.5%, rental charges were doubled, and
connection fees increased by 50%. Local call charges on coin boxes remained
unchanged partly to ensure that those who could not afford a subscriber
telephone had relatively cheap access to service. Over the project period,
several issues relating to tariff structures need to be examined. The first
is the high incidence of disconnections and reconnections compared with most
telecommunication administrations. Charges for connection and reconnection
are low, and as KPTC's technical capacity for making connections is limited,
ways should be sought to reduce disconnection for non-payment of bills and
subsequent reconnection. Secondly, fixed rental charges for business and
private subscribers are the same; classification of subscribers into business,
private and Government categories would permit more meaningful traffic studies
and could provide the basis for an eventual change in the tariff structure.
Thirdly, as STD service spreads and transmission costs fall, a reduction in
the price of STD long distance calls relative to manual calls should be
considered.
64.       To address the need for an improved telecommunications tariff
structure, KPTC would undertake a detailed review of the tariff structure to
be completed by December 31, 1979 under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank. Results and recommendations of this study would be reviewed with
the Bank (Section 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
65.       According to the Act governing KPTC, the external audit of KPTC
should be carried out by the Controller and Auditor General; the audit report
together with an operations report should be submitted to the Minister of
Power and Communications, who then would present it to Parliament within nine



- 18 -
months of the end of each financial year. However, pending the final division
of the assets and liabilities of EAPTC (para. 43), KPTC has not been able to
prepare any final financial statements for audit. Accordingly, until the
division of EAPTC's assets and liabilities has been finalized, KPTC would
submit to the Bank provisional financial statements, with qualified auditor's
opinions, if possible, within six months of the end of each fiscal year;
thereafter, KPTC would submit audited financial statements within six months
of the end of the fiscal year.
Economic Justification and Risk
66.       This project is part of the least cost solution for providing a
substantial increase in telecommunications services in Kenya. The telecom-
munications development program for the period 1979-83, of which the project
is an integral part, will facilitate the distribution of telecommunications
services to regions outside Nairobi, increase access in the more isolated
rural areas, expand system capacity, and upgrade the quality of local, long
distance and international telephone services. Telecommunications are used in
many agricultural, industrial, service, and trade activities throughout Kenya
and a large proportion of national traffic is directed to Nairobi which is the
country's administrative and commercial center. The program will thus help
foster economic integration and increased management efficiency in Kenya by
(a) reducing the number of subscribers waiting for telephones; (b) facilitating
improvements in transport and delivery services in both urban and rural areas;
(c) reducing losses of production and marketing efficiency resulting from lack
of communications; (d) reducing wastage of resources consumed by higher cost
means of communication such as transport; and (e) reducing wastage of time
caused by having to make numerous repeat attempts during peak business hours.
67.       The internal financial rate of return on the program is estimated at
35%, but this significantly understates the real benefits to be derived from
the investment program. The economic rate of return is about 50%. This is
based on constant tariffs in real terms to estimate part of future consumer
surplus and shadow pricing foreign exchange. With regard to the equity
aspects of the program, public call offices will be introduced into approxi-
mately 200 small communities (rural, market and local centers) now without
access to telephone services, and small exchanges will be introduced or
expanded in approximately 24 other communities. The increased access in rural
areas and in poorer communities in the provinces, together with a financial
cross-subsidy from urban subscribers to those rural communities where services
prove to be unprofitable, should ensure a more equitable distribution of the
benefits of the telephone service, especially between urban and rural areas
in Kenya. Equally important will be the project's contribution towards
further institutional improvements which will enable KPTC to make more effi-
cient use of available resources. No significant adverse environmental or
health effects are expected from the project.
68.       The project offers limited risks.  In telecommunications projects,
which comprise a relatively large number of independent activities, any delay
in the completion of a few works does not generally prevent the use of other



International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR                                                             For consideration on
EXECUTIVE ~~~~~~~f7March 13, 1979
j DIRECTORS'                       a -                           i    _
MEETING
IDA/R79-14/1
FROM:  Vice President and Secretary                            March 7, 1979
NIGER: Livestock Project
Corrigendum
Please correct the figure "US$10.5 million" to read "US$12 million",
on page (i) of the "Credit and Project Smmary Section" of the President's
Report and Recommendation on a proposed credit to Niger for a livestock
project, distributed on March 1, 1979 (IDA/R79-14).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice President, Finance
Vice President, Operations
President's Council
Vice Presidents, I'FC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This document has a restricted distributiort And rmty he used hy r,piPlents only in the pert'ormance
of their o'ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be dp<closad without World Bank authorization.






Intern<Ational DeOvelopment Association F                      L
FOR OFIC lIL LISE ONLY
FOR                                                                       For consideration on
EXECUTIVE                                                                 March 13, 1979
DIRECTORS'
MEETING
IDA/R79-13/1
FROM:       Vice President and Secretary                           March 7, 1979
LESOTHO: Th:Lrd Highway Project
Addenda
Two pages (Economic Indicators) were inadvertently omitted from Annex I
of the President's Report and Recommendation on a proposed credit to Lesotho
for a third highway project distributed on March 1, 1979 (IDA/R79-13). The
attached pages (18a and 18b) should be included in Annex 1 of that Report.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice President, Finance
Vice President, Operations
President's Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This document hals at restricted distribution .nd may be used hr r cpierns only im the pertorm n1C
of thcir oflicial duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed v ithout World Bank authoriiatiort.






ANNEX I
- 18a -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977/78                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (S. constant prices)
US$ M)ln.      j                         1973/74-1977/78          1977/789/
GNP at Market Prices            297.6      100.0                              8.7                 4.9
Gross Domestic Investment        47.6       16.0                              9.2                 5.3
Gross National Saving            28.0        9.4
Current Account Balance        -19.6       - 6.6
Exports of Goods, NFS            38.0       12.8                              1.3                -7.7
Imports of Goods, NFS          216.4        72.7                             18.0                 7.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVIT! IN 1976/77
Value Added                   Labor Force-l/                 V. A. Per Workr
US$ Mln.      %n.
Agriculture                    50.1       41.0                  343       91                    146         45
Industry                       12.4       10.2                    7        2                   1771        545
Services                       59.7       48.8                   26        7                   2296        706
Unallocated                   ____6_To-O._
Total/Average          1Z2.2     100;0                  376       100.0                 -
325)      100.05
GOVERNNEiT FINANCE
General Govermaent                             CentraL Govern ent
MNln.)       S Of GDP                    btands Nln.)        % of GDP
_7           197 l96 -7                       trT7 8 -         7 T7 -74775.77/78
Current Receipts                                                                    53.7          33.5        44.8
Current Expenditure                                                                 45.1          28.2        37.7
Current Surplus                                                                      -T        * -4            7.2
Capital Expenditures                                                                25.7          16.0        21.5
External Assistance (net)                                                            4.7           2.9          3.9
MONE!. CREDIT and PRICES                  1972          1973        1974         1975        l2L          1977
(Million rands outstandingend period)
Money and Quasi Money                       ..           ..           ..
Bank credit to Public Sector              2.6           3.2         2.6         3.2         6.4          12.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector             4.8           5.7         8.6         8.4        11.6          13.6
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           ..           ..          ..
General Price Index ( 1972- 100) 2/    100.0          112. 8      122.4        140.8      155.6         183.2
Anmnal percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         ..         12.8         8.5         15.0       10.5          17.7
Bank credit to Public Sector            100.0          23.0       -18.7         23.0      100.0        100.0
Bank credit to Private Sector            11.6          18.8        50.9        -3.2        38.1         17.2
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1 Provisional.
2/ Covers urban households with annual income of less than R500.
not available
not applicable
March 6, 1978
EACPI



- 18b  -                                       ANNEX  I
TRADE PAIMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1975     1976      1977                                                 US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          29.1      37.3     38.0              Cattle                                 0.3     2.1
Imports of Goods, NFS         154.5    188.8    216.4               Wool                                   2.2    15.4
Resource Gap (deficit   -)  12          151     -178.5              Mohair                                 2.5    17.5
_1*5.  1 6 *             Food                                  2.4    16.8
Interest Payments (net)         ..        ..       .                Other                                  6.9    48.3
Workers' Remittances           86.3      98.4    113.4
Other Factor Payments (net)
Net Transfers                  25.4      26.2     45.5                All other comodities
Balance on Current Account    137    -26.5    -19.6                         Total                         14.3   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       *-        *.        *-              EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                                                                                                US *.  ..  US $ M1n
Amortization
Subtotal                     ..        ..        .                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               15.4
Capital Grants                  *.        ..        ..                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                       ..        ..                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i
Increase in Reserves (+)        ..        ..       ..               DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976 -
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves   (end year)         .        .         .                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               1.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  -
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                       9.7      13.4
of which:  Petroleum
Exports
of which:  Petroleum         .         .        .         IBRD/IDA LENDING. December 1978 (Million US$):
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1974     1975      1976     1977      1978(July) Outstanding & Disbursed                 *          17.0
US$1.00 - R    0.679    0.732    0.870    0.870    0.870           Undisbursed                                       18.2
Rl.OO - US$  1.472    1.367    1.150    1.150    1.150           Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                     35.2
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
March 6, 1978
EACPI



- 19 -
newly created assets. Furthermore, when delays occur, costs and benefits are
often delayed in roughly the same degree, so that the impact on the rate of
return would not be expected to be significant.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Kenya Posts and Telecom-
munications Corporation, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Features of the draft Loan Agreement and Project Agreement of
special interest are given in Section III of Annex III to this report.
Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Bank between the
Government and the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
March 6, 1979



- 20-                                           ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SPEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVEKAGES
KENYA
LAND ARFA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAIL           5 82 .6                                                SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGhiER
AGRICULTURAL      99.2                                M0ST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       160.0    270.0            223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAHS OF COAL EqUIVALENT)     143.0       135.0     174.0            86.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        8.3         11.2      14.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.3         9.9      13.0            13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0        19.0      25.0            18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     84.0       113.0     145.0            53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.0 1,&   48.4       46.5            44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                        49.2 Lf.,   48.0       50.9            52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.8 Lfl      3.6       2.6             2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         3.1       3.5             2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              5.8         6.5       6.1             5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     48.5        49.0      48.7            46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.8        17.0      16.0            20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.4       3.3             3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        30.9      46.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          2.2        ..             2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            101.0       100.0      83.2            94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREXENTS)                  103.0        98.0      91.0            90.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          75.0        71.0      59.6            55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       32.0        29.0      22.8            17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..         1.9        ..              ..         ..         7.5
BEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.5        49.1      50.0            43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          159.0          ..     129.0           138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        15.0      17.0            22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..       100.0     100.0            66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                               ..         2.0       4.0            10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        50.0      55.0            23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..        85.0      98.0            70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                               ..        45.0      48.0            14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10840.0/f.h  7810.0Lh  5800.0 /ih    21757.5   13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NLRSING PERSON     2290./f.h  i47,f.G    13-C.0 jh    3473.8    6983.3          2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            830.01f     770.0     760.0 /i        645.4    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..          1292.6     1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..            19.2       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.7       ..              4.9        5.2
URBAN                               ..         4.7       ..              5.0        4.8
RURAL                               *-         4.7                       4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOH
TOTAL                               ..         ..         ..
URBAN                              2.5k         ..       ..              ..         1.8         2.3
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..              ..        25.9        28.3
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         8.7        10.3



- 21-                                          ANNEX I
TAILE 3A
ENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS IATA SHEET
REERtENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
_   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NElT a ICHER
IMST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOHE         INCOME
1960 jb     1970 Lb ESTIATE Lb       IlEGION Lc   GROUP Ld    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENt RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0        64.0      109.0             52.1       62.9         75.8
FEMALE               30.0         53.0     101.0             37.6       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0  j      9.0       13.0             8.0        14.4         17.7
FEKALE                2.0          5.0      10.0              5.0         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 12.0 Li       2.0        2.0              7.2        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            42.0        34.0       33.0            43.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                          15.0        21.0       24.0            22.8        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..         30.0      40.0             20.3       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSIAND
POPULATION                          8.0         9.0       10.0              3.9        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.0        48.0       40.0            40.1        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           *-         1.5        3.0             2.2         2.8        14.1
NE1WSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TBOUSAND POPULATION                  13.0        14.0        8.0              3.9        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0            ..        ..              1.2        1.4          1.6
EKPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3300.0      5100.0 tk 6100.0
FD(ALE (PERCENT)                   34.8        33.6 /k   33.3             32.6        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              85.8        90.0 /I   84.0 b            73.3       60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.1         7.1         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.2        40.6       39.2            42.0        39.8        37.8
Y.ALE                                54.5         53.8      52.3             54.8       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               28.2        27.4       26.1            27.3        19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3          1.1       1.1              1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        20.2         ..            25.7        20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         52.6j/       ..            55.1        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         3.9 jn      *-             5.8         5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        11.7         ..            14.5        16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      122.0           108.8        88.5       155.9
1RUAL                                ..           ..      93.0            74.1        71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      144.0           124.4       100.8       143.7
RURAL                                ..          *.       78.0            59.6       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       25.0            26.8       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..          ..       80.0            47.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
INOTES
La    The adjusted %roup aerages for aach indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted. data for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent FstiMate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lov Income ($280 or les  per capita. 1976);   Le  Lower Middle Incom
($2S1-550 per capita  1976); '     1962;   /  BRsed on couplete enumeration of non-African population,
and on a 10 percent sample of rural Atrican population age 0-14. 15-59 & 60 years and over respectively;
/h  Registered, not all practicing in the country;  Li  1972;  /1  Including teacher training at the
third level;  /k  Labor force age 15-50 years;  /1  Labor force age 15-50;   /   staff estimato;
/n urban only.
S*ptember. 1978



- 22 -                                                             ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL TNDICATORS
v11.:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values af the  -ndicator Jnd th.  -ust
popolated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not lo':orm.  Due to lack of data.
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, incoe ,stribution and poverty a I
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Populatiorn io-a-
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland water-,                      urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital be.>
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                           at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);             sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                   from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                 and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of tw  end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                         the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                   hold vary.
tion; different definitipns of urban areas may affect comparability                 Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                              ber of persons per room in all. urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. k.s  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                 Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                 Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                     at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                    different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithaetic averages ending in 1960 and                  cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                   above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                 usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                     excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                      or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Fmily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                       sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group,                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                 Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                   seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from               vehicles,
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less             broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock,  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,            receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was  -n
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution,  Re-                effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                  tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above,  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a mini-um allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                   units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food            EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                  Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including ar-eu
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-               forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, snd
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                             Female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                 These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting ag-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                  structure of the population, and long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house,  In rural areas reasonable access would                 percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                   of households,
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and               Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita)   hrbae  ass r,s.        -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                    Absolute poverty income level is that income level belo.w .1hIh a main.
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food reqiJirerents is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                     affordable,
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                 Estinated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita)_ -urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations,                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level less thar  one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,                    Estimated population below poverty income level (perceor.j-urbanand  gcsI
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                          Percent of population (urban and rural) who are eit'-  "ao rsluto l,I' or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Econom-c and Social Dara Division
Economic Analysis and Pr, ;' - ons Depa'to"'t



- 23 -
ANNEX I
81876
E eo lct  D v-l.  n, t Drt.  Sheot
6ot,.1                   Pt,1.ltIncv                              oltol"ted                                 A-vCCK. A.-.l b.te of C o           Ml 597.
1972   I_12           1974       1975       1976       1_         1978       1979       1910                              1967.70 1972-76 o97-e5 19-90  SVtro
6                                                                                             o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f G07
A.  NoeIoAI Aoeo.o--
(MIElIloVi U5s *: 1972  slI..$)
1.  CDP                              2022.6    2155.8    2258.3    227Z.7    2390.2    2510.5    2662.5    2824.9    2997.1    4052.7                5543.7        6.7      4.3      6.1      6.5    100.0
2.  G.i. frt. TT                       ..        -94.6      -73.6    -10.0       -72.2      102.8       17.1       -8.1      -33.9    -112.6        -163.2             .        .            .       -3.0
3   GDY                              2022 6    2061.2    2184.6    2167.7    2318.0    2613.2    2679.9    2816.8    2963.2    3940.2                 5380.8       6.9      3.5      6.1     6.4      97.0
4.  Icport                            605.2      587.1      665.8       508.4      520.5      668.6      758.0      781.2      826.3    1315.8        1216.3       8.3    -3.7       7.7      5.3      21.8
S.  VEpoet . VolV                     560.3      655.6      621.9      565.9       599.5      639.0      679.6      723.5      768,0    1231.0       1401.1        6.0      1.7      6.2     6.3       25.1
6.   E poei   - TI .470.1.d           560.3      560.6      548.2      460.9       527.2      741.7      696.6      715.4      734.4      919.0      1538.2        6.7    -6.5       6.4      6.1      22 1
7.  8..o.r.-     s.p - tT *dlJsetd     66.9       26.3      117.6        47.5      -6.7      -73.1        61.3  .   63.5        91.8       96.9         78.1                 *          *               0.3
8.  Tetol C_n.apl.e                  1620.8    16SI.2    1736.5    1832.3    1893.9    1919.4    2123.8    2240.0    2384.7              3121.7       4234.4       6.7      4.0      5.7      6.3      79.2
9.  Inveat. t                         446.8      406.1      409.8      400.4       417.3      620.8      617.4      642.3      670.9      915.3       1224.4      10.2    -1.7       9.1      6.0      17.5
10. Notl mfei   1 S2.0               379.2      292.9      379.8      267.6       353.9      632.0      501.5      516.6      514.9      721.0       1006.3      12.3    -1.7       8.2      6.9      14.8
I  Dkeestic S0.14.                   401.8      380.0      448.1       335.4      424.1      694.1      556.1      576.8      579.0      818.4       1146.3       7.8      1.4      7.6      7.0      17.7
12. CDP .: terrOnt ' s;              2022.6    2362.6    2850.7    3155.5    3410.1    4028.2    4699.4    5359.7    6084.2   11539.7    27139.3                  16.8    13.9    14.5    13.9
8. SOcLor OWteSu
(Short oaf D? et 1972 titeft)
1.  I'du"try                           21.3       21.9        21.8       21.9       22.8       23.5       23.8       24.0       24.2        25.3        27.2       7.8      5.5      7.0      8.0
2   AgSlo-lt-re                         32.7       31.4       30.7       30.4       29.6       29.3       29.0       28.9       28.7        28.0        27.2       5.4      1.3      5.6      5.8
3.  Se.vlo                              46.0       46.6       47.6       47.7       47.6       47.2       47.2       47.2        47.1       46.6        45.8       7.5      4.7      6.0      6.0
C. ri,...
1.  Expoet Prle. Id4.                 100.0      117.5      149.4      171.2       187.7      242.9      226.7      236.8      244.4      322.6        450.1        *      17.1      4.9      6.9
2.  Iporrt Prle  ltd.,                1DO.O       120.6      173.0      203.1      196.1      209.3      221.1      239.5      255.6      362.1        509.3         *     19.4      7.4      7.1
3.  T r   oF rTed.                    I80.0       97.4        86.4      84.3        95.7      116.1      102.5       98.9       95.6       89.1         80.4
4.  CDP DOf1^to_  000)                100.0      109.6       126.2      138.8      142.7      160.5      176.5      189.7      203.0      284.7        399.4         .      9.3      7.1      7.0
S. A-.t.ge Be,h..s. Set.
WOl7W6)                             2.30       2.85       2.80       2.70       2.40
D.  S.eI.t.d Indito.t.              1965-70   1972-78   19`6 -5    1985-90
1.  ICOR                                3.0         4.5        3.6        3.5
2.  7.port  lei ti ty                    1.0      _0.0        1.I         0.8
3.  Al Me:6  8-t..i  S-.vtg$ Set.   19.0           16.5      20.9        21.1
4.  AveFa - .11i.6.I S-ivjtg  R8t.   18.6          14.1      19 .0       18.5
5.   -gr8inl N58 ion l S.otg. 8.t  22.0           -i.3        22.9       20.3
6.  0tee,/rG0DP                        29.8       26 2        26.5       24.5
Itve  _nt,GOY                      20.3       19.4       22.7       23.1
3.  R1.006..  C.p'-e3Y                  0.7         2.3        2.4        2.0
Al. An"luO
CT. Rate
.:.  bc ovcer.                        7970       1975       1976    1970-76
1.  Lob-, Fe,-  T-6.1                         6,400.000
2   6.. 80 ploy_.t                  644 500    819,100   857,200    4.91
F.  7Pbli  FIt.,,                                                                                                          PTov
(If Ml.Ilot)                      1969/70    1970871    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77
1.   0R eurrnt R.o.t.c.                 97.9        124.0       141.6       149.0       190.1        226.1       269.3       311.8
2.  Rt ..re -=    Epttd tuot            89.4        110.4       124.2       139.6       163.7       207.2    - 245.4         295.0
3.  Reore.t Settle.                     +g.4       +13.5        +12.9        +9.4       .26.3       +18.9       +23.9        +16.8
4. Dv.Iope.nt P-o0ctt
Ernitg. 6 Oth0-
tIl .l.II...e.  6.o.pt.              0.4         0.4          0.4         0.6         0.6         0.4          _
1. 70r6.24 S1ets                          1.4         0.8         1.8         0.5         3.5.        6.6          7.6        19.1
6. surt71u. tA- II. E.fo
tioheing DovCelopoont
Erpoodito,-o                        10.3        14.7        15.1         10.1        30,4        25.4        31.5         35.9
7.  D0-.lop-   le-dit....               32.1         46.5        51.9        61.8        66.4         94.2       127.7       146.9
6.  Ostr-l1  DefIlit                   -2L7 zLZ                 -36.8       ZL2         -36.       j_6.8        -96.2       -113-2
9.  FPt  nclt4 of th. 80flttt:
I ter     Lo t                    10.8        10.9        12.5        24.7         14.4        22.0        43.1        41.1
L0ng-t-et. 806.0,i7R            13.6         8.1        15.6        21.3         18.9        15.5        52.8        25.0
so-t-te- 3-e,e,7-.;              5.j        1 .9         51          6.8         -2.9        12.7        32.7        20.6
.-Frflt.                         0.05        0.03        0.02        0.02           _         0.04    _      _
Ottg.. Se Ceeh 301-c-.
(Wnereo..  -I                    -7.8         -2.4        -8.5        +1.5        -5.6       -.8.1        +32.2       -26.3
EAN  CPI.A
Fobrury 13. 1975



tl sI_ltf oj-|   9     _         w         sb - <v a i-> 4  O
n n n 9 X D > t Q 5 2 ca g vl 9 0  _ ;! a r 9 gt u c t jr IR Z -z D IS 2 R <  ^-z r X g u
O b X g w. n n 11 b r   o s v t 00 q a " q > C n B S g < n X O g { O
n n o - C w C H D In q D n n n e D r = g Sn g gl n g | lre  = t - 0 n iz 4/ 4 2  _
* * g b n tD w. n _ w * p >. > n = O rb . 2 n n z Dn | n 5; n n n n J D 99  * eC ,5 D
n n e s n. n D n n ^ * b n em o o _ n_ 19 | _ z C n  z a x n n
w Q * < DG m  D                          n   n * n            Dn jDn   9   'Z > V  9
n _ b xT > .r  n    *                      * *                     t  n o 5      D
n ew n X _ t ^.
z n 5 0 n   xG t -    w t | -4  X  0o w0 W 90    w hG b r w U o @ > c , t|w Ow > ,c. ow t S w O    ff-
_ j + O b   b S @   O   W w   _ o o > 0    M _ o O O s o w r- s tn O   O > _ _ o o o
. H. X
n   q n   O * >    w t | r W P ffi  * O-0    w w > O ,, ,, ,,, W ,v, > - _E   |  8 | Q i < 00  . |-
n   n_   c9*      1q  c W 0_  0_1 >    tG>_O_bo  900>  r-_ M O wwWocO              @   e
* n _   W f | g * { M w W o o wo C * _ w 0 w O t t ' zD|t w b  O _ O w _ l- O

ve *   eua S        *   c " w t W         _ cl       W t|- - o  * |   r O    |- _ n
" r   o w o    o O  > 1Ru g cr    w w    w s. so o o o o  o _ _ > w c * >  o wo *  w    b | c         I
_ o                                                                              U) X                    >
. t   ooS      _@t W>s  wo*WS      oowo o @ * wo t*ioP   ss 8 tt    Io   i                         I
r. ,n         > X         '     07 v  ;   io  s io  wl; w w  > > o wo t w  >
e                                     .@.                        _        .        .
* t w @ O O Z W  > 0 0t W 0 ,,, W W  0 sO W I- O
;o o o r Lo o  > _ o ol > o o o o o _ w $'
8 r >> j > olbo O t00h0 1
1W0&0- o    lFo  a  >'*>m    I-D
oqb o g> t b b N @ *   lo
0OOO >WB WW O O o ,,a O r-
NO 8 _ O e. O O W ,_ w A t A > o o o o |
a "0 O OwW o X 'O -- 9
EE
aQ, ",W p t">O gShw * t9".Oo lo
, vo mO o t * o o a o- o ro; o 4 +



- 25 -
KENYA                                   ANNNEX I
Debt and Creditworthiness-/
Actual
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976      1977
A.  Medium and Long-Term. Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding 1DOD:  End of Period)          441.6     514.5      602.8     656.8      807.9    1029.8
2.  Including UndisburseV-                                674.3     787.9      958.7    1235.0    1401.0    1537.4
3.  Public Debt Service -                                  36.3       39.9      42.1       43.0      57.7      82.4
3.1 Interest                                               20.2      21.7       24.5       25.9      30.3      41.1
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                               ..         ..        ..         ..
2/
B. Debt Burden-
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                      6.5        5.7       4.2       4.1        5.0       5.3
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                        1.8        1.9       1.9        1.9       2.4       2.0
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                  8.9       8.3        7.2        6.4       8.3
C   TermsLV
1.  Interest on Total DOD/TotalDOD                          4.6       4.2        4.1       3.9        3.8       4.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                            8.2        7.8       7.0       6.5        7.1       8.0
i/
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                12.5      11.5        7.9       9.7       17.4      18.9
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                       10.0       9.1        6.4       8.2       15.0      16.0
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                       79.7      79.0       82.0      84.8       86.3      84.4
E.       1~~/
E. Exposure-
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements           34.6      38.5      23.8       53.5      38.8       20.0
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  42.0         55.6       35.4      59.5      45.6       27.6 ,
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                     16.2      19.9       20.6      27.7      31.5       29.4
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD              2/               26.1      32.2       32.9      40.1      43.2       40.5
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service-                  14.6      19.3      21.6       27.2      38.2       29.4
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service/           15.4      20.6      22.8       28.6      39,6       30.6
Outstanding Dec. 31, 1976
Amount         Percent
31                             (US$ Million) 
F.  External Debt (Disbursed only/                                 (
1.  IBRD                                                               169.5            25.6
2.  Bank Group                                                         264.1            39.9
3.  Other Multilateral                                                  10.3             1.6
4   Governments                                                        299.8            45.3
of which centrally planned economies                               0.2             -
5.  Suppliers                                                           35.9             5.4
6.  Financial Institutions                                              21.5             3.2
7.  Bonds                                                               18.4             2.8
8.  Public debt, n.e.i.                                                 11.8             1.8
9   Total Public M & yy Debt                                           661.7          100.0
10. Other M & LT Debt-                                                 146.2           22.1
11. Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                             1237.1          187.0
12. Total M & LT Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                             1401.0          211.7
1/ Includes a notional 50% share of loans to the EAC.
2/ Includes a notional 507. share of debt service on loans to the EAC.
3/ Excludes EAC.                                                                     EACPIA
February 7, 1978



- 26 -                         ANNEX II
THIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPEPATIONIS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of January 31, 1979
US$ Million
AT unt (Less CTcellations)
brej___#   Year  Borrower   Purpose                             Bank-   TW    IDA-   Undisbursed
Seven (7) Loans and twelve (12) Credits fully disbursed         96.0           74.1
224       1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                                  12.6        1.8
826       1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                    29.0                       0.6
932       1973  Kenya       Highways                           29.0                       5.6
946       1973  IDB         DFC I                               5.0                       0.6
468       1974  Kenya       Population                                        12.0        1.5
477       1974  Kenya       Livestock                                         21.5       17.9
993       1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                      10.4                       4.2
1093       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                   7.5                       7.5
537       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                                  7.5        4.7
1105       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                    8.0                       8.0
543       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                                   8.0        1.2
565       1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry                            10.0        3.3
1132       1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestiy             10.0                       6.2 2/
1133       1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline          20.0                       0.3
1147       1975  TRDC        Hydroelectric Development          59.5                       8.6
1146       1975  IDB         DFC II                             10.0                       2.9
1167       1975  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.0                         20.7
1184       1975  Kenya       Education III                      10.0                       9.0
650       1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                      10.0        8.9
1303-1     1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                10.0             10.0
130L-T     1'976  Kenya      Wildlife and Tourism                        17.0             14.9
651       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                                 4.0        4.0
1305       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.0                       4.0
1389       1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.0                      22.5
692       1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                           20.0       15.6
1390O-T    i977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                      5.0              5.0
1438       1977  IDB         DFC III                            20.0                      17.8
722       1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement                         6.0        5.4
1449       1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.0                      34.0
750       1977  Kenya       Small Scale Industry                              10.0       10.0
1520       1978  NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply        30.0                      30.0
71       1978  Kenya       Second Urban                                      25.0       25.0
1550       1978  Kenya       Second Urban                       25.0                      25.0
797       1978  Kenya       Education IV                                      23.0       23.0
S-12 3/    1978  KPC         Olkaria Engineering Loan            9.0                       9.0
1636 3/    1978  Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation               72.0                      72.0
1637 3/    1978  Kenya       Rural Water Supply                 20.0                      20.0
858 3/    1978  Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development   _                13.0       13.0
Total                            568.4    32.0 256.7       473.7
of which has been repaid         18.4       -    0.9
Total now outstanding            550.0    32.0 255.8
Amount sold                 11.8
of which has been
repaid                      8.9   2.9
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/          547.1    32.0 255.8
TOTAL undisbursed                          308.5    29.9 135.3       473.7
1/   Prio: to exchange adjustment.
2/   Includes US$3.9 million undisbursed grant participation.
3!  Not vret effective.



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of January 31, 1979
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                   Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million
Five loans fully disbursed                          93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                 35.0           0.8
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                 42.4           3.1
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Rarbours                 26.5           1.1
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications        32.5           5.6
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0             8.1
Total                                          244.8          18.7
of which has been repaid                     48.8
Total now outstanding                          196.0
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                      196.0
Total undisbursed                               18.7          18.7
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution I/
(As of January 31, 1979)
There are currently 30 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. The response to the fertilizer credit scheme
financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC - the cofinancing
partner) for 1978/79 is slightly better than for the 1976/77 season. Yields
continue to rise, and from 1979/80 onward the appraisal projections are likely
to be exceeded. The project factory building program is behind schedule and,
due to cost escalations, funds will only enable 12 factories to be built
instead of 17 as originally envisaged. The OPEC Special Fund has recently
agreed to finance 3 factories under the project, an.a other sources of funds
to finance construction of the remaining 2 factories under the project are
being explored. CDC has advanced financing for their Fourth Plan, and by
December 1979 a total of 15 factories (12 under the project and 3 others) will
be operative. The standard of Kenya Tea Development Authority's management
continues to be high,. and although the Marketing Department problems are not
yet resolved they are under control. Disbursements are behind schedule due
to the delayed factory building program.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and there have been problems
in organizatfin, cost overruns and pricing. An in-depth review of the project
was undertaken in March 1976; the review mission's report was presented to the
Government in September 1976 and a series of discussions have been held since
that date.  Thea prcjct had been adversely affected by the Government's
failure to raise certain cattle and beef prices to adequate incentive levels
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
but a new and satisfactory livestock price structure was adopted in early
1978, removing the most serious constraint to ranch development and viability.
Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists in the range
development comp.r,ents, and Government services in ranch water development
planning and in the company ranch sector have been improved. However, prob-
lems continue in that (a) the poor financial situation of many Phase I and
Phase II company ranches continues (although currently under review and
replanning); (b) an effective extension service in the Masai group ranch
areas, which is essential 'f the project's objectives are to be achieved, is
still not developed adequately; (c) currently high prices have to be paid for
immature steers (which are necessary to enable generation of cash flow) due
to a temporary situation of high demand coupled with an unwillingness by
pastoralists to sell due to good pasture conditions. The project will con-
tinue to be kept under close review.
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
USS7.5 million Credit and US$7.5 million Loan of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have come under
rehabilitation in the past year for a variety of reasons: legal, social,
political, and financial. This slow progress of farm rehabilitation and
the recommendations of the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the
Project) have prompted Government to make a major review of its policies
towards the Large Farm Sector. Although delays in reaching consensus on a
new policy have been encountered, Government expects to take a position on
the large farm sector in the near future. Upon clarification of Government
policy, the Bank and the Government expect to undertake a joint review to
see whether the original project objectives can still be attained.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: US$10.0 million Credit and US$10.0 million Loan of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The planting program is progressing fairly satisfactorily, but the
cumulative total to date is 20% below target, for a variety of reasons includ-
ing unfavorable weather. The building and road construction programs are both
considerably behind schedule. However, the backlogs may be made good during
the last two years of the project. Progress has been very slow in implement-
ing most of the covenants of the Credit Agreement, particularly regarding the
program to improve efficiency and production of the sawmilling sector, the
national land use study,       the gazetting of nature reserves and new forest
reserves, and the study of stumpage rates for sawlogs. Government is now pro-
viding adequate budgetary allocations, and procurement is proceeding normally.
The general implementation situation shows signs of improvement.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31. 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the project objective of improving the produc-
tivity and incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. The rates of
credit recovery and loanee reparticipation thus far have been disappointing.
However, in recognition of the financial consequences of unrecovered credit,
cooperative unions have been reducing the numbers of loanees they are prepared
to finance. Consequently the balance between numbers of loanees and infra-
structural support--staff, storage and transport--at union level has been
improving. Active efforts are now being made to expand and implement the
infrastructure components, including improvement of input supplies and market-
ing systems. Some adjustment to the administrative framework is required,
and discussions on this subject are ongoing.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural implementation proceeds satisfactorily with only minor
problems. Cane yields are higher than anticipated, probably because of excel-
lent and well-distributed rainfall during 1977 and the first half of 1978.
Building works were delayed due to shortage of cement, but the position has
improved and the factory should be completed on schedule in October 1979.
Recruitment of staff is underway, and training and research programs are under
preparation. A recent Government decision not to increase sugar prices in
1978 was reviewed with the Bank, and agreement was reached that the current
price levels were adequate to provide the necessary incentives to growers.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No. 1390T-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$20.0 million Credit and US$5.0 million Loan of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Since mid-1978, the project's disbursements have been delayed due
to problems of (i) backlog at Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) in up-
dating loan reimbursement requests, and (ii) lack of consolidated information
on AFC's lending trends toward different categories of farmers. AFC is taking
steps to resolve these matters. The current arrears situation - while still
uncertain because of temporary statistical and accounting problems in AFC -
appears to be deteriorating. To bolster this situation, AFC is recruiting
additional qualified loan officers.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Prolect: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been delayed, predominantly jecause of
late appointment of consultants. As a result of these delays, some components
are as much as a year behind schedule. Revised cost estimates indicate that
the project is likely to encounter serious cost overruns.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This loan is not yet effective.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation is about two years behind the appraisal
schedule, basically due to delays by the various Committees in approving
sketch designs for the 17 primary teacher colleges. The Government's
reluctance to finance technical assistance specialists from the loan
proceeds may further delay project implementation. The sessional paper
on the report of the National Committee on Educational Objectives and
Priorities which was tabled in Parliament in May 1978 is expected to
be discussed in a full Cabinet meeting in the near future. No major changes
in the document are expected. The delays in approving sketch designs are
expected to be overcome and the dialogue with the Government regarding the
hiring of required specialists is continuing.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education: US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project Unit Staff are benefitting from experience gained in
implementing the Third Education Project. Consultant architects have been
appointed for the Faculty of Agriculture and the thirteen Nomadic Primary
Schools, and architects' briefs for the schools are in an early stage of
preparation. Planning for the Primary School Curriculum Review and imple-
mentation of technical assistance for the Faculty of Agriculture and the Kenya
Institute of Administration has started.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical execution of the major parts of the project is about nine
months behind schedule, while completion of some of the smaller components
may be as much as 15 months late. Delays were due mainly to weak project
administration by the Ministry of Water Development, particularly in the
early stages. Progress has now improved to an acceptable pace although lost
time cannot be recovered. Disbursements have recently improved to about 80%
of the appraisal forecasts. There is an estimated cost overrun of about 15%
(expressed in US dollars) to be covered from Government resources. Institu-
tion building is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in recruiting and
retaining staff. Steps are underway to audit the accounts of the Coast
Province Water Branch for the first time. Tariff measures taken by the
Government have been satisfactory.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
This loan became effective on December 20, 1978. Progress on
detailed design, initial procurement steps and establishment of the Project
Implementation Unit has been generally good. Prequalification for construc-
tion contracts to be financed from the Bank loan has been completed and
bids for most of the major contracts will be opened before the end of
February 1979. Bids have been received for the OPEC Special Fund-financed
supply contracts and one, for electrical equipment, has been awarded. Most
of the major supply contracts to be financed by the Saudi Fund have been
awarded. Bid prices for supply contracts have been favorable, and total
project costs should remain in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: July 1, 1985
This loan is not yet effective. Some key project staff have already
been appointed, and recruitment efforts are underway to fill the remaining
posts. Consultants have been selected to assist with implementation of mea-
sures to strengthen the Ministry of Water Development, and the terms and con-
ditions of their employment are being finalized.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: US$12.6 million Credit of
December ,8, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: DF ember 30, 1979
The project was substantially completed in early 1977, about a year
and a half behind schedule. The delay was primarily caused by a slow start
in construction of the regional workshops and camps due to unforeseen diffi-
culties in the location of sites, acquisition of land, and procurement of
steel. The Credit included US$2.2 million for headquarters and field staff-
ing and consultant services, but Government obtained most of these services
through bilateral arrangements. There was consequently a saving of US$1.8
million under the project, which the Government requested be used to purchase
additional workshop equipment and tools. Since this would assist in achiev-
ing the project's goals, IDA authorized using the remaining funds for this
purpose. With this revision, total project costs are expected to be as
appraised. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 30, 1979 to allow
sufficient time for completion of procurement.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978. The
loan is almost 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.
Establishment of a commercial accounting system is now underway. The remain-
ing principal problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient staff for
operation and maintenance, both of which are constrained by a Kenya-wide
shortage of skilled personnel. A training program has been prepared by UNDP,
but its execution depends greatly on the effectiveness of recruitment efforts.
The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1979 to allow time for
completion of disbursements for the training program. The project completion
report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways: US$29.0 million loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation started eighteen months behind schedule due to changes
in design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. In
view of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the construction of two roads were
delayed.  Agreement has now been reached to delete the Thuchi-Nbuku (51 km)
road from the project.  The Closing Date, which was postponed from December
31, 1977 to December 31, 1979, is likely to be postponed further to allow time
for completion of construction of the Kisii-Mogonga road which has recently
gone out to tender; construction should begin in mid-1979.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. The Closing Date has been postponed to
September 30, 1979 to allow time for completion of disbursements.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7. 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is about eighteen months behind schedule, due to delays
in recruitment of staff and procurement of tools, although costs are not
expected to increase. Economic evaluations for the eight districts in which
Bank-financed units would be set up have been reviewed and approved by the
Bank; six construction units are now operating, and start up of the remaining
two units is expected shortly.   Through December 1978, 251 km of access roads
had been constructed. Labor intensive construction methods are being success-
fully applied and output and costs are in line with appraisal targets.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: US$12.0 million Credit of April 1.
1974; Effective Date: July 31, 1974: Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five-Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. Over 95% of construction work
has been completed, 82 out of 87 vehicles have been delivered, and 70% of the
furniture and equipment supplied. The Nursing Activities Study and the first
phase of the Study of Fertility Determinants have been completed, and the
program advisor has completed his work. The program components financed by
other donors and the Government are also moving ahead and are expected to be
completed on schedule. A postponement of the Closing Date to June 30, 1979
has been approved to permit completion of construction and procurement.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: US$59.5 million Loan 1/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in
June 1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled. Consultants' studies on possible
alternatives for future development and a long-term power development plan
are being reviewed by the Government and the Bank.
Loan No. S-12-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Loan of December 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30. 1981
This loan is not yet effective. Drilling is proceeding on schedule,
and specifications for the drill rig and accessories are now being prepared.
INDUSTRTAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Develonment Bank Project: US$5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974; Closing
Date: March 31, 1979
The first Bank loan of US$5.0 million to IDB, which became effective
on March 26, 1974 was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind schedule.
This delay was due to the cancellationi prior to disbursement of a number of
projects previously approved.  As at  January 31, 1979, US$4.4 million of this
loan had been disbursed. The Closing Date hIds been postponed to March 31,
1979.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development. Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9.
1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1979
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October 9,
1975.  The loan was fully comnitted in August 1978 and US$7.1 million had been
disbursed as at January 31, 1979.
I/  Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan
was cancelled on October 19, 1978.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Two sub-projects
have been approved. As at January 31, 1979, US$5.9 million had been com-
mitted and US$2.2 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 milion
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26. 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Measures to increase Kenya Industrial Estates' (KIE) capital have
been finalized. Key project staff have been recruited, but KIE's financial
staff requires further strengthening. KIE's guidelines for appraisal of sub-
projects are now being revised to reflect IDA's comments. The first subloan
has been approved.
URBAN SECTOP.
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 nillion Credit and US$8.0 million Loan of MIay 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Infrastructure has been completed for the first 1,000 plots and most
beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses. Infrastructure for an
additional 2,700 plots is under construction with tendering underway for
construction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots. Off-site
infrastructure is nearly completed. Community facilities provision continues
to be behind schedule. One primary school is now operational. Tender docu-
ments for the remaining five schools are under preparation. One health center
is under construction, however, the Bank does not plan to disburse against its
costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the Bank. The
design of the other health center should be submitted for approval soon.
Technical assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in
conjunction with the project. Project costs remain close to appraisal esti-
mates although minor cost overruns are foreseen for the remaining components
of the nrolect.
Credit No. 791-KE/Loan No. 1550-KE - Second Urban Project:  US$25.0
million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3  1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
This Credit and this Loan became effective.on October 3, 1978.
Kev posts in the Housing Development Departments of the three towns (Nairobi,
Mombasa and Kisumu) are filled and recruitment of other staff is making satis-
factory progress. Detailed design and engineering of the Phase I sites in
each town is underway. Tendering for consultancy services for Phase II is in
progress. However, progress in meeting disbursement conditions is slow in
Nairobi and Mombasa.  Although implementation of technical assistance compo-
nents is underway, some delays are expected.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, ..82
Preparation for project implementation has been slower than expected,
due largely to delays in recruitment of personnel for the Project Management
Unit (PMU) and the Wildlife Planning Unit (WPU). Officers for PMU have now
been appointed and consequently implementation is accelerating. CIDA recently
approved funding for six staff for the WPU for a period of four years, and
hopes to have much of the team in the field by the end of March 1979. Consul-
tants have been appointed for the preparation of design and tender documents
for park headquarters and work is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement
of vehicles and equipment for parks and for anti-poaching activities is in
progress. Work on the Tourism Pricing Study is nearing completion. Progress
on the Very Large Herbivores Study may be delayed as a result of differences
which have developed between the consultant partners, but Government is
mediating to assure that the study will continue. Government has largely
complied with the terms of a supplementary letter giving detailed proposals
for anti-poaching operations but some actions remain to be finalized. The
disbursement of loan funds for this component has now begun.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness; December 15, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
1/   Since October 1, 1977,the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a ligherage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.2 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA              (US$ million)
Kenya                           0.7
Tanzania                        0.6
Total                       1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                         1.7
Tanzania                      0.3
Total                     2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Prolect: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be



- 39 -
ANNEX II
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
(US$ Million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Prolect: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - September 19, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of head-
quarters. At January 31, 1979, about US$26.9 million of the loan had been
disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1977
among the countries concerned is as follows:
(US$ Million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank:  US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7, 1976;
Closing Date - March 31, 1979
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$6.9 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
D.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
January'31, 1979
Fiscal Year        Obligor                Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2      0.7      5.9
1970, 1974                               /1
and 1977       Pan African Paper Mills-PBulp and Paper    13.1          6.3    19.4
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels               2.4        -     2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                      Textiles            6.3      2.8      9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                      Capital Market      2.0       -      2.0
Total Gross Commitments                    29.0      9.8    38.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      8.6     1.8    10.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC          20.4     8.0    28.4
Total Undisbursed                           1.9      -       1.9
/1   Excludes loan of US$4.1 million approved on December 21, 1978 but not yet
signed. Signature of loan is expected to take place in March 1979.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:       One year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:       KPTC
(c)  First presentation to Bank:          April 1978
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:    September 1978
(e)  Completion of negotiations:          January 1979
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned:          June 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section. III: Special Conditions
(a) Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and KPTC, acceptable to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan (para. 52).
(b) By December 31, 1979, KPTC would retain a suitably
qualified and experienced financial adviser on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank to review
existing accounting procedures and assist in the implemen-
tation of new procedures (para. 59).
(c) Government would undertake a study, to be submitted to the
*                 Bank for review and comment by June 30, 1980, to:  (a) clearly
define the respective responsibilities of KPTC and KENEXTEL
in providing external telecommunications services, and the
operation and maintenance of equipment used in providing
these services; and (b) work out an agreement between KPTC
and KENEXTEL which would govern the allocation of revenues
(para. 60).



- 42 -
ANNEX III
(d) KPTC would undertake a detailed review of the tariff
structure, to be completed by December 31, 1979, paying
special attention to a possible differentiation in rates
between manual and automatic calls; classification of
Government, business and private subscribers; and the
level of connection and reconnection charges (para. 64).
(e) Tariffs would be maintained at levels sufficient to achieve
a rate of return of at least 10% on revalued average net
fixed telecommunications assets in operation (para. 61).
(f) Telecommunications revenues would not be used for purposes
other than telecommunications development and operations,
unless such revenues were in excess of telecommunications
requirements (para. 62).



IBRD 13951
K>                     ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W>                              NQTh1ADER 978~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ER17
lSi'm.                                                                 .9s 9
P A. '@ .t n.
at   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9
N           9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H
. A , r 6 '           *                      3 z ' g o S  2r*    S   '
_~ /                         s                                                                                      U;_      /  t  :
i. o  SSWX|C/
F 0 . X r~~~~~~~ l D 9 .' fa~~~~~~S                         .                 <i. 
iA       -      D                                      9                           /         zx<gAh;
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---u--  L    * <  1zA v JrAzn
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 41
M~~  mi
Z~~~~U40~~~~~~   U ~ ~






IBRD 13952
NOWMEER
.. .......
CD I --,':              S    7A
f-A
Em
c   Z
Z
2
7.
I A C'F   roRKAN                                                                                                                                                                                                           F
Jj
2u
2
z                                     S!a    cno,*Y-
V                                                                                           AF;
M1 Z-
t
VW                                                                            U,
n4,



