Document of
The World Bank                                       -4
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.   2262-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
March 5, 1979
Energy, Water and Telecommunications Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and miay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othervwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =  K Sh 8.00
K Sh 1          =  US$0.125
K Sh 1,000,000  =  US$125,000
FISCAL YEAR
Government:    July 1 - June 30
KPTC           January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THE REPORT
Carrier       -  a system of providing a number of circuits over one radio
link, coaxial cable, or a pair of wires
Channel       -  one circuit of a carrier system carrying speech or telegraph
signals
DELs          -  direct exchange lines
EA EXTELCOM   -  East African External Telecommunications Company Limited,
a private company limited by shares established and existing
under the terms of the Borrower
EAPTC         -  East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation--an
autonomous government-owned public corporation responsible
for the operation of all public services in the telecommuni-
cations sector in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. The corpora-
tion has now ceased to operate with the break up of the East
African Community
HF/UHF/VHF    -  high frequency ratio up to 30 MHz; ultra high frequency
radio beyond 300 MHz; and very high frequency radio between
30-300 MHz
KENEXTEL      -  Kenya External Telecommunications Company Limited--an
autonomous government-owned company responsible for the main-
tenance and operations of Kenya's external telecommunications.
KPTC          -  Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation--an autonomous
government-owned public corporation responsible for the oper-
ation of all public service in the telecommunications sector
MHz           -  Megahertz
Microwave     -  radio system working at frequencies above 300 MHz but normally
applied to systems working at frequencies above 1,000 MHz
Multiplex     -  part of the equipment in a carrier system--see above
Telex         -  telegraph exchange service for subscribers



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.    THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS  SECTOR  .............................                           1
Background and Organization  .............               ...        ................   1
Access  to Service  ........I ...................                .                     1
Telephone  Service Usage  ............   ................... .                         2
Quality of Telephone  ServiLce and Existing  Facilities  ... ...                       3
Demand  for Service  .............   .................... .                            4
Sector Objectives  .............. ..............................                       4
Sector Constraints  .........             ...........................                  6
The Bank's Role  ........              ....................................            7
2.    THE PROGRAM AND PROJECT  ...................................                            8
The Program   .............................................. .                         8
The Project                 ...............................................            9
Project  Cost  ............           .......................                          9
Contingencies  ............... ..................................    10
Items  and Sources  of Financing  ............................    11
Procurement                 ...............................................    11
Project  Implementation  ....................................    12
Disbursements  ..............................................    12
Performance  Indicators  .........   .......................... .    12
3.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ...... ...............                  .....................    13
Telecommunications  and Development  .....                  ...................    13
The Distribution  of Benefits  ..............................    14
Tariff Policy  .............................................    14
Least Cost  Solution  .......              ................................    15
Return on Investment  ........ ......... .....................    16
Risk                             ....     16
Environmental  and Health Aspects                 ..........................    16
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which
visited Kenya in September 1978, comprising Messrs. M. DeLima, (Engineer);
M. Sergo, (Financial Analyst); and D. Cleevely, (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



Page No.
4.      THE  IMPLEMENTING  AGENCY   ....................................                                           17
Organization   .               .............................................                              17
Staff   .....................................................                                             18
Training            ..................................................                                    18
Accounting  ...............................................    19
Billing  and  Collection                          ....................................                    19
Auditing            ..................................................                                    19
Insurance .           .................................................                                   20
5.      FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS                        ........................................                        20
Settlement  of  EAPTC's  Assets  and  Liabilities   ......                                  ........      20
Postal  Operations                 ....................               .....................               21
Kenya External Telecommunications Company, Ltd.  ..                                         .........   21
KPTC's  Past  Financial  Performance   .........................                                          21
Present  Financial  Position   .......                         .........................                  22
Valuation  of  Assets                  ...................              ....................              23
Financing  Plan              .....................                .......................                 24
Projected  Financial  Performance  ............                             ..      .............         25
6.      RECOMMENDATIONS   ...........                        ................................                      26



LIST OF ANNEXES
Page No.
1.   International Telephone Statistics                                        27
2.   Distribution of Business and Residential Lines                            28
3.   Distribution of Revenues Generated by Exchange Lines
Provincewise                                                            30
4.   Basic Data as of December 31, 1977, and as of December 31, 1983    31
5.   Exchange Capacity and Connected Lines as of December 31, 1976,
and 1977, and Forecast (1978-84)                                        32
6.   Investment Program (1979-83)                                              33
7.   Physical Program (1979-83)                                                34
8.   Schedule of Construction - Chart No. WB 79403                             39
9.   Schedule of Disbursements                                                 40
10.   Performance Indicators                                                    41
11.   Summary of Tariffs                                                        42
12.   Return on Investment                                                      44
13.   Organization - Chart No. WB 19402                                         46
14.   Staff Details                                                             47
15.   Breakdown of Accounts Receivable                                          49
16.   Financial Statements (1976-78)                                            50
17.   Income Statement (1976-83)                                                54
18.   Balance Sheet (1976-83)                                                   55
19.   Funds Flow Statement (1976-83)                                            56
20.   Debt Statement (1976-83)                                                  57
21.   Notes and Assumptions on 'Financial Statements                            58
22.   Related Documents and Data Available in Project File                      61
MAPS
1    Local Exchange Network (I:BRD 13951)
2    Long Distance Network  (I:BRD 13952)






1. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background and Organization
2
1.01      Kenya has an area of about 583,000 km . The present population is
estimated at about 14.4 million of which 90% live in the southern, more agri-
culturally fertile part. Agriculture is the main economic activity in Kenya
and ranges from traditional subsistence and small holder to well organized
large scale farming. In the northern part of the country, there are few
roads and these are sometimes impassable during the wet season. Given this
and a generally underdeveloped infrastructure, the efficient administration
of government services is impeded.
1.02      With the break-up of the East African Community (EAC) including
the East African Posts and Telecomrunications Corporation (EAPTC), the
Government of Kenya created in 1977 the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (KPTC) which is an autonomous government-owned corporation
under the Ministry of Power and Commnunications. KPTC is responsible for
maintenance and operation of all local and national telecommunications
services, international telegraph and telex services, and the operation of
international telephone services. Kenya External Telecommunications Company
(KENEXTEL)--the other operating telecommunications organization--is a state-
owned company, responsible for the maintenance and operation of the inter-
national automatic telephone exchange and earth satellite station located
near Nairobi.
1.03      The Ministry of Home Affairs and the Aerodromes Department also
manage some telecommunications services, but solely for their administrative
and operational needs. Private users can operate point-to-point telecommuni-
cations services after obtaining a license from KPTC. These licenses are
issued on an annual basis, but only when KPTC is not in a position to provide
such services efficiently.
Access to Service
1.04      As of January 1, 1977, Kenya's telephone density of 1.0 telephones 1/
or 0.48 connections (DELs) per 100 population was about average compared
with neighboring countries. Annex 1 sets out international telephone statis-
tics. Existing telephone service is concentrated in the Nairobi area where
the telephone density is 10.8 telephones or 5.1 connections (DELs) per 100
population. Telephone density in the rest of the country is approximately
1/   The current ratio of telephones to connections is about 2.4 which is
abnormally high. Due to shortage of external plant, KPTC has installed
extensions to existing connections even when subscribers needed addi-
tional connections. Consequently, telephone density based on telephones
(not connections) does not fully represent normal quality telephone
penetration.



- 2 -
0.4 telephones and 0.22 connections per 100 population. As of July 31, 1978,
there were 63,311 (DELs) 1/ in Kenya distributed as follows:
Number    Percentage    Percentage
Area           of DELs      of DELs     of Population
Nairobi                 35,975           57              6
Rest of the country    27,336            43            94
Total              63,311          100           100
1.05      For purposes of government administration, population centers have
been classified as (a) principal towns with populations exceeding 19,000 and
which have local municipalities; (b) urban centers with a population of 2,000
and more and which are district administrative headquarters; (c) rural centers
with divisional administrative headquarters; and (d) market and local centers
which are the smallest administrative units. All principal towns (ten in
number), 73 of the 86 urban centers, 62 of the 150 rural centers, 31 of the
420 market centers, and 18 of the 1,018 local centers have local or long
distance telephone facilities. Telegraph service is generally available
to all centers except local centers.
1.06      In order to obtain a telephone connection, a potential subscriber
must register on a waiting list. Connections are made (subject to technical
feasibility and the availability of exchange and cable capacity) in the
order in which names appear on the waiting list, i.e., according to the
date of application. The official waiting list, which is maintained only
in those areas in which service currently exists, totals about 24,000; 15,500
in Nairobi and 8,500 in the rest of the country. Waiting times for telephone
applicants in Nairobi range up to four years depending on the exchange area.
Telephone Service Usage
1.07      Since there is no differentiation in tariffs between business and
residential subscribers, the distribution of subscribers is not readily
available. However, estimates derived through the sampling of subscribers in
several exchange areas throughout the country show that on average about 70%
of the connections are located in business (and government) establishments,
and about 40% of all connections installed at residences are used primarily
for business purposes. Details are set out in Annex 2 and summarized below:
1/   DELs have been chosen (rather than number of subscribers) as the unit for
comparison, because they reflect the degree of use of the system since
a subscriber may rent many DELs and this can distort comparisons, espe-
cially in Nairobi.



-3-
Business       Residential       Public
Area                        Connections    Connections    Telephones
-----------------Percent-----------------
Nairobi                             64.5             34.0            1.5
Rest of the country                  76.5            22.0            1.5
Total                          70.0            28.5             1.5
1.08      Traffic generated in automatic exchange areas by business and
government connections accounts for almost 75% of the total. The impact of
business-related usage on the system is much greater than these statistics
indicate, however, since business, government, and residential connections
used for business purposes generate most of the traffic during the peak call-
ing hours, and as a result are the primary determinants of system capacity
costs. The importance of large business and government users is also illus-
trated by the fact that about 46% of KPTC's telephone revenue is generated by
10% of the connections. Details are set out in Annex 3 and are summarized
below:
Cumulative percent of connections    20.0   40.0   60.0   80.0   90.0
Generated revenue                        2.0    6.0   14.4   33.3   53.9
1.09      The pattern of long distance traffic reflects the fact that Nairobi
is the center of the national economy. In total, more than 60% of all traffic
generated in the national network is directed towards Nairobi. Samples have
shown that in small communities over 50% of all calls made are directed
towards Nairobi, while in medium-sized towns, almost 70% of the calls ter-
minate in the capital city.
Quality of Telephone Service and Existing Facilities
1.10      Lack of timely investment and proper planning in the past have
caused the telephone network to exhibit a number of deficiencies, which have
led to poor service. Contributing to this was the breakdown of EAC and EAPTC,
which delayed by at least two years all projects prepared for execution by
EAPTC. Currently, the high number of telephones connected (about an average
of 2.4) on each connection (a situation brought about largely by lack of cable
equipment to provide additional connections) has increased calling rates and
created considerable local network congestion, necessitating repeated attempts
to complete calls during peak business hours.



- 4 -
1.11      Facilities for subscriber trunk dialing (STD) of long distance calls
are available to subscribers connected through nearly all the local automatic
exchanges in the country; for those connected through manual exchanges in
rural and semi-urban areas long distance service is provided on a manual
basis. Considerable call traffic congestion on the long distance STD service
has been caused by (a) a shortage of long distance circuits and the resulting
very high rate of ineffective traffic, and (b) a repeat call problem when
trying to call into local networks which, during busy hours, are tied up due to
high local usage. The unsatisfactory long distance STD service has resulted
in the diversion of long distance traffic to manual switchboards causing an
overload on existing manual switchboards and several hours delay in setting
up calls during busy hours. The overall result of all these network problems
has been a large unsatisfied demand and unsatisfactory service. Basic data as
of December 31, 1977, and projections for 1983, are set out at Annex 4.
1.12      Access to international service is available through an earth
satellite station near Nairobi and through microwave, VHF radio links, or
open-wire systems to neighboring countries. The quality of service through
the earth satellite portion of the system is good.
Demand for Service
1.13      Given the relatively low level of investment in the sector during
the last four years and the large areas of the country which are now without
telephone service, it is difficult to accurately forecast the future demand
for service in Kenya. In attempting to forecast demand in this difficult
situation, KPTC carried out block-by-block surveys in many of its existing
exchange areas and consulted with town planning and other development author-
ities about plans for future development. With these data and the current
official tabulation of registered unsatisfied demand in those areas where
some service now exists, demand forecasts have been made through 1985. The
forecasts are considered conservative but acceptable.
1.14      After making about 52,000 additional connections during the proposed
project period (1979-83), KPTC will still have an unfilled demand of 19,000
(12,000 of these in Nairobi).
Sector Objectives
1.15      During the next 10 to 15 years, KPTC plans to extend local services
and high quality long distance circuits using the latest available techniques,
and further concentrate attention on providing basic telecommunications
facilities to rural areas which are currently poorly served. KPTC proposes
to move toward these sector objectives under the proposed project by:



- 5 -
(a) significantly expanding local networks in Nairobi;
(b)  expanding access to telephone service in rural areas
by increasing capacity of small exchanges, and opening
of new public call offices in communities (rural, market
and local centers) now without telephone facilities;
(c) improving the quality of 'Local service;
(d) upgrading and expanding the long distance network to
handle the additional traf-fic which is forecast; and
(e)  improving KPTC's management procedures and financial
management capabilities.
1.16      Quantitatively, the number of connections will increase from about
66,900 in 1978 to about 118,900 in L983. Exchange capacity and connected
lines as of December 31, 1976, and :1977, and forecast (1978-84) are set out in
Annex 5.  About 200 public call offices would be installed to provide service
to all rural centers and some market and local centers which do not now have
local telephone access. Additional:Ly, all 13 of the centers which are defined
by Government as urban centers and which are now without service, would be
provided with long distance service. Changes in selected parameters, reflect-
ing expected changes over the project period, are shown below:



-6-
1977   1983
Direct exchange lines per 100 population 1/
Kenya                                                          0.5      0.6
Nairobi                                                        5.1      5.5
Rest of the country                                            0.2      0.3
Telephones per 100 population (density)
Kenya                                                           1.0     1.1
Nairobi                                                       10.8    10.9
Rest of the country 2/                                         0.4      0.4
Telephone availability 3/
Kenya                                                         72       86
Nairobi                                                       70       84
Rest of the country                                           77       89
Officially registered/Forecast unsatisfied demand
Kenya                                                       24,000  19,000
Nairobi                                                     15,500  12,000
Rest of the country                                          8,500   7,000
1/   The current ratio of telephones to connections is 2.4; thus although many
new lines will be installed, the quality of service improved, and the
waiting list decreased, the number of telephones will not significantly
change and thus will have no marked effect on telephone density. Direct
exchange lines have, therefore, been used as a better index of change.
2/   These data basically reflect individual telephones and do not include
the effect of increased access in rural centers through the proposed
installation of public call offices.
3/   Telephone availability is defined as the ratio of connections to con-
nections plus unfilled demand.
Sector Constraints
1.17      The major constraints impeding progress in the sector have been
inadequate investment during recent years and institutional deficiencies
related to a lack of continuous planning, and a shortage of trained technical
staff. The shortage of technical staff has been partly made up, but KPTC is
still not self-sufficient in local expertise.
1.18      The expansion of the sector has been and still is tied to KPTC's
capacity to generate funds from internal sources, or to borrow externally,
since KPTC is basically constrained to developing the sector without either
direct financial support from Government, or significant local borrowing.



- 7 -
Over the 1979-83 project period KPTC plans to finance 84% of the proposed
investment program with internally generated funds.  External borrowing will
cover the balance.
The Bank's Role
1.19      The Bank has been continuously associated with the telecommunica-
tions sector in the EAC which, prior to 1977, was managed by EAPTC. In
February 1967 the Bank approved a UJ3$13.0 million loan (483-EA) to EAPTC to
help finance a project designed to increase local and long distance facil-
ities. The project was satisfactorily completed in early 1974. A second
loan (675-EA) for US$10.4 million was approved in 1970 to finance a project
to further extend the telecommunications services. This project was satis-
factorily completed in June 1975. 'The third loan (914-EA) was approved
in May 1973 for US$32.5 million to further extend telecommunications services.
Due to problems in the East African Community, leading to its break up, the
works to be undertaken on the third project have been delayed. The Kenya
part of the project is now anticipated to be completed by mid 1980--about
four and one-half years behind schedule.
1.20      The combined Operations Evaluation Department's Report on the first
two projects, while holding an over.all positive view of the Bank's achieve-
ments, points out the large delays in project implementation caused by inade-
quate planning and project management, problems in procurement, and the
failure to meet demand for service. While the first three projects were
managed by the EAPTC, it is felt that KPTC, which will manage this proposed
project, has the ability to implement the execution of the project and is now
fully conversant with procurement procedures. Furthermore, KPTC has already
prepared draft bidding documents for goods on this project; and has designed
the current project so that it, together with a subsequent project. to be
initiated during 1983 will by 1985 substantially meet forecast demand in most
areas which then have service. The deficiencies in planning and management
are expected to be eliminated during the project period (see paras. 4.03 and
4.09).
1.21      The Bank's participation since January 1967 through the three
projects to the EAC has enabled Kenya to:
(a)  establish a modern long distance telecommunications
network with the associated long distance exchanges
to link together most principal areas of the country
and to initiate the provision of a nationwide sub-
scriber dialing network ccvering a number of the
larger exchanges in the country. In 1967, long
distance service which is an essential requirement
for government, industry and commerce consisted of
only a few unreliable radio and open wire circuits
between the main towns and was operated on a maniual
basis andjsubject to considerable delays. At the
end of 1977, the number of long distance circuits
was over 2,200 improving service considerably;



- 8 -
(b) expand the local telephone services in Nairobi and in the
larger towns in the provinces. Kenya's local exchange net-
work in 1967 comprised a total of about 29,000 lines (24,000
of which were automatic) of exchange equipment with about
26,000 connections. At the end of 1977, Kenya operated about
87,600 exchange lines with about 62,400 connections (over
52,600 of which were automatic)--an increase of 240% in
connected lines. Delays in initiating the fourth project
resulted in shortage of equipment. Due to the pressure to
give more connections, KPTC installed extensions to existing
telephones which have caused an overload on the system.
Considerable congestion now exists in the local and long
distance network (paras 1.10 and 1.11); and
(c) create a financial base and establish an institutional frame-
work for development and future expansion. The number of
expatriates has been reduced substantially during the last
ten years and KPTC employed 37 in a total of about 4,500
employees at the end of 1977.
1.22      The Bank's role in this project is generally to assist KPTC in
attaining the objectives set out in paragraph 1.15. While KPTC has made
progress in the technical and planning areas, the financial area is in need
of special attention since under the EAC the financial management function
was centrally handled in Uganda. Now, having been transferred to Kenya,
it is undergoing considerable strain in organization and staffing (para.
4.09). KPTC also needs to improve in-house capabilities for the future
planning of facilities, the identification of projects for balanced develop-
ment, the improvement of service quality, and demand forecasting. The Bank
will assist KPTC's institution building efforts in the above areas through
close association in the financing and monitoring of the project, and will
continue to encourage KPTC in the major effort of providing long distance
facilities to an increased number of rural communities.
2. THE PROGRAM AND PROJECT
The Program
2.01      KPTC has drawn up a five-year (1979-83) telecommunications develop-
ment program which comprises the following main items:
(a) ongoing works (including the third Bank financed
project) carried over from previous years;
(b) routine minor works;
(c) installation of a 1,300 line telex system and
procurement of 1,080 teleprinters;



- 9 -
(d) the project for Bank loan (see para. 2.03); and
(e) preinvestment for extension of equipment being :installed
under the 1979-83 program., and planned for completion
in 1985.
Of the ongoing works, microwave radio and multiplex equipment being installed
under the third project is expected to be commissioned by June 1980. The
telex system is scheduled for installation during 1982.
2.02      The estimated cost of the program is about K Sh 854.5 million
(US$106.8 million equivalent). Annual program costs from 1979 through 1983
are set out in Annex 6.
The Project
2.03      The objectives of the project are outlined at paragraph 1.15.  The
project proposed for Bank financing is a high priority self-conta:ined part of
KPTC's 1979-83 development program; provides for a balanced and integrated
development of facilities; and will be carried out between 1979 and 1983.
Some of the buildings needed to house project equipment have already been
constructed. The project comprises mainly the installation of the following:
(a)  a total of about 46,200 additional lines of local
automatic exchange equipment with associated cables
and subscribers' plant, and a total of about 46,000
additional connections (see Annex 5);
(b)  long distance public call offices to provide services
in about 200 urban, rural and market centers currently
without telephone services;
(c)  eight microwave radio systems each with a capacity of
960 channels; three UHF radio systems with a total of
540 channels; about 190 UHIF/VHF channels; and multiplex
equipment to provide about: 3,100 additional channels;
(d)  eleven long distance automatic exchanges with a total
of about 3,600 terminations; and extensions to existing
such exchanges by a total of about 1,800 terminations; and
(e)  buildings to house equipment.
Project Cost
2.04      The total cost of the projiect is estimated at about K Sh. 508.3 mil-
lion (US$63.5 million equivalent) including a foreign exchange expenditure of
about US$49.0 million equivalent). The cost of the project, shown. in detail
in Annex 6, is summarized as follows:



- 10 -
Local   Foreign  Total       Local   Foreign   Total
----K Sh (million)----            (US$ million)-----
Local Facilities
Exchange equipment              16.7    122.5    139.2         2.1      15.3      17.4
Cables                          16.0      41.9      57.9       2.0       5.2       7.2
Subscribers plant               8.0      24.0      32.0       1.0       3.0       4.0
Subtotal                   40.7    188.4    229.1        5.1       23.5      28.6
Long Distance Facilities
Transmission equipment           5.7      97.9    103.6        0.8       12.2     13.0
Switching equipment              4.4      22.6      27.0       0.5       2.8       3.3
Subtotal                   10.1    120.5    130.6        1.3       15.0      16.3
International Exchange             -         8.5       8.5        -         1.1      1.1
Rural Services                      1.5     16.0      17.5       0.2        2.0       2.2
Buildings                         37.8        -       37.8       4.7         -       4.7
Consultants                        -         8.5       8.5        -         1.1       1.1
Base Cost                    90.1    341.8    431.9       11.3       42.7      54.0
Contingencies
Physical                        2.7        -        2.7       0.3        -        0.3
Price (17%)                    23.7      49.9      73.6       2.9       6.3       9.2
TOTAL EXPECTED COST OF PROJECT 116.5    391.8    508.3          14.5       49.0     63.5
2.05      The project costs reflect estimated December 1977 prices based on
KPTC's experience with contracts relating to ongoing works and those com-
pleted under Loan 914-EA, with adjustments to bring them up to the projected
December 1978 level. The project estimates are reasonable. KPTC is exempt
from payment of customs duties on imported goods and pays no taxes.
Contingencies
2.06      Price contingencies for project costs amount to 17% of total base
and physical contingency costs. They result from the year-by-year estimated
local cost increases of: 1979 - 7.5%; 1980 through 1983 - 7% annually; and
the year-by-year estimate foreign cost increases of 1979 - 6.5%; 1980 and
1981 - 6% annually. The foreign cost increases are applied to the contract
date since all contracts in this sector are made on a fixed price basis and
are likely to be signed by end 1979 and most of the equipment is likely to
be received by mid 1981.



- 11 -
2.07      Except for variations in quantities, which could occur in civil
works and for which a physical contingency amounting to 5%, of local costs
has been provided, no other physical contingencies are considered necessary.
Provision of local and long distance exchange lines, telephones, microwave
radio equipment and multiplex terminal channels proposed to be procured and
installed under the project are based on detailed forecasl:s of equipment
quantities and detailed engineering. In view of this, the proposed quanti-
ties of equipment are not expected to change significantly, and according
to experience any unexpected increases of equipment on some routes are com-
pensated by corresponding unexpected decreases on other routes. In the case
of cable networks, the dispersion of these networks throughout the country
permits flexibility and adjustments, which make provision of physical contin-
gencies unnecessary.
Items and Sources of Financing
2.08      Of the project's foreign zost of US$49.0 million, the proposed
Bank loan would provide US$20 million; Japanese supplier (Hitachi') would
provide a US$6.1 million credit.  The balance of US$22.9 million could be
provided to KPTC against local currency funds by the Government, either from
its own resources or through additional financing from external sources.
The items for Bank loan in US$ (million) are as follows:
Local Exchange Equipment                         8.9
Cables                                           2.6
Subscribers' Plant                               0.8
Transmission Equipment                           2.2
Long Distance Switching Equipment                 1.4
Rural Services                                   2.0
Contingencies                                    2.1
Total                              20.0
Procurement
2.09      Except for extensions of two exchanges, estimated to cost US$0.4
million, all goods to be obtained under the project with the Bank loan would
be procured through international competitive bidding in accordanc.e with the
Bank's Guidelines. The exceptions relate to the procurement of automatic ex-
change equipment to expand existing facilities procured through international
competitive bidding under the earlier EAPTC loans. For purposes of standard-
ization these expansions are required to be procured through negotiations with
suppliers of existing equipment. The Bank loan would be utilized for procure-
ment of this equipment provided that the prices are reasonably in line with
those obtained for similar equipment through recent international competitive
bidding in Kenya and elsewhere. Of the goods proposed to be financed under
the Bank loan, telephones are the orLly items locally manufactured. Qualified
local manufacturers could be allowed a preference in bid evaluation of 15%



- 12 -
of the CIF price, or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. KPTC
proposes to utilize Japanese suppliers' credits to procure some local, long
disLance and additional common equipment for the existing international
exchange. All other imported goods (to be procured through KPTC's own re-
sources) would be obtained through international competitive bids. Goods such
as cable ducts and some external plant, which are manufactured locally and
which would be financed by KPTC's own resources, would be obtained through
local competitive bids. The local procurement system permits competition and
is satisfactory.
Project Implementation
2.10      The proposed schedule for project execution as set out in Annexes 7
and 8 is realistic; KPTC's staff would prepare engineering designs for all
equipment. KPTC plans to retain the assistance of Crown Agents, UK, to revise
and finalize bid documents and bid evaluation, and make contract payments.
This assistance is largely of a legal and administrative nature. The consul-
tants' reimbursement will be based on a percentage (about 3%) of the cost of
equipment procured with their assistance. These arrangements are satisfactory.
KPTC would lay and commission all local and junction cables, and would super-
vise the construction of cable ducts by local contractors. All installation
works would be carried out by KPTC technical staff, except in case of new and
sophisticated type of switching equipment where KPTC's staff would assist
the contractor's staff. KPTC would carry out the acceptance tests on all
installed equipment. KPTC's management is sufficiently experienced and is
capable of managing the above work satisfactorily.  The project is expected
to be completed by December 31, 1983.
Disbursements
2.11      The estimated schedule of the Bank loan disbursements is set out
in Annex 9. Disbursements would be made for (a) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 60% of local expenditures for subscribers' plant, and (b) 100% of
foreign expenditures for all other goods specified under the loan. Where
necessary, disbursements would include the foreign cost of installation of
goods. All disbursements would be fully documented. The closing date of
the loan would be June 30, 1983.
Performance Indicators
2.12      Indicators which will help monitor KPTC's project implementation
and operational and financial performance are given in Annex 10. These were
discussed during negotiations and confirmed for inclusion in KPTC project
progress reports to be sent to the Bank.



- 13 -
3. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
3.01       The economic analysis relates primarily to KPTC's 1979-83 telecom-
munications investment program, of which the Bank project is an integral part.
Telecommunications and Development
3.02      Usage of the telephone service in Kenya is heavy, with substantial
waiting lists and significant traffic congestion. Currently forecast demand
is not expected to be met at the end of the project period in 1983 (para 1.14).
3.03      Under the third development plan (1974-78) growth in the economy
was greatly aided by a concurrent growth in infrastructure. This enabled
a steady expansion of the agricultural base of the economy, aided the dis-
persal of industry into regions outside Nairobi, and encouraged the growth
of tourism, Kenya's third largest foreign exchange earner. As output con-
tinues to increase in these sectors, communications needs grow, and the
least cost means of communication for an increasing proportion of the
population is becoming some form of telecommunications.
3.04      KPTC's 1979-83 development program will continue the distribution
of telecommunications services to riegions outside Nairobi, increase access
in the more isolated rural areas, expand system capacity, and upgrade the
quality of local, long distance and international telephone services. In
Kenya, telephones and telex are primarily used as intermediate inputs in the
production of goods and services. 1/ Telecommunications are used in many
agricultural, industrial, service, and trade activities throughout Kenya
and a large proportion of national traffic is directed to Nairobi which is
the administrative and commercial center (para. 1.09). The program will thus
help foster economic integration and increased management efficiency in Kenya
by (a) reducing the number of subscribers waiting for telephones; (b) facil-
itating improvements in transport and delivery services in both urban and
rural areas; (c) reducing losses of production and marketing efficiency
resulting from lack of communications; (d) reducing wastage of resources
consumed by higher cost means of communication such as transport; (e) reducing
wastage of time caused by having to make repeat attempts during peak business
hours; and (f) bringing more efficient government administration; particularly
to the remote northern areas. In acddition, the relatively high taLriffs and
continued growth in demand will ensure a steady flow of public savings.
1/   Over 70% of exchange lines are used almost exclusively for business
or public administration. The network is designed for peak daytime
traffic periods, during which business-related traffic is even more
dominating.



- 14 -
The Distribution of Benefits
3.05      There are both efficiency and equity aspects to the distribution
of benefits from the proposed telecommunications program. As the program
progresses the relatively high tariffs will help to ensure that in serviced
areas individual telephone usage is rationed in such a way that at the margin
those business and government subscribers who are willing to pay the highest
prices for telephones (and therefore who presumably will incur the most
benefits from having a telephone) can get one within, at most, one to two
years of application. The primary dominance of the network by business
and government usage is unlikely to change greatly over the program period.
The program is designed to expand the share of telecommunications to those
provinces in which waiting lists and revenue per line are the highest.
3.06      With regard to the equity aspects of the program, telephone service
is being significantly expanded into rural and provincial areas. Public call
offices will be introduced into approximately 200 small communities (rural,
market and local centers) now without telephone access, and small exchanges
will be introduced into or expanded in approximately 24 other communities.
The increased access in rural areas and in poorer communities in the provinces,
together with a financial cross-subsidy from urban subscribers to those rural
connections which prove to be unprofitable, should ensure a more equitable
distribution of the benefits of the telephone service in Kenya.
3.07      Finally, excess funds generated by the telecommunications sector
in Kenya are deposited with the Government and can be used for development
projects in other sectors. During the 1975-78 period part of the interna-
tional revenues (K Sh 106.3 million in 1978), billed by KPTC and paid to
KENEXTEL (as from 1978) have been deposited with the Government and this
situation is expected to continue during the project period. The telecom-
munications sector is also expected to finance, from surplus funds, the
capital investment program of the postal sector, and over the project period
this is expected to amount to approximately K Sh 66 million (see para. 5.02).
In other respects, the postal service is expected to be self-supporting.
Tariff Policy
3.08      KPTC's telecommunications tariffs do not distinguish between business
and residential subscribers, although for long distance calls two charging
rates are used: a standard day rate and a lower rate for nights and weekends.
The night and weekend rate reflects the lower marginal cost of carrying traffic
outside of the busy periods since the system was dimensioned for peak hour
usage. The higher daytime tariff ensures that those (primarily business and
government) who have the greatest need at peak times will pay a price which
more closely reflects the costs which they impose on the system. A summary
of tariffs is set out in Annex 11.
3.09      Local calls are untimed.  Per kilometer charges for long distance
calls decrease with distance, reflecting the decreasing costs. The corres-
ponding three-minute manual call rate is identical to a three-minute automatic



- 15 -
(STD) rate. Normally, the operating costs on manual calls are higher than
automatic (STD) calls, and manual calls are, therefore, generally charged at
a higher rate. Since there is currently considerable congestion on the STD
network, any attempt at raising manual call rates to get subscribers to use
the STD system would at this time onily increase congestion. KPTC should,
however, review the differential in rates as soon as an ad[equate grade of
service is provided on STD (para. 3.12).
3.10      Kenya's present tariffs which have been in existence since February
1975 are relatively high. At that time unit call charges for ordinary tele-
phones were raised by 62.5%, rental charges were doubled, and conrection fees
increased by 50%.  The local call charges on coin boxes remained unchanged
partially to ensure that those who could not afford a subscriber telephone
had relatively cheap access to serv:ice.
3.11      Over the project period there are several issues relating to tariff
structures which need to be examined.  The first relates to the fact that the
number of disconnections and reconnections are numerous as compared with most
telecommunication administrations and it is possible that this is partly due
to charges for connection and reconnection being too low. As KPTC's technical
capacity for making connections is limited, ways to reducet disconnection and
reconnection of existing subscribers should be sought. Secondly, no discri-
mination in the fixed rental charges exists between business and private
subscribers. KPTC should consider c-lassifying the subscribers into business,
private and government categories to permit more meaningful traffic studies
and to provide a basis for an eventual change in the tariff structure. A
third issue is that as STD service becomes more widespreacl and transmission
costs fall as the system expands, a reduction in the price of STD long dis-
tance calls relative to manual calls should be considered. Finally, it is
possible that the introduction of toll ticketing on long distance circuits
would aid KPTC in billing and collection, in setting out a more efficient long
distance network, and would help KPTC to set tariffs to MaLtch the cost of the
service.
3.12      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that KPTC will
undertake and finish before December 31, 1979 a study of t:he tariff structure,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. Special attention would
be given to a possible differentiation in rates between manual and automatic
calls; discrimination between governament, business, and private subscribers;
and the level of connection and reconnection charges. Steps to be taken to
complete the study of the tariff structure by December 31, 1979 were discussed
and agreed upon during negotiations. Results and recommendations of this
study would be reviewed with the Bank.
Least Cost Solution
3.13      The configuration of existing network and KPTC's targets of expand-
ing and improving service within the 1979-83 five-year plan (see para. 2.01),
very much limit the number of viable alternative solutions to comply with
those targets.  The 'dimensioning and timing of the works under the 1979-83
program, of which the Bank project is an integral part, are based on engineer-
ing studies designed to determine tne least cost solution for each work.



- 16 -
Given existing telecommunications technology, the program as a whole repre-
sents a least cost solution to comply with the targets set out in KPTC's
five-year plan.
Return on Investment
3.14      The internal financial rate of return, defined as the discount rate
which equalizes the present value of the cost and revenue streams (in 1979
prices) attributable to the program, is 35% (Annex 12). Shadow pricing
foreign exchange at K Sh 11 per US$1, the internal rate of return is 27%.
3.15      The above rates of return significantly understate the real benefits
to be derived from the investment program. One reason for this is that the
benefits stream used in the calculation is based only on the current observed
willingness of subscribers to pay KPTC for telecommunications services. Thus,
they do not include the consumer surplus which subscribers and other callers
receive. The 1975 tariff increase (para. 3.10) caused only a small short-
term decrease in traffic. This indicated that a significant amount of con-
sumer surplus was captured at that time. Since then inflation has resulted
in prices falling substantially in real terms and it is projected that they
will continue to do so. Hence a portion of future consumer surplus has been
estimated by tabulating over the program period the prices in real terms (1979
level) which existing subscribers and registered applicants are demonstrating
a willingness to pay, and by assuming that new applicants are prepared to pay
the same real amount. Given these assumptions and assuming a shadow price of
K Sh 11 per US$1, the rate of return would be 50%. Labor has not been shadow
priced as KPTC mostly employs skilled staff, of which there is no surplus in
Kenya.
Risk
3.16      The project offers limited risk.  The principal risk is the possi-
bility of delayed physical implementation due to unforeseen circumstances.
In telecommunications projects, which comprise a relatively large number
of independent activities, delay in the completion of a few works does not
generally prevent the use of other newly created assets. Furthermore, costs
and benefits are often delayed in roughly the same degree, so the impact on
the rate of return may not be significant. A sensitivity analysis on the
financial rate of return (Annex 12) indicates that a combination of 10% higher
capital and operating costs and 10% lower revenues, would result in an internal
financial rate of return of not less than 22%.
Environmental and Health Aspects
3.17      No significant adverse environmental or health effects are expected
from the project. As the project will provide better telephone and telex
services, the growth in vehicular traffic congestion during business hours
in the larger urban areas is expected to be reduced, particularly in Nairobi,
accompanied by a reduction in the growth of atmospheric pollution. Further-
more, better telecommunications should result in better utilization of trans-
port for movements of food, medicine, and patients in emergency situations.



- 17 -
4. THE IM]'LEMENTING AGENCY
4.01      Created by the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation Act of
1977, effective December 31, 1977, KPTC, the proposed beneficiary and project
implementing agency is an autonomous government-owned public corporation
responsible for all domestic and international postal and telecommunications
services in Kenya. KPTC has the right to plan, acquire, construct and operate
all telecommunications facilities; to propose tariffs and other charges for
services and to introduce these tariffs after obtaining the approval of the
Minister of Power and Communications and the Minister of F'inance. The powers
currently entrusted to KPTC under the Act have so far enabled KPTC to function
satisfactorily.
Organization
4.02      KPTC is administered by a seven-member board of directors, each with
a tenure of three years, but who are eligible for reappointment. The chairman
of the board, and three other members who are required to have a knowledge of,
and experience in, communications matters or in commerce, industry, finance
or administration, are appointed by the Minister of Power and Communications.
The permanent secretaries of the Ministry of Power and Communications, and of
the Treasury, are ex-officio members. The managing director is appointed by
the Minister after consultation with the board of directors. KPTC's day-to-
day business is administered by the managing director, assisted by a deputy
managing director. An organization chart is set out in Annex 13. KPTC's
organization is similar to that existing in other telecommunications admin-
istrations. The deputy managing director, who is an experienced engineer,
assists the managing director in all operational matters.
4.03      The director of telecommunications services who reports to the
managing director has in the past been responsible for all operation and
maintenance and for planning, execution and development. During the imple-
mentation of this project, his work load will be very heavy; and KPTC has,
therefore, transfered the planning and development work to the deputy
managing director, leaving the operation and execution of works (including
stepping up rate of making connections) to the director of telecommunications
services. When the project is about to be completed, and the following
project is being planned, KPTC could then appoint a separate director for
planning and development. The deputy managing director would then concen-
trate on assisting the managing director in administering the vastly in-
creased assets created under the project. The Permanent Secretary of
the Ministry of Power and Communications recognized the need to reallocate
responsibilities for planning and development work and during negotiations,
confirmed that these changes have been implemented. The organizational
arrangements are satisfactory.



- 18 -
Staff
4.04      At the end of December 1977, KPTC's telecommunications staff total-
led about 4,450 of which about 4,000 were employed for telephone operations
and the balance used in telegraph and telex operations. KPTC operated about
143,000 telephones and the staff ratio works out to 27 per thousand telephones.
The staff ratio is considered reasonable, keeping in view that KPTC operates
(a) long distance facilities in remote areas using an extensive open wire
system; and (b) about 59 small capacity manual exchanges which require a
minimum level of staffing depending on the operating hours of each exchange,
independent of the number of connections working at each exchange.
4.05      KPTC's senior engineering staff have gained sufficient experience
in project management in the last two Bank-financed projects, are well quali-
fied, and are generally capable of managing the considerably expanded oper-
ations resulting from the project. KPTC continues to employ expatriate staff.
The number of these staff have, however, declined to 37 in 1977, as a result
of the policy of Kenyanization. KPTC plans to continue the present policy
and expects to fully Kenyanize the staff by mid 1981.
4.06      Most of the finance staff is new as most of the financial work
up to 1975 was done in Uganda under EAPTC. The lack of qualified financial
staff, the loss or unavailability of past documentation, and the deficiencies
in the accounting procedures (see para. 4.09) have impeded the proper func-
tioning of KPTC's financial department.
4.07      During the project period, KPTC expects to recruit for telephone
operations about 700 additional staff including about 100 engineers, and
300 line and switching maintenance technicians, operators, accountants,
and other support personnel. At the end of the project, KPTC would operate
about 199,000 telephones on about 119,000 direct lines. Though the staff
productivity would only improve from 27 to 24 per 1,000 telephones, the
quality of service would improve significantly, since a large number of ex-
tensions to direct lines would be replaced by direct lines, thereby relieving
system call traffic congestion. Annex 14 gives details of the number of
employees in each department from 1977 through 1983, the staff pay groups
as of December 31, 1977, and a summary of service conditions. The pay scales
are generally attractive and the requisite quality of staff can be recruited.
Turnover of staff is reported to be negligible.
Training
4.08      KPTC has a well-equipped central training school situated 16 km
from Nairobi, and a regional training shool in Nairobi. Intermediate- and
advanced-level telecommunications courses are given at the central school
which can simultaneously train about 400 students. As of May 1978, the
school also began offering a financial audit course. The regional training
school provides basic and vocational training for about 250 students. The
University of Nairobi provides graduate courses in telecommunications en-
gineering and KPTC recruits these graduates. During 1977, 352 students were
trained in the basic courses and about 1,000 were given refresher courses.
The training arrangements are adequate.



- 19 -
Accounting
4.09      In accordance with the KPTC Act, the board has to ensure that (a)
proper accounts and other records are kept in relation to the revenue and
expenditure of the corporation; and (b) a statement of accounts is prepared
in accordance with commercial standards within six months of the end of each
financial year and transmitted to the Controller and Auditor General. KPTC
however, has not been able to produce any final financial statements for audit
since the break up of EAPTC in 1975 (see para. 5.01). The Bank should, there-
fore, accept unaudited, provisional financial statements within six months of
the end of the fiscal year, until the final split up of EAPTC is settled. The
usual requirement of KPTC submitting audited financial statements within six
months of the end of the fiscal year should be applied thereafter. The lack
of qualified financial staff, the loss or unavailability of past documentation,
and the deficiencies in the accounting procedures have been commented upon in
several consultants' reports on EAPTC 1/ and recommendations were made to
improve the situation.  However, KPTC has not yet implemented the recommenda-
tions.  During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that KPTC will, not
later than December 31, 1979, retain a financial adviser whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to review
existing accounting procedures and assist in the implementation of new pro-
cedures when necessary. These new procedures will be reflected in financial
statements for the year ending December 31, 1981.  Special attention will be
paid to the coordination between the financial department and other depart-
ments (technical, planning, stores, computer, etc.); the separation of
accounts between postal and telecommunications operations; and the account-
ing for fixed assets, work in progress, stores and long-te!rm debt. To
enable the adviser to carry out his tasks efficiently, he will report
directly to KPTC's managing director or his deputy.
Billing and Collection
4.10      Billing is computerized and subscribers are billed monthly.  The
bills are issued to the subscribers about three weeks after the closing date
of the billing period. Subscribers can pay in any post office and are ex-
pected to do so within two weeks. I]f not paid, the amount is added to the
bill of the subsequent month together with a reminder to pay. If the total of
the second bill is not paid within two weeks, the subscriber is disconnected.
The subscriber can, however, be reconnected as long as his number is kept
vacant (normally three to four months), after the subscriber has paid all
accumulated bills and a reconnection fee of K Sh 60. Telephone accounts
receivable at December 31, 1977, amounted to K Sh 98 million, of which K Sh 23
million were for service to Government. This represents about three months of
telephone billing, which is not excessive. A breakdown of accounts receivable
according to age of account is given in Annex 15. About K Sh 15 million in
old bills (1967-77) could be written off as uncollectable.
Auditing
4.11      According to the Act, the external audit of KPTC should be carried
out by the Controller and Audit Department of the Kenya Government which
1/   e.g., Coopers and Lybrand, dated January 1976 and Thorne, Riddell
associates Ltds., dated July 1976.



- 20 -
has a unit of about six people permanently assigned to checking KPTC's
accounts. The audit report together with an operations report is submitted
to the Minister of Power and Communications who then presents it to Parliament
within nine months after the end of each financial year. No audit report
for KPTC has yet been prepared (see para. 4.09). In 1976, an internal audit
department was formed, which now consists of 16 persons, three with degrees
in accounting. As from May 1978, KPTC's training school is offering an audit
course, which is expected to provide KPTC with the necessary audit staff in
the .uture. KPTC's internal audit department is mainly checking on cash,
purchases, stores and billing. In 1978, a special unit for supplies was
created.  When KPTC's accounting system begins to function efficiently (see
para. 4.09) the audit arrangements will be satisfactory.
Insurance
4.12      KPTC has insurance coverage for buildings, internal plant and stores
against fire and special perils. Insurance protection is also maintained for
company vehicles, for cash in transit, personal liability and revenue loss.
These insurance arrangements are satisfactory.
5. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Settlement of EAPTC's Assets and Liabilities
5.01      The final division of EAPTC's assets and liabilities among the
former member countries, after the break up of EAC in 1975, is still pending.
A mediator appointed to advise on the division is expected to report shortly,
but the acceptance of his recommendations and the final settlement may take
considerable time.  Government has authorized KPTC to operate EAPTC's assets
and liabilities. However, these EAPTC's assets and liabilities have not, and
should not, be declared property of KPTC (under the Kenya Posts and Telecom-
munications Corporation Act of 1977, Section 116 (4)), until the mediation
effort is concluded. This situation implies that:
-    the financial statements for 1976-78, as presented by
KPTC, are provisional and unaudited (see para. 4.09)
and may be adjusted according to a future final
settlement of EAPTC's assets and liabilities;
-    the financial projections for 1979-83 are based on the
provisional, unaudited statements for 1976-78, and
would have to be adjusted accordingly; and
-    the financial convenants should be drafted to become
operative on a specific date subsequent to completion
of the mediation.
However, during negotiations an understanding was reached on how to apply
the principles underlying these covenants on provisional, unaudited finan-
cial data, until such time as the mediation effort has been concluded and
final financial statements are available.



- 21 -
Postal Operations
5.02      In addition to telecommunications, KPTC operates the postal service.
In FY76-77, postal revenues covered operating expenditures according to KPTC's
financial statements (see Annex 16). In FY78 the postal operations are
expected to incur a minor loss. The Government's policy is that each service
should be self-supporting. The Government expects the postal branch of KPTC
to curtail all unnecessary expenditures and if this is insufficient to achieve
self-sufficiency, the Government is prepared to increase the postal tariffs.
Some telecommunications funds will, however, over the project period be used
to finance postal capital works (see para. 3.07). During negotiations,
assurances have been obtained, that telecommunications revenues will not be
used for purposes other than teleconmunications development and operations,
unless such revenues are in excess of telecommunications requirements.
5.03      The split up of KPTC's financial statements (Annex 16) has been
carried out according to EAPTC's procedures. The rapid expansion of tele-
communications, as compared with postal services, however, has rendered
these procedures obsolete, and they should be updated to properly reflect
KPTC's current situation.  A separalion of telecommunications and postal
accounts (see para. 4.09) would provide KPTC with better information for
tariff setting decisions and would also permit a better control of use of
funds by each service.
Kenya External Telecommunications Company, Ltd.
5.04      All shares of the EA EXTELCOM were in 1975 held by EAPTC, and
Kenya's estimated part of these shares (book value K Sh 15.7 million) is now
held by KPTC. KENEXTEL was formed :Ln June 1978 as an indetpendent government
company with the principal objective of managing Kenya's external telecommuni-
cations. However, by law KPTC has the right to operate all telecommunications
services. The Kenyan portion of the Pan African Telecommunications Network
is being financed by KPTC, and is expected to be operated by KPTC, when ready.
The apparent duplication of responsibilities for international services and
the relationship between KPTC and KENEXTEL should be clarified. During nego-
tiations, assurances have been obtained from Government that a review will
be undertaken to: (a) clearly define the respective responsibilities of
KPTC and KENEXTEL in providing external telecommunications services, and the
operation and maintenance of the equipment utilized in providing them; and
(b) work out an agreement between K]?TC and KENEXTEL which should govern the
allocation of revenues in respect of such services. Recommendations resulting
from this review would be furnished to the Bank for its study and comment by
June 30, 1980.
KPTC's Past Financial Performance
5.05      Provisional income statements for FY76-78, as presented by KPTC are
given in Annex 16. A summary of its telecommunications operations is given
below in K Sh million:



- 22 -
Actual   Provisional   Budget
Years ending Dec. 31:                     1976        1977        1978
Operating revenues                      389.4       468.0        561.6
Operating expenditures /L               280.6       333.3        387.1
Operating income                        108.8       134.7        174.5
Operating ratio (%) /1                   72          71           69
Rate of return (%) /                     40          37           38
/1   Assets valued at historic costs.
Operating expenditures include payments to KENEXTEL for international ser-
vices. These payments constituted about 28% of total operating expendi-
tures. On revalued assets (see para. 5.08), the rate of return in FY76-78
would be about 24%, which is very satisfactory.
Present Financial Position
5.06      Provisional balance sheets for FY76-78 are presented by KPTC, are
given in Annex 16. A summary of FY78, telecommunications operations, is
given below:
FY78
K Sh Millions    %
Assets
Net plant in service                         526.3          70
Plant under construction                     123.0         16
Investments                                   18.7          3
Net current assets /1                         80.7         11
Total Assets                              748.7        100
Liabilities
Equity                                       512.4         68
Long-term debt /2                            236.3          32
Total Liabilities                         748.7        100
Current ratio (times)                        1.3           -
Debt/equity ratio (%)                       33             -
/1   Including current portion on long-term debt.
/2   Excluding current portion.



- 23 -
Investments consist of EA EXTELCOM shares (K Sh 15.7 million) and of govern-
mental issues (K Sh 3.0 million). Given the inadequate accounting records,
plant under construction may be mixed up with plant in service and net
current assets (stores). A better control of work in progress should be
made when proper accounting routines are introduced (see para. 4.09).
5.07      The long-term debt has not been adjusted for exc:hange differences
since 1975, awaiting recommendations on the division of EAPTC's assets and
liabilities to be made by the mediator (see para. 5.01). The division of
assets and liabilities presents special problems for the Bank loans to EAPTC,
as they were paid out in a variety of currencies. The total exchange loss on
KPTC's foreign debt is estimated roughly at K Sh 45.0 million (US$6.0 million).
Including this exchange loss in long-term debt and reducing equity by the same
amount, would give a debt equity ratio of 38%, which is still satisfactory.
Adjustments for this exchange loss has been made in the financial projections.
Valuation of Assets
5.08      KPTC's records on fixed assets are incomplete and exact historic cost
and year of acquisition for each item cannot be established. The accounting
for assets taken out of service, therefore, does not adjust the cost for the
original year of purchase, but rathier reduces the total cost of additions in
the year of retirement. Furthermore, KPCT continues to depreciate fully
depreciated assets still in use, while some other fixed assets have not been
sufficiently depreciated. Depreciation also includes amounts set aside to
cover increased replacement cost. These deficiencies should be corrected when
proper accounting procedures are introduced (see paragraph 4.09).
5.09      KPTC has made no effort to establish the effect of inflation on the
value of its fixed assets. A study of EAPTC by Coopers and Lybrand, dated
January 1976, concludes that the book value of EAPTC's gross fixed assets
needs to be increased about 35% to reflect replacement cost at December 1974.
For lack of better information, the same percentage has been used for the
financial projections in this report and, as from 1975 onwards, KPTC's fixed
assets have been revalued 7% per annum according to the estimated average
increase in cost of telecommunications plant and equipment. (Annex 21).
5.10      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that KPTC will under-
take and complete a preliminary inventory, and propose to the Bank a method of
revaluation of its fixed assets as of December 31, 1979; and that KPTC will
review and reestablish the value of these assets in connection with the finan-
cial statements for 1979 according to methods agreed on with the Bank. Fur-
thermore, KPTC will review the valuie of its fixed assets annually thereafter,
and if foreign prices and/or local inflation have changed the value of the
fixed assets in operation by more than 10% since the previous revaluation,
KPTC will revalue these assets in accordance with methods agreed on with
the Bank for the purpose of calculating the rate of return. When the final
settlement of EAPTC's assets and liabilities (see para. 5.01) is agreed on
by the former EAC member countries, the value of KPTC's fixed assets will be
adjusted to fully reflect such settlement. Any revaluation adjustment would
be made accordingly.



- 24 -
Financing Plan
5.11      KPTC's projected funds flow statement for 1979-83 is presented in
Annex 19. A summary of the requirements for KPTC telecommunications operations
and the sources from which they would be met is given below:
Years ending December 31:                                1979-83
K Sh        US$      %
--(millions)--
Requirements
Project                                   508.3       63.5      37
Other capital works                       346.2       43.3      25
Increase in working capital /1            253.8       31.7      18
Investments and deposits                  267.2       33.4     20
Total Requirements                1,375.5      171.9    100
Sources:
Internal cash generation                1,403.2      175.4    102
Less:  debt service                       251.9       31.5      18
Net internal cash generations           1,151.3      143.9      84
Borrowings:
IBRD 914-EA                           15.4       1.9       1
Proposed Bank loan                   160.0      20.0      12
Supplier's credit                    48.8        6.1       3
Total Sources                           1,375.5      171.9    100
/1   Excludes current portion of long-term debt.
Of the total requirements during the project period, KPTC's internal cash
generation is expected to contribute about 84%, which is high. The Bank
Loan 914-EA will contribute 1%; proposed Bank loan, 12%; and a supplier's
credit, 3%. Investments and deposits with Kenyan Government (see Annex 21)
are projected to increase US$33.4 million in the 1979-83 period. Those funds
have to be reserved, however, for the possibility that there may be compensa-
tions payable to Uganda and Tanzania, when the division of EAPTC's assets and
liabilities is settled (see para. 5.01).



- 25 -
5.12      The relending terms for the proposed Loan have been assumed to be
15 years, including a four-year grace period, with 10% interest. 1/ During
negotiations, these relending terms were confirmed. The conclusion of a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government
and KPTC has been agreed upon as a condition of effectiveness for the loan.
Projected Financial Performance
5.13      Projections of KPTC's (telecommunications operal:ions) financial
statements for 1979-83 are given in Annexes 17 to 20. Noltes and assumptions
on the projections are given in Annex 21. A summary is given below:
Years ending December 31:                1979   1980    1981   1982   1983
Operating income (K Sh million)         149.2  145.2   154.4  190.7  237.2
Operating ratio (%)                      76      79      81      80     79
Rate of return:
on book values (%)                 31      28       26     25      28
on revalued assets (%)             19      16       14     14      14
Debt/equity ratio (%)                    26      25      23      20      17
Current ratio (times)                     2.1    2.2      2.2    2.5    2.6
Debt service coverage (times)             4.5    5.1      4.8    5.7    7.1
No tariff increase is forecast for the project period.  The increase in
operating income is due to higher traffic volume. The current procedures
of recording international revenues and expenditures gross produces a higher
operating ratio than would be the case if they were recorded net. This
explains KPTC's relatively high operating ratio.
5.14      At the end of 1983, KPTC is expected to have a czurrent ratio of
2.6, a debt/equity ratio of 17%, an operating ratio of 79% and a rate of
return on revalued assets in operation of 14%. The debt service ratio
is not expected to be less than 4.5 during any year of the project period.
These ratios are satisfactory.
5.15      To assure KPTC's financial viability, the rate of return requirement
of 10% for previous Bank loans to EAPTC should be repeate,d for the proposed
project. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that KPTC's
tariffs will be maintained at levels sufficient to achieve a rate of return
of at least 10% on revalued (para. 5.09) average net fixed telecommunications
assets in operation.
1/   According to information from IMF, based on CPI, the inflation in Kenya
was 19.2% in 1975; 13.5% in 1976 and 10.4% in 1977. Inflation for 1978
is projected to be 12.5% and is expected to moderate to about 10% as from
1979. The interest rate charged by the Government for similar type of
lending varies from 6% to 10%.



- 26 -
5.16      The debt limitation covenant for previous Bank loans to EAPTC
should be repeated in the proposed project. During negotiations, assurances
have been obtained from KPTC that no long-term debt will be incurred without
prior approval by the Bank, unless KPTC's consolidated internal cash genera-
tion in the preceding 12 months would cover any future year's maximum debt
service on all debt at least 1.5 times.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached that KPTC will:
(a) finish a study on the tariff structure before December 31,
1979 (para. 3.12);
(b) retain no later than December 31, 1979, a financial
adviser, whose qualifications, experience, and terms
of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to
review existing accounting routines and assist in
the implementation of new routines when necessary
(para. 4.09);
(c) not use telecommunications revenues for purposes other
than telecommunications development and operations
unless these revenues are in excess of such requirements
(para. 5.02);
(d) maintain KPTC's tariffs at levels sufficient to achieve
at least 10% rate of return on revalued average net fixed
assets in operation (paras. 5.10 and 5.15); and
(e) not incur long-term debt without prior approval by the
Bank, unless KPTC's internal cash generation in the pre-
ceeding 12 months would cover maximum future debt service
at least 1.5 times (para. 5.16).
6.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached that Government would
undertake a review to define the relationship between KPTC and KENEXTEL
(para. 5.04).
6.03      The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, between Government and KPTC has been agreed upon by Government as a
condition of effectiveness for the proposed loan (para. 5.12).
6.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$20 million equivalent for a period of 15 years, including four years'
grace period.



ANNEX 1
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
International Telephone Statistics
Gross National                                   Telephones - January 1, 1977
Product - 1976                    National                     Principal Cities           Rest of Country
1/             Per                         Av. Ann.                               Per-                     Per-
Population-             Capita-               Per      Growth      Auto-                   centage                  centage
Country                                 Per       Growth      Total    100        Rate       mati-   Total   Per    of          Total   Per      of
Mid-1976   Capita       Rate      Number   Popu   (Jan. 1967  zation  Number   100   NatIl   Number   100   Nat'l
(000,ooos)   US$      (1960-75)   (OOOe)  lation  Dec. 1976) 7T (000s)  Pop.                  7.    (000s)  PoP.       7.
AFRICA
Algeria                          16.2          990     1.7           266    1.5         6.6       80.5       232   NA       87         34   NA        13
Ethiopia                         28.7         100      1.9            73    0.3       10.2        88.3        58  13.3      79         15   0.1       21
Ghana                            10.1         580    (0.1)            66    0.7         6.3       79.3        53   3.7      80         13   0.2       20
Ivory Coast                       7.0         610      3.4            59    0.8        11.7       92.8        53   3.9      90          6   0.1       10
Kenya                            13.8         240      2.6           132    1.0_/       8.8       87.4.      105   8.0      80         27   0.2       20
Niger                             4.7          160    (1.1)            8    0.2        12.0        NA          6   NA       75           2   NA       25
Senegal                           5.1         390    (0.7)            39    0.9         4.3       92.8        35   2.9      90          4   0.1       10
Sudan                            15.9         290      0.4            48    0.3         1.2        3.5        46   2.8      96           2   0.1       4
Tanzania                         15.1         180      2.6            68    0.4        10.6       81.1        35   0.8      51         33   0.2       49
Uganda                           11.9         240      1.0            46    0.4         8.2       83.3        32   4.1      70         14   0.1       30
Zambia                            5.1         440      1.7            55    1.1         3.7       97.2        45   2.6      82         10   0.3       18
AMERICAS
Canada                           23.2       7,510      3.5        13,786   60.4         5.7       99.9    6,948  72.8       50      6,838  51.5       50
Colombia                         24.2          630     2.8         1,296     5.3       10.5       98.6       973   9.9      75        323   2.2       25
Costa Rica                        2.0       1,040      3.4           127    6.2        18.2       99.D       115  13.1      91         112   1.0       8
El Salvador                       4.1         490      1.8            54    1.3         6.1       96.7        46   4.4      85          8   0.3       15
Mexico                           62.0       1,090      3.0         3,309     5.2       13.5       97.3    2,818  11.7       85        491   1.2       15
Trinidad and Tobago               1.1       2,110      2.6            70    6.6         5.2       99.9        44  44.4      63         26   2.7       37
United States                   215.1       7,890      2.3      154,576    71.8         4.6       99.9   81,026  77.3       52    73,550  66.6        48
Venezuela                        12.4       2,570      2.6           742    5.9         9.2       99.4       592  10.9      80        150   2.1       20
AS IA
Bangladesh-/                     80.4         110    (0.4)            66    0.1         NA        81.7        44   1.7      67         22   0.3       33
Burma                            31.3         120      0.7            33    0.1        4.3        69.3        27   0.3      82          6    -        18
China Republic                   16.3       1,070      6.3         1,396     8.4       22.0       85.3     NA      NA       NA       NA      NA       NA
Korea Republic                   36.0         670      7.3         1,681    4.7        17.9       84.9.    1,290   7.4      77        391   2.1       23
India                           620.4         150      1.3        2,096    0.3         8.2        85.6    1,067   3.1       51      1,029   0.2      49
Indonesia                       135.2         240      3.4           314    0.2        6.7        67.8      215  .1.4       68         99   0.1       32
Iran                             34.3       1,930      8.2           782    2.3       13.9        91.5       714   6.1      91         68   0.3        9
Iraq                             11.5       1,390      3.6           320    2.8        15.5      95.8        223   1.9      70         97   NA        30
Japan                           112.8       4,910      7.9       48,431   42.6         11.7       99.0   32,177  48.4       66    16,254  34.4        34
Kalaysia2,                       12.7         860      3.9           330    2.7         9.1       96.8       221   NA       70        109   NA        30
Nepal -a                         12.9          120     0.2            11    0.1        18.6        NA      NA      NA       NA       NA      NA       NA
Philippines                      43.3         410      2.4           542    1.2        11.2       95.0       489   5.5      90         53   0.1       10
Singapore2,                       2.3       2,900      7.5           374   16.3        14.8      100.0       374  16.3    100         -       -       -
SriLanka-                        13.8          200     2.0            72    0.5         5.3       99.7        22   3.9      31         50   0.4       69
Syria                             7.7          780     2.2           177    2.3         7.5      90.0        143   5.2      81         34   0.4       19
Thailand                         43.0          380     4.5           334    0.8        14.5       96.7       285   4.6      85         49   0.1       15
EUROPE
France                           52.9       6,550      4.2       15,554   29.3          8.9       98.2    9,164  55.2       59      6,390  17.5       41
Germany, Fed. Republic           62.0       9,380      3.4        21,162   34.4         8.3      100.0    8,832  50.6       42    12,330  28.0        58
Sweden                            8.2       8,670      3.1        5,673   68.9          4.3      100.0    2,772  81.0       49      2,901  60.3       51
Switzerland                       6.4       8,880      2.2        4,016   63.8          5.4      100.0    1,871  83.7       47      2,145  52.8       53
United Kingdom                   56.1       4,020      2.2        22,012   39.4         6.8      100.0    8,649  48.9       39    13,363  35.0        61
USSR                            256.7       2,760      3.8        18,000     7.0        7.8       96.1    4,686  18.8       26    13,314   5.7        74
Yugoslavia                       21.5       1,680      5.6         1,431    6.6        12.2       98.0       625  18.5      44        806   4.4       56
OCEANIA
Australia                        13.7       6,100      3.0         5,501   39.5         6.3       96.9    4,219  46.9       77      1,282   26.0    23
Fiji                              0.6       1,150      3.5            31    5.3         9.8       89.6        15  17.4      48         16    3.2    52
New Zealand                       3.1       4,250      1.6         1,632   52.0         4.3       94.1    1,246  57.1       76        386   40.3    24
Papua New Guinea                  2.8         490      3.5            38    1.3        11.8       98.7        33  10.0      87          5    0.2    13
1/  Telephone statistics            :  World Telephones by AT&T (January 1, 1977).
Population and GNP statistics: World Development Report, The World Bank, August 1978.
2/  Estimates for these countries are derived from various reports in the World Bank, as no statistics are
available in AT&T's World Telephones.
3/ The current ratio of telephones to connections is abnormally high (see para. 1.04).
November 21, 1978



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Distribution of Business and Residential Lines
Method
1.       Different methods were used to estimate the numbers of business
and residential   Direct Exchange Lines (DELs)  in Nairobi and the rest of
the country:
(a) Nairobi
Using previous rough estimates of the proportion of business
and residential subscribers, the Nairobi area was split into
two sections, one mainly residential, the other mainly business.
Using statistical tables, it was estimated that 170 samples in
each group could identify the proportions to a 5% accuracy
and 95% confidence interval.
Each line was classified already as private, government, KPTC,
service lines, public call office and renter's coin box.
Each private subscriber in the sample was considered in turn.
If the name indicated a business an attempt was made to
classify it as 'agriculture','manufacturing and mining',
'public administration' or 'other'. Where this was not possible,
a telephone interview was used to find out what the line was
used for, and was marked as business if more than a third
of the usage was for business purposes.
(b) The Rest of the Country
Inquiries were made via the district head quarters to the
exchanges. They then gave estimates as to the proportions
of residential and business DELs.
Results
2.       The results are given in Table 1.  Business usage is very high
in Nairobi. About 65% of direct exchange lines are purely business lines,
and at least 85% of all lines have a substantial business usage. Outside
Nairobi, the proportion of purely business lines is over 75%.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
Table 1
Proportions of Residential and Business Lines
Nairobi         Rest
Category                          35,975 Lines 27,336 Lines   Average
Business:  Agriculture                 1.5          12.0           6.8
Manufacture                4.0           4.5           4:2
Public Admin.             11.0          33.0          22.0
Other                     48.0          27.0          37.0
Subtotal                  64.5          76.5          70.0
Residential                           34.0          22.0          28.5
RCBs and PCOs                          1.5           1.5           1.5
Total                    100.0         100.0         100.0



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Distribution of Revenues Generated by
Exchange Lines Provincewise
Method
A program was written for the computer used by KPTC to bill
customers, the output producing information on the number of exchange
lines in each of 28 ranges of revenue generation during August 1978 for
each province.
Results
Cum. % of Lines           20%  40%   60%   80%   90%   Average Revenue
Per Line Per
Cum. % of                                                  Month K Sh
Revenue Generated
Central                   1.7  5.1   11.8  27.8  45.0          450
Coast                     1.5  5.2   12.5  29.4  48.2          660
Eastern                   3.6  8.6   17.8  33.2  50.3          240
North Eastern             2.0  5.8   13.1  28.1  46.0          440
Nyanza                    1.5  4.8   13.5  31.0  50.0           720
Rift                     -2.1  6.4   15.1  30.6  46.6          490
Western                   2.8  6.5   12.6  25.5  40.6           300
Nairobi                   2.0  5.9   14.4  34.0  55.3          560
Weighted Average          2.0  6.0   14.0  33.3  53.9          490



31 -
ANNEX 4
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Basic Data as of December 31, 1977 and
as of December 31, 1983
Plant and facilities in service as of
end December                                               1977         1983
Local Service
a.  Number of local exchanges                                  230          238
b.  Total number of local automatic exchanges                   59           76
c.  Total installed capacity of automatic exchanges         74,774      129,780
d.  Total number of automatic exchange connections          52,622      105,895
e.  Total number of manual exchanges                           171          171
f.  Total capacity of manual exchanges                      12,849       14,713
g.  Total number of manual exchange connection               9,786       12,989
h.  Total capacity of local exchanges                       87,623      144,493
i.  Total number of connections                             62,408      118,884
J.  Total number of telephones                             143,000      199,000
k.  Percentage of automatic lines                            84.32        89.00
Long Distance Service
a.  Number of interurban exchanges                               2           13
b.  Total number of long distance circuits                   2,231        5,329
c.  Total terminations on interurban exchanges               2,399        7,682
d.  Public call offices                                        439          639
Telegraph and Telex Services
a.  Nuaber of telegraph offices                                 46           46
b.  Number of post offices with teliegraph facilities          152          152
c.  Number of telex exchanges                                    2            2
d.  Total capacity of telex exchanges                          920        2,000
e.  Total number of telex subscribers                          869        1,700



KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Exchange Capacity and Connected Lines
As of December 31, 1976 and 1977 and Forecast (1978-84)
Exchange Capacity                   Connected  Lines
End Year            Manual     Auto     Total           Manual     Auto      Total         %,Fill
1976                11,477    66,333   77,810            8,815    48,235    57,050           73
1977                12,849    74,774   87,623            9,786    52,622    62,408           71
---------------------------------------------  Forecast    -----------------------------------------
1978                14,743    83,574   98,317           10,989    55,895    66,884           68
1979                14,743    83,574   98,317           10,989    61,895    72,884           74
1980                14,743    95,424  110,167           11,989    69,895    81,884           74
1981                12,973   125,208  138,181           11,989    81,895    93,884          68
1982                12,523   125,208  137,731           12,989    92,985   105,884           73
1983                14,713   129,780  144,493           12,989   105,895   118,884          82
19o4                14,713   129,780  144,493           12,9069   116,o95   131,oo4          91



KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMYUNICATIONS (KPTC)
Ineatm.ent Proer
19 79-83
(,oo0)
1979                        1980                         1981                          1982                         1983                     1979 - 1983
Local   Foreign   Tocal    ForaizFoTtgn          otal      ocalrorei Tot               Lcl        rign      tal    Local   Foreigs   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
K Sh      USS       K Sh    lK S       U$        KSh    K SS        US$       K Sh    K Sh  US$            K Sh    K Sh  US$ K            Sh    K Sh        USS       K Sh
PROJECT
1. Local Services
Equipment (astonatic)                _        2,058  16,464    6,000       8,125  71.000    9,000       4,100  41,800    1,703       1,025   9,903       -          -        -      16,703     15,308 139,167
Cable-                               -          -        -      5,000      3,124  29,992    6,000       1,592  18,736    2,965         524   7,157    2,000         -      2,000   15,965       5,240  57,885
Telephonee                           _           _       -      1,600      1.000   9600    1,800    ;600   6,600    2,200              700   7,800    2,400         700   8,000    8,000        3,000  32,000
Subtota1                           _        2,058  16,464   12,600    12,249 110,592   16,800         6,292  67,136    6,868       2,249  24,860    4,400         700  10,000   40,668    23,548 229,052
2.  Long Distance (Tran.si.sion)
Microvaoe radio                      -          -        -        300      1,681  13,748    1,200       2,532  21,456       400        400   3,600        61         68      605    1,961       4,681  39,409
UHF maan routes                      -          -        -         10        400   3,210        80        700   5,680        40        187   1,536       -          143   1,144        130      1,430  11,570
UHF/VHF secondary routes                        -        -         20         82      676      298        252   2,314       130        200   1,730         20        57      476       468        591   5,196
Multiplex                                       -        -        350        600   5,150    1,100       1,657  14,356       400        200   2,000        65         51      473    1,915       2,508  21,979
RuraI carriers                       _          -        -          70       300   2,470       400        800   6,800       200        486   4,088         51        176   1,459       721      1,762  14,817
PCM equip-ent                        _          _        -         50        400   3,250       250        600   5,050       120        147   1,296        50        128   1,074        470      1,275  10 670
Subtotal                           _                            800      3,463  28,504    3,328       6,541  55,656    1,290       1,620  14,250       247        623   5,231    5,665    12,247 103,641
3.  Long Distance (Switching)
N8w exchanges                        -          -        -      1,500      1,343  12,244    2,000       1,200  11,600       906        283   3,170       -          -        -       4,406      2,826  27,014
Additionsa/                                                                                                                                              -          -        -         --
Subtotal                           _          _               1,500      1,343  12,244    2,000       1,200  11,600       906        283   3,170       -          -        -      4,406      2,826  27,014
4.  Boildings                            10,000       -    10,000   18,300         -    18,300    8,300         -      8,300       -         -        -         -          -       -      36,600        -    36,600
Acces-roads                             -         -        -         50U       -        50U       7UO       -        700       -         -        -         -          -       -       I,Z0U        -      1.200
Sobt.tal                        10,000        _    10,000   18,800         -    18,800    9,000         -     9,000       -          -        -        -          -        -      37,800        -    37,800
5. Rural Services             -                  -             -          10       300   2,410        672       800   7,072        800        700   6,400        50        200   1,650    1,532       2,000  17,532
6.  International Exchenge                  -         527   4,216        -         528   4,224        -         -        -         -         -        -         -          -       -         -        1,055   8,440
7. Con-ulctts                             -          -        -         -         431   3,4          -         445   3,560        -         146   1.168       _            46     368       -        1068   8,544
Base Costs                      10,000      2,585  30,680   33,710    18,314 180,222   31,800        5,278 154,024    9,864        4,998  49,848    4,697       1,569  17,249   90,071    42,744 432,023
8. Contingencien
Physical                             500        -        500    1,190        -     1,190        750       -        750      110        -        110       100       -         100    2,650        -     2,650
Price                              1.271        -     1,271    6,980       2,200  24,580    9,440       3,033  33.704    3,790       1,000  11,790    2,254         -      2,254   23,735       6,233  73,599
9.  Total Estolared C.et of Project -2                      32,451   41,880    20,514 20585   2   4                                                                         6997 18,311 186,478   13 764  5,998  61,748  7,051  1,6   19,603  1164567
NON-PROJECT
1.  Local and 10g Dieta-ce FPcilitics
O0g0110  works                    24,642      2,630  45,..,  so ;7:7         396  13.941   18,278       1,172  2-,654   21,590        2,646  41,310   22,915       Z,810  45,395   98,198       5,473 i03,982
2. Carried over Loan 914-A wor-k            182        190   1,702       182      1,520  12,342       -          190   1,520       -          -        -        -          -        -         364      1,900  15,564
3.  Teal eqcipment                          238        584   4,910       239        629   5,271    1,656       2,250  19,656       686      1,069   9,238       264      1,017   8,400    3,083        5,549  47,475
4. Future Project (1983-87)
Local service                        -          -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -          -       -       1,050      1,887  16,146    1,050       1,o87  16,146
10g distance (tr..s. issio.)         -         -        -         -         -                                                                             20        150   1,220         20        150   1,220
Long distancc (swi-chi.g)             -         -        -         -         -        -                                                                    20        200   1             20       200   1,620
Subtotal                                                                                                                                              1,090      2,237  18,986    1,090       2,237  18,986
5.  Buildinis
Ongoing  -crks                      6,000                                                     ,00 60   6,_ 60 00  60000    6_O-               6,000    6,000         -      6,000   30,000         -    20,000
Bar- Cost                      31,062      3,404  58,294   17,194       2,545  37,554   25,934       3,612  54,830   28,276       3,534  56,548   30,269        6,064  78,781  132,735      19,159 286,007
6. Co-tingei 
Physical                              300        -       300       300        -       300       300        -       300       300        -        300      300        -        300    1,500         -     1,500
PrIC a                                          513   7,899    3,534          164   4,846    7,503         548  11.887   10.745         566  15,273   13,914         61Z  18,810   39,491       2,403  58.715
7. Etimated Total Coot of
Non-Project                        35,157      3,917  66,493   21,028       2,709  42,700   33,737       4,160  67,017   39,321       4,100  72,121   44,483       6,676  97,891  173,726    21,562 346,222
8.  Estimated Total Cost of Project   11,771         2,585  32,451   41,880    20,514 205,992   41.990    18,311 188,478   13,764           5,998  61,748    7,051       1,569   19,603  116.456    48,977 508,272         o
9.  Esti.oted Tottl Cost of Program                  6502  9                     23   248,692  ,7571                                                                                        0 53,085  1098  69 51,534 .2 45  11 ,494  290 182 
Notes: a/ Included in Hitachi order against local exchanges.



- 34 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5 pages
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Physical Project
(1979-83)
A. Local Exchanges (Auto)
Naeof Exchange
Lines           In-Service Date
Nairobi Area
1.  Athi River                                  400 (T)          March 1982
2.  Central                                   3,000 (E)          March 1980
3.  Cianda                                      200 (N)          December 1981
4.  Eastleigh                                 4,000 (N)          December 1981
5.  Embakasi                                    500 (E)          March 1981
6.  Gigiri                                    2,000 (N)          September 1981
7.  Kabete                                    2,000 (N)          September 1981
8.  Kahawa                                    1,000 (T)          March 1982
9.  Karen                                     1,000 (T)          March 1982
10.  Kiambaa                                      300 (N)         December 1981
11.  Kiambu                                    1,000 (T)          December 1981
12.  Kikuyu                                    1,000 (T)          December 1981
13.  Limuru                                      300 (N)          December 1981
14.  Marige                                       200 (N)         December 1981
15.  Milima.ni                                 3,500 (N)          March 1980
16.  Parklands                                 4,000 (E)          March 1981
17.  Red Hill                                    400 (N)          December 1981
18.  Riararidge                                   300 (N)         December 1981
19.  Ruaraka                                   1,500 (N)          December 1981
20.  South                                     1,000 (E)          March 1980
21.  Tigoni                                      400 (N)          December 1981
22.  Uplands                                      200 (N)         December 1981
23.  Uthiru                                    1,000 (T)          December 1981
24.  Wangige                                      200 (N)         December 1981
25.  West                                      3,000 (N)          September 1981
Mombasa Area
26.  Changamwe                                 2,000 (N)          December 1981
27.  Central I                                 3,000 (E)          March 1980
28.  Likoni                                      800 (T)          June 1982
29.  Macupa                                    3,000 (N)          September 1981
30.  Malindi                                   1,000 (N)          September 1981
31.  Nyali                                     2,000 (N)          September 1981
32.  Tiwi                                         100 (N)         March 1982
Notes: N - New Exchange
E - Extension to Existing Exchange
T - Equipment Recovered and Reinstalled
Exchanges underlined are in the Nairobi and Mombasa metropolitan areas.



- 35 -
ANNEX '7
Page 2 of 5 pages
Name of Exchange                            Lines           In-Service Date
Nyeri Area
33.  Embu                                      1,000 (N)          September 1981
34.  Karatina                                    600 (N)          March 1980
35.  Meru                                      1,000 (N)          December 1981
36.  Nyeri                                       800 (E)          September 1981
Nakuru Area
37.  Bahati                                      200 (N)          December 1981
38.  Eldoret                                   1,000 (E)          March 1980
39.  Gilgil                                      500 (T)          March 1982
40.  Kitale                                    1,000 (N)          March 1982
41.  Lanet                                       400 (T)          March 1982
42.  Nakuru II                                 3,000 (N)          September 1981
43.  Naiwasha                                     700 (N)         December 1981
44. Nyahururu                                     600 (N)         March 1982
Kisumu Area
45.  Kakamega                                  1,000 (N)          December 1981
46.  Kericho                                   1,000 (N)          March 1982
47.  Kisii                                     1,000 (N)          March 1982
48.  Kisumu II                                 1,400 (E)          September 1981
Total                                    59,500
Local Exchanges (Manual)
Name of Exchange                            Lines           In-Service Date
Nairobi Area
1.  Dandora                                     100 (E)         March 1982
2.  Garissa                                     160 (E)          September 1982
3.  Gatundu                                      30 (E)          September 1982
4.  Githunguri                                  160 (E)          September 1982
5.  Kitui                                        80 (E)          September 1982
6.  Muranga                                     260 (E)         March 1982
7.  Ruiru                                       260 (E)          September 1982
Mombasa Area
8.  Lamu                                        180 (E)         March 1982
Nyeri Area
9.  Mukurweini                                  200 (E)          September 1982
10.  Othaya                                      290 (E)          June 1982



- 36 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5 pages
Name of Exchange                          Lines           In-Service Date
Nakuru Area
11.  Molo                                      260 (E)         September 1982
12.  Njoro                                     360 (E)         June 1982
Kisumu Area
13.  Bungoma                                    90 (E)         September 1982
14.  Homabay                                   160 (E)         September 1982
Total                                   2,590
B. Long Distance Exchanges
Name of Exchange                     Terminations         In-Service Date
1.  Bungoma                                     72 (N)        September 1981
2.  Eldoret                                   136 (N)         March 1980
3.  Embu                                      160 (N)         September 1981
4.  Kakamega                                  160 (N)         December 1981
5.  Kiambu                                    127 (N)         December 1981
6.  Kericho                                   200 (N)         March 1982
7.  Kisii                                     160 (N)         March 1982
8.  Kisumu                                    550 (N)         September 1981
9.  Kitale                                    160 (N)         March 1982
10.  Machakos                                   176 (N)         September 1981
11.  Malindi                                   100 (N)         September 1981
12.  Muranga                                    83 (N)         March 1982
13.  Meru                                      200 (N)         December 1981
14.  Mombasa                                   600 (E)         March 1980
15.  Nairobi                                 1,000 (E)         March 1980
16.  Naivasha                                    60 (N)        December 1981
17.  Nakuru                                    880 (N)         September 1981
18.  Nanyuki                                     16 (N)        September 1981
19.  Nyahururu                                   74 (N)        September 1981
20.  Nyeri                                     256 (N)         March 1982
21.  Nyeri                                     125 (E)         March 1980
22.  Thika                                       26 (N)        September 1981
23.  Voi                                         72 (N)        December 1981
Total                                   5,393
C. Long Distance Transmission
1.  Microwave Radio                         Capacity          In-Service Date
a. Nyeri - Meru - Marsabit -
Moyala                                960             September 1981
b.  Nakuru - Eldoret/Kitale             960/300           September 1981
c.  Kisumu - Kakamega - Bungoma           960             September 1981
d.  Loldiani - Kericho                    960             March 1982
e.  Nakuru - Nyahururu                    960             September 1981
f.  Nairobi - Mombasa                     960             September 1981
g.  Nairobi - Nakuru                      960             September 1981
h.  Nairobi - Machakos                    960             March 1982



- 37 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5 pages
2.  UHF. Radio                               Capacity          In-Service Date
a.  Malindi - Lamu                         120            March 1982
b.  Muranga - Nairobi                      300            March 1982
c.  Homabay - Gemba                        120            June 1982
3.  Multiplex Equipment                      Channels          In-Service Date
a.  Nyeri - Nanyuki                         72            September 1981
b.  Nyeri - Moyale                          12             September 1981
c.  Nyeri - Marsabit                        12            September 1981
d.  Nairobi - Nanyuki                       36            September 1981
e.  Nairobi - Embu                          36            September 1981
f.  Nairobi - Meru                          36            September 1981
g.  Nairobi - Addis Ababa (Ethiopia)        36            September 1981
h.  Nairobi - Mombasa                      204             September 1981
i.  Nairobi - Nakuru                       432            September 1981
J.  Nairobi - Machakos                     168            March 1982
k.  Nairobi - Juba (Sudan)                  36            March 1982
1.  Nanyuki - Meru                          24            September 1981
m.  Eldoret - Kericho                       60            March 1982
n.  Eldoret - Nakuru                       132            September 1981
o.  Eldoret - Kitale                       156            September 1981
p.  Kisumu - Kakamega                      456             September 1981
q.  Kisumu - Bungoma                        60            September 1981
r.  Nakuru - Nyahururu                     156            September 1981
s. Malindi - Lamu                           72            March 1982
t. Malindi - Garesin                        12            March 1982
u.  Murauga - Sabuk                         84            March 1982
v.  Homabay - Gemba                        216            June 1982
Total                               2,508
4.  Rural Carrier Systems
a.  12 Channel systems (total)             300            June 80 - June 82
b.  10 Channel stackable (total)           250            June 80 - June 82
c.  Expansion existing                      40            June 1980
Total                                 590
5.  UHF/VHF Radio Systems
a.  UHF (6 or 12 chs.) (total)             144            June 80 - June 82
b.  VHF (mono channel) (total)              46            June 80 - June 82
Total                                 190
6.  PCM Systems
a.  30/36 Channel units (total)          1,380            June 80 - June 82



- 38 -
ANNEX 7.
Page 5 of 5 pages
D. Cables
Local distribution                                         June 80 - June 82
E.  Telephones (nos)                        40,000             June 80 - June 83
F.  Rural Services                                             June 80 - June 82
G.  International Exchange                                     March 1980
H.  Buildings                                                  Completion Date
1.  Athi River                                                 March 1981
2.  Cianda                                                     January.1981
3.  Eastleigh                                                  January 1981
4.  Gigiri                                                     September 1980
5.  Kabete                                                     September 1980
6.  Kahawa                                                     March 1981
7.  Kiambaa                                                    January 1981
8.  Marige                                                     January 1981
9.  Red Hill                                                   January 1981
10.  Riararidge                                                 Janaury 1981
11.  Ruaraka                                                    January 1981
12.  Tigoni                                                     January 1981
13.  Uplands                                                    January 1981
14.  Wangige                                                    January 1981
15.  Changamwe                                                  January 1981
14.  Makupa                                                     September 1980
15.  Nyali                                                      September 1980
16.  Tiwi                                                       March 1981
17.  Karatina                                                   March 1979
18.  Bahati                                                     January 1981
19.  Eldoret                                                    March 1979
20.  Gilgil                                                     March 1981
21.  Kitale                                                     March 1981
22.  Lanet                                                      March 1981
23.  Niawasha                                                   January 1981
24.  Nyahururu                                                  March 1981
25.  Kakamega                                                   January 1981
26.  Kisii                                                      March 1981



KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Sdcedule of Construction
1979                                1980                                1981                                1982                                1983
O.iarters                 list     2nd      3rd      4th      lst      2nd      3rd      4th      lst      2nd      3nd      4th      Ist      2nd      3rd      4th       1st     2nd      3rd      4th
1 Local Exchangesf
1. Local Eachenges
Bidding and Evaluation
Contract
Deliwry and Comnissioning                                                                                                                                        _
Z Long Distance Exchanget
Bidding and Evaluation
Contract
Delivery and Comnmirdoning                                                                                        _
3. Microwave/UHF Radio
Bidding and Evaluation
Contract
Delivery and Conmnissioning                                                                                                 _
4. Multipleu Equipment
Bidding and Evaluation
Contract
Deliverv and Commnissioning                                                    -                 -        -        -
5. Fural Carrier Equipnent
Bidding and Evaluation
Contract
Deliverv and Commissioning                                                                       --
6. UHF/VHF Radio Systems_
Bidding and Evaluation
Contract
Delivery and Commiasioning
7. PCM Systems
Bidding an Evaluation
Contract
Deiivery and Commuissloning
a Rural Services
Bidding and Evaluation
Contract
Divery and Evaluation                                                                            -        -        -        -        -
9. Cables
Bidding arnd Evaluation
Contract
Deivery and Installation                                                                -                 -        -                 -        -        -
10. Telephones
Bididing and Evaluation 
Contract
Delivery and Installation                                                      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -                             . -     I  -
World B.nk   19403



- 40 -
ANNEX 9
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Schedule of Disbursements
It is assumed that the Bank loan would be approved by Bank in
March/April 1979.
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                              at End of Semester
and Semester                                  (US$ thousands)
1980
December 31, 1979                                     -
June 30, 1980                                       1,930
1981
December 31, 1980                                   7,460
June 30, 1981                                      12,560
1982
December 31, 1981                                  15,420
June 30, 1982                                      17,740
1983
December 31, 1982                                  19,000
June 30, 1983                                      20,000



- 41 -
ANNEX 10
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Performance Indicators
1.        A set of indicators which would assist in monitoring KPTC's perform-
ance during the project period has been established. KPTC will be asked to
report on the actual as well as projected/budgetted achievements related to the
performance indicators.
Performance Indicators
Year ending December 31:               1979      1980      1981     1982      1983
a)  Exchange equipment (lines)        98,317  110,167  138,181  144,493  144,493
b)  Telephone connections made         6,000    9,000   12,000   12,000   13,000
c)  Employees (nos)                    5,056    5,223    5,378    5,533    5,666
d)  Gross revenue (K Sh million)       615.6    678.9    802.5    953.3  1,126.0
e)  Rate of return book value              31       28        26        25       28
revalued assets           19        16        14        14       14
f)  Operating ratio (%)                    76       79        81        80       79
g)  Debt service coverage (times)         4.5      5.1       4.8       5.7      7.1
h)  Current ratio                         2.1      2.2       2.2       2.5      2.6
i)  Debt/equity ratio                      26       25        23        20       17



- 42 -
ANNEX I1
Page 1 of 2 pages
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPOPATION (KPTC)
Summary of Tariffs
1.  Telephone (Local)                                                K Sh
(a)  Rental (radial distance less than 5.2 km)                 120.00 per quarter
additional 0.4 km                                  30.00
(b)  Call charges (untimed) each pulse                            0.65
(c)  Installation (radial distance less than 5.2 km)            300.0.0
additional 0.4 km                                 270.00
2. Telephone (Long Distance)
(a) Operator Controlled Calls
Three Minutes l/
Radial Distance                                      Minimum Charge -
30 -  60 km                                               3.90
60 - 150 km                                               7.80
150 - 230 km                                              11.70
230 - 350 km                                              15.60
350 - 510 km                                              19.50
510 - 700 km                                              23.40
over 700 km                                               27.30
1/ Full rate. Reduced rate is 1/2 of full rate.
(b) Subscribers Trunk Dialing
Radial Distance                                     Period per Pulse_t
30 -  60 km                                            30 seconds
60 - 150 km                                            15    "
150 - 230 km                                            10    "
230 - 350 km                                             7.5  "
350 - 510 km                                             6
510 - 700 km                                             5
over 700 km,                                             4.28 "
2/ Full rate. Reduced rate is twice the period.



- 43 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2 pages
3.  Telex                                                       K Sh
(a)  Rental                                           2,000 per quarter
(b)  Call Charges
1.  Operated Controlled Calls                    Three Minute
Radial Distance                                 Minimum Charge
0 -  60 km                                          1.60
60 - 230 km                                          4.80
230 - 510 km                                          7.20
over 510 km                                           9.60
2.  Metered Call (0.80 per unit)                Time Per Unit
Radial Distance
Local                                             90 seconds
60 - 230 km                                     30    "
230 - 510 km                                      20
over 510 km                                       15    "
(c) Connection Charge
Radial distance less than 5.2 km                    1,500.00
Additional 0.4 km                                     350.00



- 44 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2 pages
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Return on Investment
1.        KPTC's 1979-83 program, of which the project is an integral part,
also includes ongoing and other works. The close relationship between
project and non-project parts make any attempted separation very arbitrary
as regards to incremental costs and revenues.  The rate of return calculated
in the following, therefore, refers to the whole of KPTC's 1979-83 investment
program.
2.        For the rate of return calculations the nominal value of all
incremental costs and revenues have been deflated by an accumulative 10% per
annum as from 1979 to reflect constant values at 1979 price levels (see
footnote to para. 5.12).
3.        The benefit period extends from 1979 to 2003, when on average the
equipment provided under the program is expected to have substantially com-
pleted its useful life.
4.        As from 1985, operating costs and revenues related to the program
are assumed to remain constant in real terms. Incremental revenues are based
on expected additional telephone and telex subscribers and traffic brought
about by the program. Operating costs are based on additional assets and
traffic generated under the program, excluding depreciation and interest.
Payments to KENEXTEL for international services, however, are included
as operating expenditures. Part of these payments can be regarded as a
contribution to Government (see para. 3.07), but no values are currently
available.
5.        No residual values of fixed assets have been taken into account
as the discounted real value of these would be minimal in 1979.
6.        A summary of the cost and benefit streams at 1979 price level is
given below in K Sh millions:



- 45 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2 pages
Capital         Operating          Net
Year     Deflator   Expenditures   Costs   Revenues   Benefits
1979       1.00          98.9         26.9       52.8       7T.z)
1980         .91        226.3         55.0      104.1    (177.2)
1981        .83         212.1        108.1      196.0    (124.2)
1982         .75        100.3        148.7      288.8       39.8
1983         .68         79.9        187.6      382.5      115.0
1984-03       .62            -        232.6      486.3      253.7
The net benefit stream above results in a financial rate of retue:n of 35%.
7.        A sensitivity analysis wals performed with the following results:
10% increase in capital expenditures        31.4%
10% increase in operating costs             31.1%
10% decrease in revenues                    27.5%
Combination of all above                    21.8%
8.        Existing subscribers and currently registered waiters are prepared
to pay at least existing prices in real terms. An estimate of consumer surplus
can be made by assuming that all new subscribers connected under the program
are on average also prepared to pay existing real prices. Making this
assumption and shadow pricing the IJS$ at 11.0 K Sh gives the following cost
and benefit streams in K Sh millions:
Capital         Operating           Net
Year     Expenditures   Costs   Revenues   Benefits
1979         118.4         26.9       52.8     (92.5)
1980         289.5         55.0      114.4    (230.1)
.1981         268.3        108.1      236.2    (140.2)
1982         123.2        148.7     385.0      1:L3.1
1983          96.4        187.6     562.5      278.5
1984-03          -         232.6      784.3     551.7
The net benefit stream above gives an estimated economic rate of return on the
program of 49.9%.
9.        Labor has not been shadow-priced in above calculations, as most of
KPTC's staff are qualified. RPTC's payments to KENEXTEL for inter-
national services are included in operating costs, as information is lacking
on how much of these payments are deposited with the Government.



46
ANNEX 13
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Organizational Chart
Managing Wr7-j~ ~~~~~Plnnngan
Chief
__ I.
GrnthEmationatl
DivisionalChe
Teleowm MMnawer              Long/Short-Term
( DMson)                           i
iC,h1 ,.   I  ,   I"W     an -    19
Controller  1   |  Nianagur    ]  L W       |~rojec EnAfrcitet ||ngnin   
r~~~~~~~~~~~oo Tra inspor
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~he ChiodCunmer erviesi
Seric Imrveet
DiviYond ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Wol Bank -f90



- 47 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2 pages
K13NYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMW1 NICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Staff Details
Number of Staff
1.        The breakdown of staff employed at the end of December 1977,
and the proposed staff distribution year wise through December 31, 1983,
is set out below:
Staff Number Year Wise
iCategory            1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1.983
a)  Top Management          35     47      54      58     61      64     67
b)  Engineering           1810   1905   1970   2040   2114   2190   2269
c)  Operations            1535   1801   1841   1888   1925   1968   1995
d)  Finance, Accounting  587    610    629    648    669    686    703
and Supplies
e)  Personnel &            208    214    219    226    234    238    242
Training
f)  Building               237    266    268    286    296    308    311
g)  Managing Director's   55       63      75      77     79      79     79
Office
Total             4,467  4,906  5,056  5,223  5,378  5,533  5,666
Pay Scales
2.        The number of staff as of December 31, 1977, in each pay range
is as follows:
Annual Salary () No. of Staff % of all Staff
a)  Scale 6 and above        2844 - 7125             35               1
b)  Scale 7                  2094 - 2844            115               3
c)  Scale 8                  1458 - 2208            325               7
d)  Scale 9                  1086 - 1662            429              10
e)  Scale 10                  504 - 1260           1677              37
f)  Scale 11                  318 -  855           1886              42
Total                                         4467              100



- 48 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2 pages
Included in the foregoing are 42 expatriates (5 of whom are in permanent
posts). Contracts for 22, 6 and 9 are due to expire by end of 1978, 1979
and 1980 respectively. KPTC is considering terminating all contracts by
the end of 1980.
Leave
3.        Annual leave with full pay    Category (1) - top management
36 days
Category (2) - middle managers and
skilled staff
26-30 days
Category (3) - semi-skilled and
unskilled staff
21 days
Casual leave                   None
Medical                         Categories (1) and (2) - Six months
on full pay and six
months on half-pay in
a period of three years
Category (3) - Three months on full
pay and three months
on half-pay in a period
of three years
Pension
4.        The compulsory age for retirement is 55 years.  Staff are entitled
to pension benefits after completing 10 years of service. Rate of pension
is XY   per annum where X = months of service, and
600                   Y = salary immediately prior to retirement
Promotions
5.        Promotions are based on qualifications, ability and seniority in
service of the employees eligible for such posts.



- 49 -
ANNEX 15
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Breakdown of Accounts Receivable
(As at December 31, 1977)
Outstanding
Private Subscribers                          K Sh 000
Billed              1967                          23.2
1968                         26.6
1969                         86.8
1970                        119.7
1971                        241.0
1972                        397.9
1973                        775.4
1974                      1,223.5
1975                      2,422.2
1976                      4,541.2
1/1-9/30/77                   5,759.0
10/1-12/31/77                 58,967.5
Others, net                                     566.9
Total Private                                75,150.9
Government Subscribers
Billed          9/1-12/31/77                 18,309.6
Others                                        4,753.7
Total Government                             23,063.3
Total Outstanding                            98,214.2



- 50 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 4 pages
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Financial Statements 1976-78
1.        The financial statements in this annex are presented as given by
KPTC. The division of EAPTC's assets and liabilities as per December 31,
1975, is mainly based on the Coopers and Lybrand's report. These statements
should be considered provisional, however, and adjustments can be expected
when final settlement is made (see para. 5.01).
2.        The division of KPTC's financial statements between postal and
telecommunications operations has been made as follows:
(a) Revenues for postal and telecommunications operations are
booked separately and the book figures for each service
has been used;
(b) Operating expenses specifically related to a certain service
(e.g., conveyance of mail, international services etc.) have
been charged to that service;
(c) Other operating expenses have been divided in the proportion
30% to postal and 70% to telecommunications operation.
According to an EAPTC's study from 1968, the relation was 35%
to 65%. An adjustment was made, however, considering tele-
communications rapid expansion since 1968 as compared with the
postal service;
(d) Fixed assets have been separated in KPTC's books;
(e)  Work in progress is given as presented by KPTC's Technical
and Planning Departments. No proper accounting is done,
however, and work in progress may be mixed up with stores
and assets in operation;
(f) Current assets and liabilities have been separated according
to recent estimates by KPTC;
(g) Long-term debt belongs almost exclusively to telecommunications
operations and the postal part has been disregarded in the
separation. No exchange losses have been booked since 1975;



- 51 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 4 pages
(h) Capital as of December 31, 1976 has been defined as the
difference between assets and liabilities as of that year.
Current net income (loss) has been added for subsequent years.
3.        No revaluation adjustments of fixed assets and no provisions for
exchange losses on foreign debt have been made by KPTC. The FYs76-78
financial statements as presented in Annexes 17-19 have, therefore, been
restated to include revaluation adjustments and exchange losses.



KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Income Statement 1976-78
(K Sh 000'000)
Provisional 1976         Provisional 1977             Budget 1978
KPTC    Post   Telecom.  KPTC    Post   Telecom.  KPTC    Post   Telecom
Operating revenues             462.1   72.7    389.4    549.4   81.4    468.0    652.8   91.2    561.6
Operating expenses
Administration                23.0    6.9      16.1      26.4    7.9      18.5      30.4    9.1      21.3
Operation                     49.7   14.9      34.8      54.2   14.2      40.0      65.8   19.7      46.1
Conveyance of mail             7.6    7.6        -        8.8    8.8        -       10.1   10.1        -
International services        80.4      -      80.4      92.4     -       92.4    106.3      -      106.3
Accommodation                 42.4   12.7      29.7      48.7   14.6      34.1      56.1   16.8      39.3
Maintenance                   56.7      -       56.7     65.3      -      65.3      75.1     -       75.1
Training                      40.6   12.2      28.4      46.6   14.0      32.6      53.6   16.1      37.5
Depreciation                  24.9    6.5      18.4      39.8    7.9      31.9      49.2    9.0      40.2
Provision for pension fund   19.1    5.7       13.4      22.0    6.6      15.4      25.3    7.6      17.7
Miscellaneous                   5.4    2.7       2.7      6.2    3.1       3.1       7.2    3.6       3.6
Total                      349.8   69.2    280.6    410.4   77.1    333.3    479.1   92.2    387.1
Operating income               112.3    3.5    108.8    139.0    4.3    134.7    173.7   (0.8)   174.5
Non-operating income net          5.6    0.2       5.4      3.0    0.5       2.5       3.3    0.7       2.6       d >
Less:  interest                  15.7    0.1      15.6     16.5    0.1      16.4      18.0    0.1      17.9      X
Net Income                 102.2    3.6      98.6    125.5    4.7    120.8    159.0   (0.2)   159.2
_                -                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o .:,
Average plant in operation    339.2   56.7    282.5    429.4   62.8    336.6    532.6   69.1    463.5            X
Rate of return (M)                33      6        40       32       7       37        27    Neg.       38       X
Operating ratio (%)               76     95        72       75      95       71        73     100       69       c



KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Balance Sheet 1976-78
(K Sh 000nooo)
Provisional 1976           Provisional 1977              Budget 1978
KPTC   Post   Telecom.   KPTC   Post   Telecom.   KPTC   Post   Telecom.
Assets
Net plant in operation          394.2   61.7   332.5       464.4   63.8   400.6        600.6   74.3    526.3
Work in progress                110.0   10.0   100.0        185.4   19.5   165.9       142.4   19.4    123.0
Investments                      15.7      -     15.7       15.7      -      15.7       18.7      -      18.7
Cash and banks                   83.5      -      83.5       45.4     -      45.4       28.9      -      28.9
Rere1ivables                    338=0  1 n R7   199.3       298.1  102.3   195.8       307.1   97.4    209.7
Stores                          146.8   44.0   102.8       154.2   46.3   107.9        161.9   48.6    113.3
Total Current Assets          568.3  172.7   395.6       497.7  148.6   349.1        497.9  146.0    351.9
Total Assets                12088.2  244.4   843.8               231.9   931.3              239.7  1,019.9
Liabilities
Capital-start of period         321.2  187.4   133.8       423.4  191.0   232.4        548.9  195.7    353.2
Current net income (loss)       102.2    3.6    98.6       125.5    4.7   120.8        158.9   (0.3)   159.2
Total Equity                  423.4  191.0   282.4       548.9  195.7   353.2        707.8  195.4    512.4
Long-term debt                  274.2      -    272.2      247.1      -    247.1       254.9      -     254.9
Less:  current portion           35.0      -      35.0       33.2     -      33.2       18.6      -_      18.6
Net long-term debt              239.2      -    239.2       213.9     -    213.9       236.3      -      236.3
Pension fund liabilities         80.0   24.0    56.0         70.0   21.0    49.0        60.0   18.0       42.0
Current position of L.T. debt  35.0        -      35.0       33.2     -      33.2       18.6      -       18.6
Other current liabilities       310.5   29.4   281.2       297.2   15.2   282.0        236.9   26.3    210.6    e
Total Current Liabilities   425.5   53.4   372.2         400.4   36.2   364.2        315.5   44.3    271.2       Q X
Total Liabilities           1,088.2  244.4   843.8   1,163.2  231.9   931.3   1,259.6  239.7  1,019.9              w
o o'~
Debt/equity ratio (%)                 54     -        54         41      -       41         33      -         33    4
Current ratio (times)               1.3    3.2       1.1        1.2    4.1      1.0        1.6    3.3        1.3    m
02



- 54 -
ANNEX 17
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Income Statement
(K Sh 000'000)
Provisional/Budget                   Forecast
Years ending December 31:               1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981          1982      1983
Operating Revenues
Telephone:  rentals                   57.4   61.7   74.1   75.5   79.1         84.2     89.9      93.5
call charges            197.5  228.3  273.9  301.3  331.4    364.6    441.1    529.3
international            59.4   79.6   95.6  107.1  119.9    161.2    193.4    232.1
connection fees           5.6    6.1    7.3    6.8    7.7         8.6       8.6       8.9
Telegraph                             10.9   12.5   15.3   16.5   18.2         20.0     22.0      24.2
Telex                                 57.9   78.7   94.5  107.1  121.1    162.2    196.4    235.9
Miscellaneous                          0.7    1.0    1.2    1.3    1.5          1.7       1.9       2.1
Total                              389.4  468.0  561.6  615.6  678.9    802.5    953.3  1,126.0
Operating Expenses
Administration                        16.1   18.5   21.3   25.1   29.7         35.0      41.3     48.7
Operation                             34.8   40.0   46.1   54.4   64.2         75.7     89.4    105.5
International services                80.4   92.4  106.3  117.8  131.9    177.3    212.7    255.3
Accommodation                         29.7   34.1   39.3   46.4   54.7         64.6      76.2     89.9
Maintenance                           56.7   65.3   75.1   82.6   90.9    100.0    110.0    12C'.?
.raining                              28.4   32.6   37.5   44.3   52.2        61.6      72.7      Sq  8
Depreciation: on book values          18.4   31.9   40.2   46.4   51.3         63.7      76.5     83.2
on revaluation Adj.  12.8   15.9   19.9   24.5   29.8          36.3      44.2      53.2
Provision for pension fund            13.4   15.4   17.7   20.9   24.6         29.1      34.3     40.5
Miscellaneous                          7.7    3.1    3.6    4.0    4.4          4.8       5.3       5.8
Total                              293.4  349.2  407.0  466.4  533.7    648.1    762.6    888.8
Operating Income                        96.0  118.8  154.6  149.2 1/45.2    154.4    190.7    237.2
Non-operating income (loss)            5.4    2.5    2.6  (42.2>-  3.1          3.5       3.8      4.2
Less:  interest                       15.6   16.4   17.9   23.3   25.3         30.9     34.0      34.4
Net Income                          85.8  104.9  139.3   83.7  123.0    127.0    160.5    207.0
Average Plant In Operation:
book value                           282.5  366.6  463.5  564.6  626.7    743.0    925.0  1,039.9
rcvalued                             418.0  496.1  645.2  810.2  944.6  1,146.3  1,432.5  1,666.9
Rate of return:
on book value (%)             40,    37       38     31      28       26        25       28
on revalued assets (,')       24      24      24     19      16       14        14        14
Operating ratio (including
lepr. on revaluations (%))             75      75     72      76      79      81        80        79
1/  Consists of a non-operating net income of K Sh 2.8 million and estimated provisions for
exchange losses of K Sh 45.0 million.



- 55 -
ANNEX 18
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Balance Sheet
(K Sh 000'000)
Provisional/Budget                          Forecast
Years ending December 31:                    1976   1977       1978      1979      1980       1981     1982      1983
Assets
Plant in operation:
book value                     538.1    638.1    804.0    927.0  1,025.9  1,274.6  1,530.1  1,664.0
revaluation adjustment         255.9    318.5    397.0    489.7   _595.8    726.7    884.7  1,063.1
Total                                   794.0    956.6  1,201.0  1,416.7  1,621.7  2,001.3  2,414.8  2,727.1
Less depreciation:
on book value                  205.6    237.5    277.7    324.1    :375.4    439.1    515.6    598.8
on revaluation adjustment   149.7    165,6    185,5    210,0    239,8    276.1    320.3    373.5
Net plant in operation                    438,7    553,5    737,8    882.6  1,006.5  1,286.1  1,578,9  1,754.8
Work in progress                          100.0    165.9    123.0        98.9    248.7    255.5    133.9    117.5
Investments and deposits                   15.7      15.7      18.7       52.1      33.4      15.7    115.9    285.9
Cash and banks                             83.5      45,.4     28.9      20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0
Accounts receivable                       199.3    15.8    209.7    153.4    169.7    200.6    240.8    281.5
Stores                                    102.8    107.9    113.3    124.6        137.1    150.8    165.9    182.5
Transfers to postal service                  -         -         -       23.7      36.8      47.6      57.9      65.7
Total Current Assets                    395.5   _349.1    351.9    322.2    363.6    419.0    484.6    549.7
Total Assets                            949.9  1,084.2  1,231.4  1,355.8  1,652.2  1,976.3  2,313.3  2,707.9
Liabilities
Capital - beginning of period             133.8    338.6    506.1    723.9    900.3  1,129.4  1,387.3  1,705.8
Current net income                         85.8    104.9    139.3        83.7    123.0    127.0    160.5    207.0
Revaluation adjustments                   119.0      62.6      78.5       92.7    106.1    130.9    158.0    178.4
CaDital at end of period                  338.6    506.1    723.9    900.3  1.129.4  1,387.3  1,705.8  2,091.2
Long-term debt                            274.2    247.1    254.9       318.5    380.8    423.5    430.8    420.1
Less:  current portion                     35.0      33.2      21.5       19.9      22.5      21.4      18.7      17.2
Net long-term debt                        239.2    213.9    233.4    298.6    358.3    402.1    412.1    402.9
Pension fund liabilities                   56.0      49.0      42.0      30.0      20.0       20.0     20.0       20.0
Current portion of long-term debt          35.0      33.2      21.5      19.9      22.5       21.4     18.7      17.2
Other current liabilities                 281.2    282.0    210.6    107.0    122.0    145.5    156.7    176.6
Total Current Liabilities               372.2    364.2    274.1    156.9    164.5    186.9    195.4    213.8
Total Liabilities                       949.9  1,084.2  1,231.4  1,355.8  1,652.2  1,976.3  2,313.3  2,707.9
Debt/equity ratio (%)                          45       34        27        26        25        23        20        17
Current ratio (times)                          1.1       1.0       1.3       2.1       2.2       2.2       2.5       2.6
1/ Includes estimated provisions for exchange losses of K Sh 45.0 million.



KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Funds Flow Statement
(K Sh 000'000)
Provisional/Budget                          Forecast
Years ending December 31:            1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983   1979/83
Sources                                                            1/
Net income before interest       101.4   121.3   157.2   107.0-/ 148.3   157.9   194.5   241.4           849.1
Depreciation                      31.2    47.8    60.1    70.9    81.1   100.0   120.7   136.4           509.1
Internal cash generation         132.6   169.1   217.3   177.92/ 229.4   257.9   315.2   377.8   1,358.21
New long-term debt                 8.0      7.9    41.0    85.1-   82.2    65.2    28.7          8.0     269.2           @
Total Sources                 140.6   177.0   258.3   263.0   311.6   323.1   343.9   385.8   1,627.4
Requirements
Capital construction             100.0   165.9   123.0    98.9   248.7   255.5   133.9   117.5           854.5:-'
Investments & deposits              -        -       3.0    33.4   (18.7)  (17.7)  100.7   170.0         267.2
Debt service:  interest           15.6    16.4    17.9    23.3    25.3    30.9    34.0    34.4           147.9
amortization      14.4    35.0    33.2    21.5    19.9    22.5    21.4    18.7           104.0
Total Debt Service             30.0    51.4    51.1    44.8    45.2    53.4    55.4    53.1           251.9
Change in working capital
(excluding current portion)    10.6   (40.3)   81.2    85.9    36.4    31.9    54.4    45.2             253.8
Total Requirements            140.6   177.0   258.3   263.0   311.6   323.1   343.9   385.8   1,627.4           i
Debt service ratio                    4.4     3.3      4.3      4.5     5.1-    4.8       5.7      7.1        5.4
1/  After provisionsfor exchange losses (K Sh 45.0 million)
2/  Including provisions for exchange losses (K Sh 45.0 million)
3/ For details, see Annex 6.



- 57 -
ANNEX 20
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOIMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS
Debit Statement
(K Sh 000)
1979      1980       1981       1982       1983
IBRD 483-EA
Amortization             1,955      2,085     2,218      2,331      2,482
Balance                48,708    46,623    44,405    42,074    39,592
Interest                 2,981     2,860      2,731      2,594      2,450
IBRD 675-EA
Amortization             1,184      1,296     1,372      1,448      1,560
Balance                 42,769    41,473    40,101    38,653    37,093
Interest                 3,035     2,948      2,855      2,756      2,651
IBRD 914-EA
Borrowings               1,720    12,160      1,520           0         0
Amortization             3,152      3,177     3,403      3,666      3,949
Balance                 86,695    95,678    93,795    90,129    86,180
Interest                 6,337     6,611      6,875      6,677      6,391
Proposed Bank Loan
Borrowings                   0    59,680    63,680    28,640        8,000
Balance                      0    59,680   123,360   152,000   160,000
Interest                     0     2,984      9,152    13,768    15,600
ITOH Credits
Borrowings              38,453    10,347           0          0         0
Amortization            13,370    11,435    14,689    :13,062       9,785
Balance               108,240   107,152    92,463    79,401    69,616
Interest                 8,974     8,077      7,486      6,445      5,588
Other Borrowings
Amortization             1,884     1,941        812        870        920
Balance                 32,116    30,175    29,363    28,493    27,573
Interest                 1,983     1,869      1,786      1,736      1,682
Debt Summary
Borrowings              40,173    82,187    65,200   :28,640        8,000
Amortization            21,545    19,934    22,494    21,377    18,696
Balance               318,528   380,781   423,487   4:30,750   420,054
Interest               23,310    25,349    30,885    33,976    34,362
Debt Service            44,855    45,283    53,379    55,353    53,058



- 58 -
ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 3 pages
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
FYs76-78 financial statements have been adjusted for revaluation
of fixed assets in operation to facilitate comparison with the forecast
period.
Income Statement
1.        Rentals.   Projections are based on the FY78 revenues plus the
rental for one exclusive line (K Sh 480/year) times the average number of
new subscribers connected under the program.
2.        Call charges are a mixture of local and long distance charges.
No discrimination is currently available. Traffic is expected to grow 10%/
year in FY79-82, an additional 20% in FY82, when programmed new long dis-
tance facilities are put in service, and 20%/year thereafter.
3.        International revenues are expected to increase 12%/year in
FY79-81, an additional increase of 20% in FY81 when the programmed inter-
national exchange is put in service, and 20%/year thereafter.
4.        Connection fees are calculated as the number of new subscribers
connected each year under the program times the current connection fee
(K Sh 300).
5.        Telegraph revenues are expected to increase 10%/year.
6.        Telex revenues include rentals, traffic charges and connection fees
for telex. Over 90% of the current revenue come from international calls.
Projections are based on an expected traffic increase of 12%/year in FY79-81,
an additional 20% in FY81, when the programmed telex exchange is put in
service, and 20%/year thereafter. Connection fees (K Sh 1,500/subscribers)
have been added according to expected number of subscribers connected each
year.
7.        Miscellaneous revenues are expected to grow 12%/year.
8.        The operating expenses for administration, operation, accommodation,
training and provisions for pension fund are expected to increase in pro-
portion to total wages, 18%/year.
9.        International services is the amount paid by KPTC to KENEXTEL
(see para. 5.04) and is expected to increase at the same rate as inter-
national revenues.



- 59 -
ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 3 pages
10.       Maintenance cost is expected to increase 10%/year.  This rate is
lower than projected additions to plant in service as new, equipment added
under the program is expected to need less maintenance 'than existing equip-
ment.
11.       Depreciation is projected as 5% of gross fixed assets in operation
valued at historic cost and 5% of projected revaluation adjustments
respectively.
*          12.        Miscellaneous expenses are expected to increase 10%/year.
13.       Extraordinary items consist of non-operating income.  In FY79 an
estimated exchange loss (K Sh 45.0 million) on KPTC's outstanding foreign
debt as of December 1978 has been included.
Balance Sheet
14.       Fixed assets are projected according to KPTC's construction pro-
gram and no capitalization of interest or exchange losses is contemplated.
The revaluation adjustments are based on:
(a)  The Cooper and Lybrand report, which indicates:  that the
gross value of fixed assets as at December 31, 1974, should
be revalued about 35% and that accumulated depreciation at
that date should be revalued 50% (including adjustments for
insufficient depreciation in the past).
(b) As from 1975, a 7% revaluation has been applied, based on
estimated average increase in replacement cost of telecom-
munications plant and equipment.
15.       Work in progress is assumed to equal the capital expenditures for
the year.
16.       Investments and deposits consisted in December 1978 of EA
EXTELCOM shares (K Sh 15.7 million) and deposits with the Kenyan Government
(K Sh 3.0 million). If the EA EXTELCOM shares are transferred to
Government (see para. 5.03), KPTC is assumed to be compensated for the full
value. Investments and deposits are projected to be K Sh 285.9 million at
the end of the project period. However, those funds will have to be reserved
for payment of eventual compensations to Uganda and Tanzania, when the final
settlement of assets and liabilities is made between the countries in the
former East African Community (see para. 5.01).
17.       Cash and banks is expected to be kept at a level of K Sh 20 million,
which has been considered adequate for KPTC's operations.
18.       Accounts receivable are expected to equal two and a half months of
billing.



- 60 -
ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 3 pages
19.       Stores are expected to increase 10%/year.  This will reduce the
current high value of stores expressed as a percentage of fixed assets.
20.       Transfers to the postal service consists of the cost for the
postal investment program. According to the Government's policy, the
Telecommunications Branch may finance the capital investments for the postal
service, if not needed for telecommunications operations and development
(see para. 5.02).
21.       Equity.  Increases are expected only through retained earnings
and revaluation adjustments.
22.       Long-term debt, as from FY79, includes estimated exchange losses
on foreign debt (K Sh 45.0 million). The exchange losses are mostly unrealized
and the exact value can be determined only after the final settlement of
EAPTC's liabilities. KPTC is expected, however, to make proper provisions
to offset expected future exchange losses when the accounting system has been
reviewed (see para. 4.09).
23.       Pension fund liabilities consist of provisions made, but not yet
invested, for the pension fund. The liability is expected to be reduced from
K Sh 42.0 million in FY78 to K Sh 20.0 million in FY80 and to be kept on that
level thereafter. Contributions to the pension fund currently equal 26% of
total wages. The same percentage has been used for the projections. The
British Government is currently considering to assume the responsibility for
former expatriates' pensions, in which case KPTC's contributions could be
reduced.
24.       Other current liabilities mainly consist of liabilities to
KENEXTEL for international services and suppliers credits for goods received
and booked in KPTC's stores, but not yet paid for. The debt to
KENEXTEL is expected to be reduced to about two and a half months of billing,
equal to KPTC's own billing cycle, and suppliers' credits are not expected
to be used for store items, according to new government policy.



- 61 -
ANNEX 22
KENYA
KENYA POSTS AND TELECOMMKUICATIONS CORPORATION (KPTC)
Related Documents and Datia Available in Project File
A.  General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
Al  -  The Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation Act 1977
A2  -  Population and Vital Statistics
A3  -  Schedule of Principal Towns and Service Centers
A4  -  Statistical Abstract
A5  -  Extracts of Coopers and Lybrand's Report
A6  -  Extracts of Thorne Riddell Associates Ltd. Report
A7  -  Kenya External Telecommunications Company Ltd.--Articles
and Memorandum of Associiation
A8  -  New Postal and Telecommunications Changes Effective
February 24, 1978
B.  General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Nil
C.  Selected Working Papers
Cl  -  Cost Estimates
C2 - Equipment Procurement--Sources of Funds
C3  -  Exchange Planning
C4  -  Equipment Rearrangements
C5  -  Calculations for Local and Foreign Contingencies
C6  -  Schedule of Disbursements
C7  -  Specification of Long-term Debt
C8  -  Rate of Return Calculations
C9  -  Schedule of Equipment Installed, Recovered, Retired, and
Reinstalled
D. Other Information Used in the Project
Nil






S LI D A N                                                                                       KENYA
Sl"=J
LOCAL EXCHANGE NETWORK
E   H I 0 P I A
'Z
u G A N D A
-T EICION f-
U M ALI
j
R E P U B L I C
-14j'
C l-   11
x
z
3 -J, >
EXISTING
IV D I A N
0 CEA IV
A R*d4* QdtOffi.s
PROPOSED PROJECT INSTALLATIONS
0 A."afi Ehmos
Eh-as                   N
A F R i
Nl
w   IRD
VIES






7b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                      IBRD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 13952
Xi;
N,A~~~~~~~~~~~ 
AffE                                                                      W~~~~~~~~~~~xE  - 
*1           K~~EL~~  j
X.&4~ ~~~~~114



