CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1680 KE
Loan Agreement
(First Telecommunications Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 11, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1680 KE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Kenya Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (hereinafter called KPTC) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to KPTC the proceeds of the Loan as
nereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and KPTC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this. Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
at.d the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "EA EXTELCOMS" means the East African External Telecom-
munications Company Limited, a private company limited by shares
established and existing under the laws of the Borrower.


﻿- 2-I
-2-
(b) "EAPTC" means the East African Posts and Telecommuni-
cations Corporation, a corporation established under the East
African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation Act, 1967
(an act of the East African Community).
(c) "KPTC" means the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation, a corporation established and existing pursuant
to the Kenya Posts and TL elecommunications Corporation Act, 1977
(No. 24 of 1977), of the Borrower.
(d) "KENEXTEL'1 means the Kenya External Telecommunications
Company Limited, a private company limited by shares established
and existing under the laws of the Borrower.
(e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and KPTC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and KPTC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agi ament, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the


﻿-3-
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven per cent (7%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause KPTC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable KPTC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
KPTC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and KPTC, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank including repayment over fifteen years
including four years' grace, interest at the rate of ten per
cent per annum and, insofar as is practicable, assumption of the
foreign exchange risk by KPTC.


﻿-4-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly 0and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange


﻿I
17-5-
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall undertake a review to:
(a) clearly define the respective responsibilities, of
KPTC and KENEXTEL in providing external telecommunications ser-
vices, and the operation and maintenance of the equipment utilized
in providing them; and
(b) work out an agreement between KPTC and KENEXTEL which
should govern the allocation of revenues in respect of these
services.
The results of this review will be furnished to the Bank
for its study and comment by June 30, 1980.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a material change shall have been made in the Act
referred to in Section 1.02 (c) of this Agreement without the
approval of the Bank;
(b) the Borrower shall have taken any action in connection
with the assets or liabilities of EAPTC or EA EXTELCOMS pursuant
to such Act or otherwise which, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
is inconsistent with the Letter Agreement dated January 25, 1978,
among the Borrower, the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic
of Uganda and the Bank;
(c) any loan or credit to KPTC shall have become due and
payable prior to its agreed maturity pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor;
(d) KPTC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of KPTC under the Project Agreement;
(e) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that KPTC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and


﻿-6-
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of KPTC or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and KPTC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and KPTC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by KPTC, and is legally binding upon KPTC in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and KPTC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and KPTC in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date July 11, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿7                                                    71
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time
being resnonsible for finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                   Telex:
FINANCE                          963 22003
Nairobi                          FOREIGN Nairobi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ J. P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amouit of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Local exchange                 8,900,000         100% of for-
equipment                                       eign expendi-
tures
(2) Cables                         2,600,000         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(3) Subscribers' plant               800,000         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures. and
60% of local
expenditures
(4) Transmission                   2,200,000   )
equipment                                 )
(5) Long distance                  1,400,000   )     100% of for-
switching equip-                          )     eign expendi-
ment                                      )     tures
(6) Equipment for                  2,000,000   )
rural services
(7) Unallocated                    2,100,000
TOTAL              20,000,000
I-,,..


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disburseLdent percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 11 -
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Installation of a total of about 46,200 additional
lines of local automatic exchange equipment with asso-
ciated cables and subscribers' plant, and a total
of about 46,000 additional connections.
Part B:   Installation of long distance public call offices
to provide services in abouit 200 urban, rural and
market centers currently without telephone services.
Part C:   Installation of eight microwave radio systems each with
a capacity of 960 channels; three UHF radio systems with
a total of 540 channels; about 190 UHF/VHF channels; and
multiplex equipment to provide about 3,100 additional
channels.
Part D:   Installation of eleven long distance automatic exchanges
with a total of about 3,600 terminations; and extensions
to existing such exchanges by a total of about 1,800
terminations.
Part E:   Construction of buildings required to house the fore-
going equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿131
- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          '(expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1983
through   October 1, 1993                    910,000
On April 1, 1994                                 890,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿rII
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.15%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              6.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.00%


