Document of                 FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2445-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
SECOND POWER PROJECT
April 4, 1979
Thls document bas a resticted distibutiom and my be sed by recipiets  ly in the performance of
their offie  dutis. Its cotents may ao otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank autboriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 1979)
Currency                       -         Gourde (G)
Gl                             =         100 centimes (c)
G5                             =         US$1
G1,000                                   US$200
G1,000,O000                              US$200,000
US$1,000,000                   =         G 5,000,000
US$1                                     C 5
Can$1,000                      =         US$850
DM1,000                        =         US$1,900
(The Gourde has, since 1919, been pegged to the dollar
at the rate of G 5 = US$1.0)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    =         3.28 (ft)            3
1 cubic meter (m)              =         35.31 cubic feet (ft )
1 cubic meter (m )             =         264.2 gallon (gal)
1 cubic meter (m )             =         6.29 barrels (bbl)
1 kilogram (kg)                =         2.21 pounds (lb)
i metric ton (1,000 kg)                  1.1 short tons (sh. ton)
1 kilowatt (kW)                =         1,000 watts (103 W)
1 megawatt (MW)                          1,000 kW (106 W)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)          -         1,000 watt-hours (103 Wh)
ABBREVIATIONS
EEC        =      European Economic Community
CIDA       =      Canadian International Development Agency
EdH        =      Electricite d'Haiti (Haitian Power Company)
KfW        =       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OAS        =       Organization of American States
ODN                Organisme du Developpement du Nord
(Regional Development Organization for the North)
ONA        =       Office Nationale d'Assurance (National
Insurance Company)
SOFRELEC   =       Societe Francaise d'Etude et de Realisation
d'Equipements Electriques
UNCDF      =       United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP       =       United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
SECOND POWER PROJECT
Credit, Special Action Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Haiti
Beneficiary:         Electricite d'Haiti (EdH)
Amount:              US$16.5 million equivalent from IDA
US$6.0 million equivalent from the EEC Special Action
Credit
Terms:               Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms:    The proceeds of the credit would be relent by the
Government to EdH for a period of 20 years, including
4 years of grace, at an interest rate of 8 percent per
annum.
Project
Description:       The proposed IDA credit would finance 38 percent, and the
proposed EEC Special Action Credit 14 percent, of the
costs of a project that includes: (i) the expansion of
the Varreux power station at Port-au-Prince by the addition
of 22-23 MW of diesel capacity, addition of 3.5 MW of
capacity to the Cap Haitien power station, 1 MW for
Port-de-Paix and 250 kW for a new power station at
Miragoane; (ii) expansion of seven substations constructed
under the First Project, construction of three new sub-
stations and acquisition of telecommunications equipment;
(iii) construction of 27 km of distribution lines, rehab-
ilitation of about 30 percent of the distribution network
in Port-au-Prince and expansion of the distribution
networks in Port-de-Paix (16 km), Les Cayes (10 km) and
Miragoane (18 km); (iv) staff training; and (v) related
consultant services for the project, for the design of a
new headquarters building for EdH, and for studies related
to the management and operations of EdH and to the mainte-
nance and monitoring of the dam at Peligre. EdH's staff
is still too small and inexperienced to ensure minimal
risks in carrying out the project: EdH will, therefore,
be assisted by consultants during project execution,
although EdH staff participation will be more extensive
than under the First Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disObsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                      Local    Foreign    Total
---------US$1,000--------
Generation (Port-au-Prince)    2,300        10,500   12,800
Generation (Provinces)             260       1,520    1,780
Substations (Port-au-Prince)   1,040         6,200    7,240
Transmission lines and
telecommunications               340       1,820    2,160
Distribution (Port-au-Prince)  1,080         3,510    4,590
Distribution (Provinces)           110         270       380
Consultants                        460       3,830    4,290
Training                             -         370      370
Subtotal base cost             5,590     28,020   33,610
Physical contingency             560       2,200    2,760
Price contingency              1,268       5,313    6,581
Total Project Cost           7,418     35,533   42,951
Financing Plan:                             Local   Foreign   Total  Percentage
…-----Million US$------
IDA/EEC Credits                   22.5     22.5       52.3
CIDA (Canada) Grant    1.5        13.0      14.5      33.7
EdH                     6.0         -       6.0       14.0
Total                 7.5       35.5     43.0      100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                           IDA FY 1980   1981    1982        1983
-------------Million US$------------
IDA/EECAnnual         7.8/3.0    6.0/3.0    2.5/-        0.2/-
Cumulative   7.8/3.0   13.8/6.0   16.3/6.0   16.5/6.0
Rate of Return:      9 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2296a-HA dated March 29, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A SECOND POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of US$16.5 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, and
a proposed EEC Special Action Credit, expressed in the currencies of the nine
EEC Member States, equivalent to about US$6.0 million, on the terms agreed
with the EEC 1/ to the Republic of Haiti to help finance a second power pro-
ject. The Government would onlend the proceeds of the credit to Electricite
d'Haiti at an annual interest rate of 8 percent for a period of 20 years,
including 4 years of grace. CIDA (Canada) is prepared to make a grant
equivalent to US$14.5 million in support of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Haiti, Report No. 2165-HA entitled
"Current Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti" was distributed to the
Executive Directors on January 8, 1979. Relevant social and economic data
are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and is
included in the U.N. list of least developed nations. GNP per capita in 1977
stood at US$230. An infant mortality rate of about 150 per thousand live
births, an average life expectancy of 50 years, low nutrition and sanitation
standards (malnutrition and gastroenteric diseases account for over half of
the deaths in the country) and an adult illiteracy rate of about 80 percent
characterize the depressed living standards of the population.
4.        The Haitian economy depends heavily on the agricultural sector.
Agriculture provides the economic base for about 77 percent of the population.
During the past 7 years, the sector's share in real GDP (1955 prices) averaged
about 42 percent but its contribution to GDP growth amounted to only about 25
percent. During the 1960s, GDP virtually stagnated while agricultural produc-
tion declined slightly. During 1970-77 the economy grew at an average annual
rate of 4 percent, led by urban residential construction, public works and
manufacturing. The year-to-year pattern has been rather erratic, mostly in-
fluenced by fluctuations in agricultural production. The continued vulner-
ability of agriculture is reflected in a GDP growth of only 2.6 percent in
1977, when the country experienced a severe drought, compared to 9.4 percent
in 1976, a good agricultural year. The agricultural sector's weak performance
is also reflected in rapidly increasing food imports. Sustained economic
growth and a broadening of its benefits requires measures to improve the pro-
ductivity of agriculture. After devoting considerable resources to the
1/   These are standard IDA terms, except that repayments would be made in
the currencies disbursed.



rehabilitation of the road network--a prerequisite for agricultural
development--the Government has recently initiated programs to introduce
improved grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee plantations and restore the
major irrigation systems.
5.        Since 1970, manufacturing industries, construction and public
utilities have emerged as the most consistently dynamic activities with annual
average growth rates of 7 percent, 16 percent and 13.7 percent, respectively.
Their combined share in real GDP averaged 17 percent, but their total contri-
bution to GDP growth during the seven-year period was around 40 percent.
The manufacturing sector owes much of its expansionary drive to the export
processing industries and to a rapid increase in output of construction
materials. With the exception of goods produced for export, the gamut of
locally manufactured products reflects the limited market potential of an
economy at the early stages of development.
6.        Since 1972, public investment has increased at an average annual
rate of 29.7 percent in real terms. Moreover, the sectoral composition of
government outlays has undergone significant changes. Whereas during the
first Five-Year Plan (1971-76) only about 10 percent of total government devel-
opment expenditures was for agriculture, the latter's share in the second
Five-Year Plan (1976-81), on the basis of projects already approved, will be
about 24 percent. Other areas of high priority are transport, education and
health, especially geared to rural areas. The overall orientation of the
1976-81 development program also clearly reflects the Government's objective
to decentralize economic activity in favor of rural areas and provincial
towns. Their share of total development expenditures is likely to increase
from about 50 percent in the recent past to about 70 percent during the
second Five-Year Plan period.
7.        Institutional strengthening is one of the second Five-Year Plan's
highest priorities, and technical assistance for project preparation and
implementation has been considerably increased. A Joint Commission for the
Implementation of External Cooperation Programs has been established in order
to consider the country's economic situation and expected technical and
financial assistance. The Commission, for which the Organization of American
States (OAS) provides the secretariat, is composed of senior government
officials and of representatives of the multilateral and bilateral aid agencies
active in Haiti. The Commission serves to coordinate the efforts of partici-
pating agencies, and the Government has been receptive to its advice.
8.        Government current revenues are of the order of 11 percent of GDP,
which is about in line with other countries at a comparable stage of develop-
ment. Haiti's fiscal system has been characterized by low buoyancy due to
heavy reliance on specific rates, a complicated structure, incomplete in-
formation on resource availability and allocation, and substantial flows out-
side normal budgetary procedures. The Government recently decided to imple-
ment major fiscal reforms with the following main objectives: (i) integration
of all government revenues into the budget and centralization of spending
authority in the Treasury; (ii) consolidation of tax collection and removal



- 3 -
of parafiscal functions from the Regie du Tabac, a public sector monopoly;
(iii) establishment of sound accounting procedures for government revenues
and expenditures.
9.        It is estimated that the measures concerning the Regie du Tabac will
make about G 20 million additional per year (US$4 million or 0.3 percent of
GDP) available for general budgetary purposes. While this increase will help
solve some of the most pressing problems, it will be necessary in the medium
and long run to mobilize further resources to keep pace with the increasing
financial requirements for development expenditures and recurrent outlays for
improved salaries as well as operation and maintenance-related purchases of
goods and services. To meet these requirements, the Government is undertaking
efforts to increase revenues through better enforcement of income taxes and
customs duties. Additional measures are under discussion such as regular
adjustments of specific import duties in line with world inflation.
10.       During the past five years, Haiti has considerably increased its
investment efforts--from about 12.3 percent of GDP in the early 1970s to
about 17.8 percent during 1975-77. The increase took place almost exclusively
in the public sector. The attainment of this investment volume has depended
heavily on financing from foreign savings. During 1975-77, gross national
savings financed an average 57 percent of gross domestic investment. The
remaining 43 percent was financed through loans on concessionary terms
(18.5 percent), grants (19.0 percent), direct investment (2 percent), and
external credits to the private sector (3.5 percent). Public sector develop-
ment expenditures, which in 1976-1977 accounted for about 50 percent of total
investment and, in addition, comprised outlays for technical assistance, were
financed in about 82 percent through loans and grants from abroad and in about
18 percent from public sector savings and domestic credit.
11.       In spite of the growing resource gap (from 3.2 percent of GDP in
1970 to 7.9 percent in 1977), Haiti has not experienced serious balance-of-
payments problems, largely as the result of an unprecedented inflow of trans-
fers (both to the Government and the private sector) and of official long-term
concessionary capital. Net reserves of the banking system reached about
US$22.9 million as of the end of September 1978. Gross reserves amounted to
about US$53 million, equivalent to about 1.7 months imports of goods and
non-factor services. In August 1978, an agreement was reached with the IMF on
an Extended Fund Facilities (EFF), under which Haiti can draw up to SDR 32.2
million over the next three years (of which up to SDR 10.7 million can be
allocated in 1978/79).
12.       The rapid increase in net imports (net of imported inputs for the
assembly industries) resulted only partially from higher investment levels
(about 25 percent). The main source of increase was private consumption (about
75 percent) in which food imports with an average annual growth of 20 percent
in real terms, play an important part. Weak agricultural performance and
substantial rural-urban migration are the factors underlying the increasing
food gap. At the same time, these factors also add to the sluggish development



- 4 -
of (net) exports, 60 percent of which come from agriculture. Thus, the
balance of trade is affected by a major structural weakness, which in the
long run could cause balance-of-payments problems. Agricultural development
programs, now under way, should result within the next few years in increases
of production mainly relating to foodstuffs for domestic consumption. Some
expansion of export crops is also expected. In addition, measures will be
taken to control non-essential imports; a more effective collection of existing
import duties and/or imposition of higher rates would serve three purposes:
slow down the increase in imports, add to Government resources and make the
fiscal system more equitable.
13.       Since there has been relatively little net foreign borrowing other
than on highly concessionary terms, the debt service ratio is relatively low
(about 5.1 percent in 1977). Nevertheless, the balance of payments in future
is likely to constitute a constraint to economic development in view of the
limited growth prospects of Haiti's agricultural exports, and because export
diversification through the development of manufacturing and tourism is still
in an early stage.  In view of the country's poverty and the dependence of its
balance of payments on world demand for a few commodities, Haiti will continue
to require external assistance on concessionary terms for some time to come if
it is to achieve a significant improvement in the standard of living of its
population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
14.       Since FY1974 the Bank Group has financed eight projects in Haiti.
Two credits for highway projects were made in FY1974 and FY1975. In FY1976,
a credit was made for an education project and, in FY1977, two credits for
power and rural development projects, respectively. In FY1978, credits were
made for a transportation project (secondary roads and a pilot port component);
for a second education project and for a water supply project in provincial
towns. The total of credits outstanding is US$93.5 million, of which US$45.3
million are undisbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations in Haiti as of February 28, 1979, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. IFC has not made any investments in Haiti but is consider-
ing a number of projects.
15.       Various multilateral and bilateral development agencies are active
in Haiti. IDB has made loans for rural development, transportation, indus-
trial credit, rural education, water supply and for the development of the
Port-au-Prince harbor. USAID is providing assistance for integrated rural
development projects, community development, malaria eradication, maternal-
child health and family planning, modernization of coffee production and
marketing, construction of feeder roads and for highway maintenance. In
addition, USAID is considering a program of budgetary assistance under Title
III of PL 480 to help strengthen the staff and improve the efficiency of
key ministries. CIDA (Canada) is supporting a rural development project
in the Southern Peninsula and is assisting agricultural and technical educa-
tion and the construction of school facilities. It has completed a study of



Haiti's water resource potential both for irrigation and for power generation.
France is financing seed production, education planning and research, road
construction and equipment for provincial airports. The Federal Republic
of Germany is providing technical and financial assistance for a regional
development pro4ect in the Gonaives Plain, power facilities for Cap Haitien
and the Drouet and Gonaives-St. Marc areas, and, together with France, is
providing technical assistance for the execution of the IDA-financed rural
development project in the Northern Plain.
16.       Recent and prospective IDA operations take into account the ongoing
and planned roles of other official lending agencies. In line with the
Government's Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (1976-81) and with
the priorities of Haiti's perceived needs, current and planned IDA operations
are meant to support the improvement and expansion of basic infrastructure in
transportation and power; to expand educational opportunities and upgrade
technical skills and to promote regional development both in rural areas and
in provincial towns, as in the rural development project of FY1977 and the Fifth
Transportation (secondary roads and provincial ports) and Provincial Water
Supply projects of FY1978. In agriculture, the sector agencies are still weak,
though some improvement is taking place. Consequently, development of nation-
wide programs is still premature and agricultural projects can best be imple-
mented on a regional basis.
17.       The Bank was Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed power sector study
which prepared estimates of energy supply/demand balances and recommended
investment priorities in Haiti's power sector, taking into account the possi-
bility of using lignite as a fuel for thermal plants as well as the country's
hydropower potential determined on the basis of the CIDA-financed study
mentioned in paragraph 19. The UNDP-financed power sector study has influenced
the design of the second power project. The ongoing Rural Development project
provides for the preparation of another project which would extend the scope
of the Regional Development Agency's programs throughout the Northern Plain.
An urbanization project is in an early stage of identification; it is expected
to help the poorer segment of the population through upgrading of a produce
market in Port-au-Prince and sites and services assistance in provincial towns.
18.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's public external debt disbursed
and outstanding came to 24.6 percent as at September 30, 1977. The Bank
Group's share of external public debt service in 1977 was about 2.0 percent.
While its share of outstanding public external debt would decline to about
22 percent by 1980, its share of external debt service would rise to about
5 percent.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resources
19.       Haiti's exploitable energy resources are scarce.  The only sites
suitable for development of hydroelectric plants of reasonable size are mainly
located downstream from the existing Peligre Dam, site of Haiti's only large



- 6 -
hydro power station. A CIDA-financed study of hydropotential indicates that
total installed capacity at the downstream sites is unlikely to exceed 80 NW.
The CIDA study also identified several sites for small hydroplants. Total
hydro potential in the country probably does not exceed about 100 MW. A
recently completed UNDP-financed power sector study has identified a lignite
deposit at Maissade of some 15 million tons that would be sufficient to
operate a lignite-fueled thermal plant of 120 MW for about 25 years. Haiti
has requested the Federal Republic of Germany to consider financing the final
study of the field at Maissade and a smaller field at camp Perrin. The study
would determine the feasibility of mining the Maissade lignite field in
quantities sufficient to fuel a power plant. A separate study would subse-
quently define a least cost program for the expansion of generation capacity,
taking into account both potential hydro plants and the lignite-fired plant,
and prepare final feasibility studies.
20.       Imported refined petroleum products are the main source of commercial
energy; Haiti has no known deposits of petroleum. Charcoal is used extensively
for domestic and small industrial purposes: for 1975, FAQ estimated that some
2.4 million cubic meters of wood were used as a source of energy. The wide-
spread use of wood as a fuel (equivalent to 46 percent of energy requirements)
has had disastrous consequences; the progressive removal of tree cover has
resulted in severe erosion problems and the loss of fertile land at a rate now
equivalent to 6,000 hectares per year. Moreover, because of erosion-induced
siltation, the useful volume of the Peligre Reservoir has declined from about
450 million cubic meters to 350 million cubic meters.
Power Supply and Market
21.       The proportion of Haiti's population with access to electricity is
extremely low. Nationally, only 5 percent of the population has access to
power service. In Port-au-Prince, connection density was about 29 percent by
the end of 1978. For the urban population as a whole, only 23 percent have
access to electricity. The low level of connection density and of consumption
can be attributed to the extreme poverty of the population.
22.       Until the 47 MW Peligre power hydrostation became operational in
1971, Port-au-Prince had been supplied by an old diesel power plant with a
nominal capacity of 14 MW. The First Power Project added 21 MW to installed
capacity in Port-au-Prince, followed by another 20 MW purchased by the Govern-
ment on an emergency basis during the severe drought of 1977, which severely
curtailed power generation from Peligre, and compelled industry to purchase
some 6 MW of captive plant. In addition, several industries located in the
Port-au-Prince area, including a cement plant, a sugar mill and a flour mill,
have their own generating facilities with an estimated capacity of about 14
MW. Little is known about captive plant elsewhere in the country but
installed capacity is believed to be some 20-25 MW.
23.       In 1977, per capita power consumption in the Port-au-Prince metro-
politan area probably did not exceed 50 kWh (compared to per capita consumption
of 150 kWh in Honduras and 190 kWh in the Ivory Coast, both in 1974). As a
reflection of the poverty of the average consumer, it is to be noted that in



1976, about 40 percent of EdH's consumers accounted for only 2 percent of its
sales. Between 1972 and 1977, sales of electricity in Port-au-Prince increased
at an annual average rate of 16.4 percent and are expected to increase at an
average annual rate of 13.5 percent through 1983. The employment generating
industrial and commercial sectors, whose combined demand grew at 9 percent in
1977, accounted for 59 percent of power consumption in Port-au-Prince. Other
classes of consumption were as follows for 1977: residential: 31 percent;
Government: 5 percent and public lighting: 5 percent.
Sector Investment Program
24.       Although the Government does not have a formal electrification
policy, EdH has, with the help of consultants, developed an expansion program
for the 1978-83 period. The program, of which the project forms a part, is
estimated to cost US$94.6 million in current prices, with a foreign exchange
content of US$72 million. The generation component (total cost: US$47.5
million) is largely diesel plant required in Port-au-Prince by 1983. Apart
from ongoing works, in Port-au-Prince and Gonaives, the balance comprises
diesel expansion in Cap Haitien and two small towns, as well as four small
hydro stations, aggregating some 5.6 MW, identified in the CIDA-financed
study of hydro potential. The transmission (US$20.7 million) component is
largely the additional work required in Port-au-Prince to further extend
existing 115-kV and 69-kV substations and 69-kV lines to complete the sub-
transmission system for Port-au-Prince and to rationalize the feeder system
for the city. Development in distribution (US$22.5 million) would largely
comprise rehabilitation and expansion in Port-au-Prince and the provinces.
The balance (US$4.0 million) consists of ongoing works, consumer connections
and small extensions.
25.       Haiti has no rural electrification program, nor is it likely that
such a program can be started within the next three to five years. Even then,
any such program would be limited by the availability of funds to meet local
costs and by the urgent need to replace obsolete facilities in urban areas.
Moreover, given the poverty of rural inhabitants, service would have to be
subsidized at a level that could severely affect the cash flow of EdH.
Sector Organization
26.       In 1971, the Government-owned power company, Electricite d'Haiti
(EdH), was established to take over the new hydroelectric plant at Peligre
and the operations of a privately owned power company, whose concession
had expired. EdH's 1971 charter, and subsequent amendments thereto, entrust
it with the development and distribution of electric power throughout the
country. In practice, until 1974, EdH's activities were confined to operating
the Peligre hydro-complex and the diesel facilities in Port-au-Prince and
Cap Haitien. In 1974, it began to assume control of all public service power
facilities in the country and now operates isolated diesel systems in 10
provincial towns. No sector regulatory agency exists as such; this function
is carried out by the Presidency of the Republic and exercised through key
ministers who form EdH's Board of Directors. The President of the Republic is
president of EdH. However, in accordance with EdH's charter, the President of



- 8-
the Republic has delegated authority to the Minister of Public Works, Transport
and Communications, as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the company.
Other members of the Board are the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs;
the Minister of Commerce and Industry; the President/Director General of the
National Bank and the General Manager of EdH. The Board has confined itself
to approval of EdH's major investment plans, tariffs, borrowings and broad
policy issues. In practice, the Company's General Manager, who is appointed
by the President of the Republic, has, as EdH's chief operating officer, had a
reasonable degree of autonomy in directing the company's day-to-day operations.
The Government has agreed to hold periodic sector coordination meetings to
help coordinate the activities of external aid agencies active in the power
sector--at present, these are IDA, CIDA and KfW. The first such meeting took
place in Port-au-Prince in February 1979.
27.       EdH is organized along functional lines:  the General Manager is
assisted by three department heads, for technical operations, for planning and
for administration and finance, all of whom are appointed by the President of
the Republic on the recommendation of the Board of Directors. To strengthen
EdH's autonomy, assurances were obtained from the Government that the positions
of General Manager, Technical Director, Planning and Dispatch Director and
Administrative Director be filled with persons whose qualifications are satis-
factory to the Borrower, the Association 1/ and EdH (Section 3.01(b) of the
draft Joint Project Agreement). EdH's provincial operations function under
close supervision of headquarters in Port-au-Prince. All billing and account-
ing for provincial customers is made at Port-au-Prince and, except for the
capital city and Cap Haitien, all collections in the provinces are made on
behalf of EdH by the National Bank. This method of operation in the provinces
has not created undue difficulties, mainly because provincial sales of power
presently account for only 7 percent of total sales. It is likely that the
current organization of provincial facilities and their working relationships
with headquarters will be inadequate to meet with expected growth of provincial
operations. EdH has, however, agreed to a study of its regional organization
and operations, and to submit, by December 31, 1979, recommendations thereon
for the Association's review and to subsequently implement such recommendations
in agreement with the Association (Section 3.06 of the draft Joint Project
Agreement).
28.       EdH continues to be a relatively small organization that still lacks
sufficient depth in managerial, technical and administrative skills. This
lack reflects the country's scarcity of personnel with training for, and
experience in, the power sector. Nevertheless, the situation has improved
following the training of 10 engineers in France in power generation, trans-
mission, distribution and planning, under the First Project. The engineers
have now resumed their work with EdH. In addition, 20 technicians, were
trained at a training center in Port-au-Prince. Accounting personnel were
trained on-the-job by a consulting firm that also drew up EdH's chart of
1/   Unless otherwise noted, references to the Association include the
Association as Administrator of the Special Action Fund set up by
Member States of the European Economic Community.



accounts. Power station personnel were trained on-the-job during installation
of the Varreux Power Plant financed under the First Project. However, in
order to attract and retain competent personnel, EdH will have to improve the
conditions of service of its staff, including adoption of a comprehensive
retirement ple-i.  The Association has encouraged EdH to study the feasibility
of establishing an appropriate pension plan. Discussions have already started,
with the Government's consent, with private insurers.
IDA Strategy and Participation in the Sector
29.       Since the Association's original involvement with the First Power
Project, it has sought to (a) assist in the formulation of a national power
development plan; (b) help Haiti develop the power sector by using, to
the extent possible, the country's own energy resources; and (c) assist
EdH to become an efficient and financially sound national power company.
Under the proposed credit, the Association would continue to pursue these
long-term objectives, particularly by seeking to rationalize sector develop-
ment; provide access to electricity to a greater number of households;
accelerate power service connection to labor-intensive industries; establish
adequate and reliable power service in Port-au-Prince as well as extend
services to provincial towns; and increase EdR's institutional and financial
independence through better staff training, adequate pricing, reduction in
losses and thefts and increasing the overall management efficiency of the
company.
30.       The First Power Project (Credit 645-HA of July 1976 for US$16.0
million) covered the first part (1976-78) of a two-stage power development
program for the 1976-81 period. The decision to carry out this program in two
stages arose from constraints in the availability of both IDA funds and local
counterpart funds and from the desire to strengthen EdH institutionally before
it undertook larger investments. The objectives of the First Project were
threefold:  technical, institutional, and financial.   The project addressed
the urgent need to install 21 MW of diesel generating capacity in Port-au-Prince
at a new power station (Varreux) near the industrial and commercial heart of
the city, together with facilities to transmit power to consumers, particularly
industry. Institutionally, EdH was reorganized, its autonomy strengthened,
and its technical competence supported by technical assistance for engineering,
project supervision and staff training. The project has been substantially
completed, but is about 20 months behind schedule in operation of the Varreux
station. This delay arose because of a transport accident to the two small
generators and because of a major breakdown of the two larger units, more
recently. These units are being repaired by the supplier. Transmission
facilities were completed substantially on schedule. A new tariff structure,
about 10 percent above the previous tariff, coupled with improvements in
operating efficiency, have resulted in a substantial improvement of EdH's
financial position.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project, based upon the UNDP-financed Sector Survey completed
in August 1977, was prepared by EdH with the help of consultants (SOFRELEC -
France), and takes into account the results of the CIDA-financed study on
Haiti's hydro resources.  Following review of the Sector Survey in September           -
1977, an IDA identification mission visited Haiti in November 1977 and, on the
basis of its recommendations, a feasibility study was completed in May 1978.
The project was appraised in June 1978 jointly with a mission from CIDA. Post-
appraisal missions visited Haiti in September 1978 and Ottawa in October 1978
for discussions on parallel financing. Negotiations for the proposed credit
were held in Washington from February 6 to February 9, 1979. The Haitian
delegation was headed by Mr. P. Saint Come, Secretary of State for Public
Works, Transport and Communications and Chairman of the Board of EdH. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Haiti - Second Power Project" (No. 2296a-HA
dated March 26, 1979) is being distributed separately. A Credit, Special
Action Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this report. A Supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet is appended at Annex III.
Project Description
32.       The project, for which parallel financing is proposed by IDA/EEC
and CIDA, substantially comprises the 1979-82 portion of the power development
program.  Other parts of the program are being financed by Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (KfW) (Federal Republic of Germany), by the Government of Haiti
and by EdH itself. The project comprises:
(a) 22-23 MW of additional diesel capacity at the Varreux power
station in Port-au-Prince, 3.5 MW in Cap Haitien (including
two mobile units aggregating 1.7 MW), 1 MW in Port-de-Paix,
and 250 kW in a new power station at Miragoane;
(b) Expansion of seven substations (constructed under the First Project)
and construction of three substations (Petionville, Croix-des-Bouquets
and Carrefour); construction of 27 km of distribution lines, and
telecommunication equipment;
(c) Rehabilitation of about 30 percent of the distribution network
in Port-au-Prince; renovation and expansion of the distribution
networks at Port-de-Paix, Les Cayes, and Miragoane;
(d) Consultant services for the project, for the preliminary
design of a new head office building, and for studies
related to the management and operation of EdH and for the
completion of studies on the maintenance and operation of the
Peligre Dam facility; and
(e) Training of EdH's staff.



- 11 -
33.       The generating component would meet power demand in Port-au-Prince
in the 1981-83 period, as well as urgent requirements in four provincial
towns. The two units for Port-au-Prince would be installed in the new Varreux
power station constructed under the First Project. The generating equipment
to be obtained with CIDA financing will be installed in a new power station
being constructed under a DM 6 million KfW credit for a project that includes
improvement of the distribution network in Cap Haitien. The two mobile units
proposed for IDA financing will also be operated at the Cap Haitien power
station. Once sufficient generating capacity has been installed at Cap
Haitien, one of the mobile units will be transferred to Les Cayes (in the
South) which is experiencing acute power shortages. The second mobile unit
would be retained at Cap Haitien as cold reserve, pending its transfer to meet
shortages elsewhere. The Peligre study, to be undertaken by consultants,
would determine and recommend sound monitoring and maintenance procedures
for the Peligre Dam, Haiti's only multi-purpose dam and its largest power
facility.
34.       Renovation of the Port-au-Prince network is also urgently required.
Much of the equipment in use is obsolete, conductors are undersized and many
of the lines have been extended indiscriminately, causing low voltages,
extremely high losses and frequent outages. About 30 percent of the network
would be rehabilitated as part of a program that will take 10 years to com-
plete. Rehabilitation of the distribution network is complicated by the fact
that telephone and cable television lines are strung on EdH's poles: these
networks are also in extremely poor condition and their rehabilitation would
have to proceed concurrently with rehabilitation of EdH's distribution network.
The Government has agreed to cause EdH, TELECO (the telecommunications company)
and TeleHaiti (the cable television company) to undertake the concurrent
renewal of their respective networks; to provide or cause to be provided the
funds required by TELECO, and to cause TeleHaiti to provide the funds required
for the purpose (Section 4.04 of the draft Credit and Special Action Credit
Agreements). A joint commission representing the three institutions will
agree on: (i) conditions, standards and regulations on the joint use of
poles, and (ii) the planning, scheduling and coordination of the concurrent
renewal of the three networks.
35.       Consultant services would include those of general consultants to
assist EdH in its management and operations, in the execution of the project,
assistance in the preparation of a manpower survey, and, based on the latter,
preliminary design of a new head office building.
36.       EdH's staff training program would be continued under the proposed
credit and the CIDA grant. Under the credit, training would be provided for:
operation and maintenance (45 man-months); system planning (3 man-months);
system operations and control (6 man-months) training methodology (6 man-
months); personnel management (3 man-months) and stock accounting and pro-
curement procedures (3 man-months).



- 12 -
Project Cost and Financing
37.       The total cost of the project (see Credit and Project Summary) is
estimated at US$43 million, with a foreign exchange content of US$35.5
million. The proposed credit of US$16.5 million would finance 38 percent
and the Special Action Credit of US$6.0 million, 14 percent, of total project
costs. The CIDA grant of US$14.5 million equivalent would finance 34 percent
of total project costs. The effectiveness of the CIDA grant would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 7.01(b) of the
draft Credit Agreement). 1/ EdH would finance the balance of US$6 million
equivalent, or 14 percent of total costs from internally generated funds. EdH
is exempt from income taxes and customs duties.
38.       The proposed Credit would help finance the foreign exchange costs
of generating capacity for Port-au-Prince, some transmission material and
equipment, renovation and expansion of the Port-au-Prince distribution net-
work, staff training, consulting services, and two mobile generating units
for Cap Haitien. The EEC Special Action Credit would finance the foreign
exchange cost of a diesel generator, with ancillary works and services and
some transmission and distribution equipment, for Port-au-Prince. CIDA would
finance the foreign exchange costs and US$1.5 million equivalent of local
costs for additional generating capacity for Cap Haitien and for two provin-
cial towns, distribution renovation in the three towns, transmission works
in Port-au-Prince, consultant services and staff training.
39.       The proceeds of the IDA Credit and of the EEC Special Action Credit
would be onlent by the Government to EdH in US dollars under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement satisfactory to the Association. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement would be an additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed
credits (Sections 3.01(b) and 7.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement and
Sections 3.01 (b) and 6.01 (b) of the draft Special Action Credit Agreement).
The IDA/EEC credits would be onlent at an annual interest rate of 8 percent,
for a period of 20 years including 4 years of grace. The Government and
CIDA have indicated that the CIDA grant would be onlent on similar terms.
40.       Retroactive financing of US$1.1 million is recommended under the
proposed IDA credit to help finance the cost of two mobile generating units
for Cap Haitien (US$0.6 million) and the cost of consultant services for
preliminary design and preparation of bid documents (US$0.5 million). In
February 1978, the Government informed the Association that Cap Haitien was
experiencing acute power shortages with daily curtailments of power service,
and requested the Association's agreement in principle to retroactive financ-
ing for the purchase of mobile generating equipment. These units were
tendered under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines for Procurement, were awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder
in August 1978 and started to operate in December 1978.
1/   Unless otherwise noted, references to the draft Credit Agreement in-
clude references to the relevant section of the draft Special Action
Credit Agreement.



- 13 -
41.       The total cost of consultant services for the IDA part of the
project, including contingencies, is US$2.8 million. About 250 man-months
of consulting services would be provided at a 1978 cost of US$6,500 per
man-month which is in line with current costs of consultants of this type.
In addition, c^nsultants would be retained by CIDA in connection with the
CIDA-financed component.
Project Execution
42.       The project would be carried out by EdH with the help of consultants
retained under the proposed credit in connection with the IDA/EEC-financed
component, and with the help of Canadian consultants, in connection with the
CIDA-financed component. Because CIDA's regulations do not allow consultants
to be engaged until after the CIDA grant has been approved (expected for
April/May 1979), Canadian consultants would be engaged, at the earliest, in
October 1979. This delay will not affect project implementation to any large
extent because the components to be financed by CIDA for Port-au-Prince are
mainly in transmission facilities, which have a shorter lead time than the
generating capacity proposed for IDA financing. There may be some delays in
Cap Haitien, but their impact is likely to be minimal in view of the avail-
ability of generating capacity financed by the proposed credit and the Govern-
ment's purchase of additional generating capacity for that town. The project
is expected to be completed by March 1982.
43.       As EdH lacks the expertise to carry out the project alone, SOFRELEC
(France), a firm retained under the First Project, would continue as EdH's
general consultant and assist it in detailed engineering and procurement in
connection with the IDA/EEC components. EdH has agreed to establish, not
later than October 1, 1979, a planning section within its Planning and Dispatch
Department and to employ a qualified person as chief of this section (Section
2.09 (b) of the draft Joint Project Agreement). In addition, two distribution
technicians/draftsmen would be obtained from SOFRELEC to work under the new
chief of planning.
44.       In order to coordinate the services of the various consultants
(SOFRELEC for the IDA part, Canadian consultants for the CIDA part and DECON
of Germany for the non-project KfW-financed works) EdH would create a
Coordinating Commmittee. The Committee, to be chaired by EdH's Director of
Planning and Dispatch, would include EdH's Technical Director and the heads of
the three consulting teams. It would meet regularly to coordinate design work
(including standardization of design), schedule construction activities, and
staff training, and coordinate supervision. On a day-to-day basis, the chief
of planning would serve as project coordinator (Section 2.09 of the draft
Joint Project Agreement). The cost of the services of the project coordinator
would be met in equal shares under the proposed IDA credit and the CIDA grant.
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       Procurement of goods under the IDA Credit would be made in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. However, because of the need to
match existing equipment, equipment to the value of US$2.25 million equivalent



- 14 -
would be obtained by direct negotiation: this equipment includes US$0.5
million worth of telecommunications equipment; US$0.75 million for control and
switching panels for the Varreux power station and US$0.8 million for the
Varreux substation, and US$0.2 million of protection equipment, also for
Varreux. A preferential margin of 15 percent would be offered to local
manufacturers. For civil works, local bidders would be allowed a 7.5 percent
margin of preference on bid evaluation. Procurement under the Special Action
Credit would be limited to member states of the European Economic Community.
Procurement under the CIDA grant would be made in Canada and Haiti under CIDA
procedures.
46.       Disbursements would be made between June 1979 and December 1982 on
the basis of 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment
and associated services; 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of consult-
ing services and 50 percent of civil works. Bids for two diesel units for
the Varreux power station have been submitted in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines on Procurement. Award would not be made until consideration of
the proposed Credits by IDA's Executive Directors. EdH would negotiate with
the successful bidder for the supply of the third unit proposed for financing
under the Special Action Credit in the event that the successful bidder were
to be from the EEC countries.
Financial Aspects
47.       Prior to 1975, EdH's financial performance had been very weak.
Tariffs had remained unchanged for more than 30 years and did not earn a level
of income sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. Extremely
high energy losses and thefts, attaining up to 42 percent of gross generation,
together with non-payment of electricity bills by the public sector, compounded
EdH's cash difficulties. From the time of EdH's creation, in 1971, to 1975,
internal cash generation was negative and major capital investments were
financed either by government grants or by overdrafts from the National
Bank, the latter reaching US$3.4 million by September 1975. EdH's financial
performance began to improve during the 12 months ending in September 1976,
and although no tariff adjustments were made in that year, its net operating
income more than covered interest payments and it achieved a 4.6 percent rate
of return on fixed assets. For the first time in its history, EdH began to
contribute to its expansion program, meeting 54 percent (US$1.6 million) of
its financing requirements for its FY1976.
48.       EdH has taken adequate action to reduce losses through improved
efficiency and through policing of unregistered connections and checking of
individual meters. As a result, losses declined to about 24 percent of gener-
ation in 1976 and 1977, which is lower than the 28 percent target envisaged
under the First Project. EdH is preparing a program to at least double the
size of its policing crew with a view to further reducing losses through
checking for defective meters, disconnecting illegal connections, making
random checks on meters and using statistics to monitor consumption patterns.
EdH has set itself a target of reducing losses to about 20 percent by 1980/81.
This effort should further improve its financial position, as a reduction in
losses equivalent to 4 percent of generation would represent additional
revenue of about US$600,000, or some 6 percent of current revenues (Section
3.02 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).



- 15 -
49.       EdH's debt service coverage is expected to range from 3.1 in
1978/79, to 2.6 in 1982/83 when interest payments to the Government begir.
in connection with the Second Project. Although the debt/equity ratio is
projected to increase from 25/75 at the end of FY1977 to 45/53 by the end of
FY1983, EdH would still have an adequate margin for future borrowing. To
provide the Association with an opportunity to review the need for, and terms
of any future borrowings, agreement has been reached with EdH that EdH would
not incur long-term debt without the Association's prior consent unless
internal cash generation covers maximum debt service 1.5 times (Section 4.05
of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
50.       In compliance with agreements under the First Project, a new tariff
structure, based on marginal costs, was adopted in January 1977. Implementa-
tion coincided with a severe drought which sharply curtailed power generation
at the Peligre hydro-station and resulted in strong consumer dissatisfaction,
causing the Government temporarily to roll back tariffs in March 1977. Tariffs
were restored to their January 1977 level in July of that year and EdH met the
agreed rate of return objectives in both 1977 and 1978. The Government has
adopted procedures designed to prevent the recurrence of such arrears in
the payment of public sector electricity bills. It has also agreed to assume
debt service incurred by EdH for construction of the Peligre dam (Sections
4.03 and 4.05 of the draft Credit Agreement).
51.       EdH has undertaken to achieve a rate of return of 7 percent on revalued
net fixed assets in operation through FY1979, a rate of return of 7.5 percent
in its FY1980 and 8 percent in FY1981 and thereafter (Section 4.03 of the draft
Joint Project Agreement). It is expected that EdH's financial performance
will continue to improve as it achieves these rates of return, which will
require average tariff increases of about 9 percent annually during project
execution. In February 1979, EdH effectively increased its rates by an
average of 9 percent to achieve the 1979 target rate of return. Moreover, to
enable EdH to self-finance a reasonable share of its investment program, the
Government agreed that EdH's resources would only be used for the financing
of its investment program, its operational expenses and for its debt service
(Section 4.07 of the draft Credit Agreement).
52.       Assurances were obtained that EdH would not carry out investments,
exceeding 1 percent of its net fixed assets in operation for any one project,
unless satisfactory evidence has been presented to the Association that the
project is sound and that financing is available to carry it out (Section 4.01
of the draft Credit Agreement and Section 4.06 of the draft Joint Project
Agreement).
Audit
53.       EdH's accounts will continue to be audited by an external auditor
acceptable to the Association and will be submitted to the Association within
four months of the close of each fiscal year. Although EdH has recently
appointed an internal auditor, no consistent internal audit is carried out.
Agreement was reached with EdH that it would develop internal audit, financial
planning and management reporting procedures with the assistance of consultants
and implement such procedures not later than March 31, 1980 (Sections 3.07
and 4.02 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).



- 16 -
Demand and Generation Forecasts
54.       During execution of the First Project, EdH's consultants prepared a
sales forecast for each consumer category in Port-au-Prince. The forecast was
reasonably correct for commercial and "other" users, but residential, indus-
trial and public consumption was overestimated, in part because the 1977
drought caused a postponement of some industrial connections. Present fore-
casts show that for Port-au-Prince, capacity balances would be adequate through
1982 under normal hydrological conditions, though there could, in the event of
an exceptionally dry year, be a deficit in 1981 and 1982. Sales are expected to
increase at an average annual rate of 13.5 percent between 1978 and 1983, rising
from a base of 131.6 GWh in 1977 to 281 GWh in 1983. By 1983, industrial
plant would account for almost 70 percent of total sales. In the provinces,
sales would increase by 16.5 percent per annum through 1983, although total
provincial sales would remain modest compared to sales in Port-au-Prince.
Economic Rate of Return
55.       Because the Second Project consists of several components of EdH's
1978-83 investment program, and considering the difficulty of allocating
benefits to each component, the internal rate of return has been calculated
for the investment program as a whole. No attempt has been made to quantify
the benefits arising from increased electricity supply on the expansion of
commerce, industry or employment. The cost stream, adjusted to early 1979
prices, was compared to incremental revenue attributable to the project on
the basis of the rates increased by EdH in February 1979. On the above
assumptions, the rate of return for the program is about 9 percent. As
regards the generating component, comparisons between various types of plants
showed that medium-speed diesels are the least cost solution for a discount
rate of up to 17 percent. A sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of
return is very sensitive to changes in electricity tariffs, moderately sensi-
tive to changes in capital costs and only slightly sensitive to changes in
fuel costs.
Project Risks
56.       Although the number of qualified engineers in EdH has increased,
EdH is still too small and inexperienced to ensure minimal risks in project
implementation. For this reason, SOFRELEC and Canadian consultants will
continue to supervise project execution. However, it is expected that par-
ticipation of EdH's staff in the Second Project will be much more extensive
than in the First Power Project.
Environmental Considerations
57.       As under Credit 645-HA, specifications concerning maximum sulphur
dioxide emissions, maximum noise level and thermal pollution are being re-
quired for the Varreux generating units. Power lines would be routed to
minimize visual impact.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL !NSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Haiti
and the Asso-i tion, the draft Special Action Credit Agreement between the
Republic of Haiti and the Association as Administrator of the Special Action
Account established by member states of the European Economic Community, the
draft Joint Project Agreement between the Association, the Administrator and
Electricite d'Haiti (EdH) and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.  Additional conditions of the
proposed IDA/EEC credits have been referred to in Part IV and are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
59.       Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the
Association and the Administrator had been entered into
between the Government and EdH;
(ii) that the CIDA grant had been executed and delivered and that
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the
right to make withdrawals thereunder, except for the
effectiveness of the Credit and Special Action Credit,
had been fulfilled; and
(iii) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Credit and the Special Section, one in terms of the other,
had been fulfilled.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of the Association, and that the proposed Special Action Credit would
be in conformity with the agreement dated May 2, 1978, between the Association,
the EEC and its member states.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit and the proposed EEC Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 4, 1979
Washington, D.C.



18 -                                            Annex I
Page 1 of 5
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                        REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. OM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL              27.8                                                       SAME          SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       14.7                                   MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    110.0        130.0      230.0            1066.7       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)                                 30.0            911.1         88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           3.6           4.2        4.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.0            18.7       23.1              57.9        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K1M.                        131.0        153.0      168.0             25.6         46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    303.0           306.0      319.0              77.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            42.0         41.5       41.3             42.0         43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                            54.9         54.0       54.7             52.2         53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.1          4.5        4.0               3.7         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.6          1.6        1.6 /f            2.7         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                 2.6          3.8        4.0               4.3         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        39.9         37.6       35.8 /R           35.8        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        21.8         17.8       16.3 /R            9.1        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          3.0        2.5               2.6         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..         ..              15.1        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               102.0        100.0      102.9             102.1        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        ..           ..         ..             103.9        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               ..           ..         ..             60.3         50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..           ..         ..              26.7        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        27.0         33.0         ..               8.7          ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.2            47.7       50.0 L            62.6        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             200.0            *-     149.1              56.9       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       12.0              60.7        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                  ..           ..       46.0              78.0        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..        3.0              34.9        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..              61.1        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..              80.3        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..              25.4         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            10600.0      11730.0    8510.0             1899.3    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       10310.0       7460.0    5550.0             1220.1      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1790.0       1370.0    1450.0 /h           422.3      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                  ..           ,.      290.0 /h          258.2       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..    5270.0 /h          2281.6      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..         ..             25.6        19.5          19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          4.6         ..               5.2         5.2
URBAN                                  ..          4.8         ..                ..         4.8
RURAL                                  ..          4.5         ..                ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          2.1         ..               2.0
URBAN                                  ..          2.2          ..              2.1          1.8          2.3
RURAL                                  ..          2.1          ..              2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..            ..        2.9             51.2        25.9          28.3
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..             77.3
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..              12.8          ..         10.3



_ 19 _
Arnnex I
Page 2 of 5
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                     REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                  46.0        50.0      70.0            103.5       62.9         75.8
FEMALE               42.0         43.0        ..            102.9       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  4.0          6.0       8.0             37.2       14.4         17.7
FEMALE                2.0          4.0        ..             37.9        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 21.0         19.0       8.0             14.7        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0        45.0        ..             32.8       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                          13.0        18.0        ..             17.8       19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        10.0        20.0         ..            74.9       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         3.0       3.2             26.9        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0        17.0      20.0            173.5       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5          2.0       2.9             69.4        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        19.0      21.0             72.8        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        ..              4.3        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2100.0      2150.0   2357.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   47.4        47.4      47.2             21.4       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.0        73.7        *-             37.8       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.4          7.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                55.8        50.6      50.5             30.8       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 59.7        55.2      55.1             47.2       53.3         50.3
FEKALE                               52.1        46.4      46.2             13.2       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8         0.8         ..             1.7        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         ..            28.9       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..         ..            57.7       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..        ..              3.2        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..         ..            10.7       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     159.0            251.9       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..          ..     135.0            200.6       71.9         97.9
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     189.0            403.1      100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      34.0            258.0       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      55.0             24.8       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      78.0             65.2       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Latin America & Caribbean;  Id  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1978);  /e  Lower Middle
Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976); /f 1970-76 growth rate is 1.8 percent; /A Haitian Instituite
of Statistics data for crude birth and death rates and for life expectancy at birth are 36.8, 14.5
and 52.2 respectively; /h 1972.
September, 1978



- 20 -                                                                            Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                              Page   3   of   5
NIQ!:  lie odusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
pop'ofied county' icaca  i group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends ox availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages fr Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
sirple poDulation-weigoted geometric mreans without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND ARcA fthosae   sc. La)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
cr - Toral '.'s',o          0 a n comprisiap land area and  inlani watecs.                 urban, and rural) divided by their respective nmaber of hospital beds
'orcul  '00lra]=   at s-       orfau-ti-te of agrirulturol area used temporarily            available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
ar ..cr                  pastures, r.atket and kitchen garden. or to                  habilitation centers.  Hlospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
1i, l   al' cw.at leant one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rgral hospitals, however, include health and medi-
i-- (:NP  pear-i-aca  at current market prices,              cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
alcu.lated  -y        -nM,   ,ccsioo I cu:ic   World Bank Atlas (197)-77 basis);         sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accoammodation and
lYtO, 1970, ad 1?77 Irta.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admsin   e   optlbd             - Tntal number of admissions to or discharges
iENERGY COS'LfMPiIoN YER CA,I'T' - Anrnal coonoaption of commercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(cool or.d  ''-or.e  p1c t-rln, natral gas and hydra-, nuclear and geo-
he-moal j-trity) in ki'lgrau.   f coal equivalent per capita.                        HOUSING
Average size of household (personsprhueod      oa,ubn   n  rural-
POPILATICN IAll VTAL ST'IIS                                                                  A houSehold consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total onpslat or,_mud-cur (illicos) - Au of July 1; If not available,                       and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
uo-ragc of two end-year eotimates; '96C,  9l70, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.   Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population  (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; d.ff-reat definitiao, of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of duta anovng cosntr_es.                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Gpculatian decoito                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude ncu-permanent structures and
Ter  sq. k. - Mid-year papulation per square kilor.etr (100 h-ect-re)                      unoccupied parts.
of total urea.                                                                          Access to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per an. 's. ugriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structore (percer.t) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-h4 ye-rs), and retired (hI years and suet) as percentages of mid-                EDC'CATION
year poplu'tion.                                                                      Ad1usted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percert) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populati-os for 1950-h0,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70. oan  1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual 'ive births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; fur countries with universal edu-
mid-yoar populatron; ten-year orithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment nay exceed 100 perceet since some pupils are below or
197D and five-year average ending in 1975 for most reent estimate.                        above the official school age.
Crude death coav  (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-your arithmetic averages ending in 196C and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average  -nding in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           video general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
5r0ss reprocu'tics rate - Average number of daughters a woman wi'l bear                     usually of 12 ts 17 years of age; corr-spoodence courses are generally
in oar  or.ocal caprodu-tive period if she e-poriences pr-eset age-                       exc.uded.
specific fertility  rates; usually five-year averages e.ding in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions ia-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           IIude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
ramily olasoing  - acoeptocal annual (thousando) - Annual uomber of                         or as departments of setondary institutions.
acreptors of birth-cantr-l devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondarv - Total students enrolled in
1l4oning pragran.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in thb carre-
Foiy planning- users (percent af oarried women) - Percentage of                             spanding levels.
married  -ones of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate  (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices ti  al married w-.es in sane age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FliD .A.N  NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUICTION
.den of food production per capita (1970=100) - Inde- number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food cormodities.                                      seating less thao eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed fron                   vehicles.
eorgy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies corpride domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unliceoned
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude ani.al feed, seeds,               receivers in ..untries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantitiea used in food processing, and losses in distribotion.  Re-                   effeot; data fer recent years may not be comparable mince most ocuntries
qoirenents were estimated bp FAD based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mol activity  and health cars.dering environmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (par thousand po.plation) - TV receivers for broadcastt o general
weights. age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand popslation; exciudes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
coot for wante at hounehold level.                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per   pi, ga pply oprtein (gramser day) - Protein contest of per                        Newspaper circul                                      - Shows the average oirculo-
cap'tu net supply of food par day.  let supply of food is defined as                      Lion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
olhoe.  Riq,i-e-ents for all coatcnies established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording ge-eral sews.  It is considered to
oa r. mum u'l-owance of 6h  grars cf total protein per day and 20 grams                  b  "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animol and pulue pratein, of which 1  groan should be animal protein.             Ci ..     aual  ttedance pe  capita per  vear - Dosed on the  un-ber of tickers
fIhco  stacdards ore lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                   soid during the year, inclading adm-sionos. to dri-e-in cinemas and mobile
23 grics of aoma1l 'tocoin as an average for the world, proposed by                      un_ts.
FAO ior  c- Th cid  FcPood Survey.
Per oap7 a prortei  auppl   con  animal and puiso - Prctein suppl  of food            EMPLPYMENIT
dercied from-aormal  and oulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - irononically active per-ors, insluding armed
Child (ages 1-) _ortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed bat exclLdoog housswives. studeots, e:t.  Defini-
ond in age group 1-4 yea, to children in rhiu age group.                                 tions in various countries are nor ctnparable.
Fena'e (percent) - Fe-ale labor forca as porcer-age of tolal labor for-e.
1FpMIf.                                                                                  Agriolture (pecrcenu  - Labor force in farming, fo-eutry, hunting and fishing
Lioe expe; ravcy at borti (ears) - Av.erage  anonbr of yearu of life                       as percentage of total labor force.
remote.ng at b rch; usually five-year averageo coding in 196f, 1970,                  Industry (pernent) - Labor force in misiog, cao-tractior, vanufacruriag aod
nc 19'5.                                                                                 electricity, water and gun as percentage of total labor force.
Infant vorta itv rate (perhousaod) - Annual deaths of infants under                     Participation rate (percent) - tctal, rale, and female - Total, male, and
one y-00 *f age per thousuad lIve birhts.                                                 female labor frc.e as perce-nageu of their respective porufationt.
wan    c  oecter _ cttomnt cppuoi)-toa,ra,anrral -TI-ie ar  ItO'  odj-red participation care  -cfle-itfsper--e
mers  or pop ae  _l  uban, and rural) with reasonable a cess to                         otr'srctre of th.e poplarioP.  codltore  rser trend.
safe water supply 'inclsins treated surface waters or untreated bat                   Pconomic doespenden  rotic - Rotio of population cnder 15 a,d h5 aod aver to
u-oortamnuted water  -u_} as t}at from  protected boreheles, oprings,                     the labor force in age group ot 15-6' year.
aod  -nicarur,  ellsj as pc-c-tagcn of their respective populatinos.
or ar. -1,-n areo public   orItain or utandpost 'located  ot more                    INCOME DISTRIBETION
thbo  li3 me2teu'ro frc   ouI e 0¶00 be coasidered as being within coo-               Percentage of private income (ban in rash and kind) received by richest 5
-eor.a lc aczess Dr zi.t   so--.  rr rural areas reosonable access -sld                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest -l percent
o        tr : trmbersco tIc household do not hove to         of  - househlds.
vpo.dof-'r ..t sos-u port of the cay in fetching the family's
un tee "000"                                                                         POVERIT  TARGEl C.ROt'PS
roe.ssE L    eta_disposal fAn cent ci  pp,latitonj - total, urhas, and    Estimated ahsolote povertv inceme level  1i1fper capita) - urben aci rural -
rua'  -uN-er ot people (o.l  urban, and rural) senved by eocreto                            Abuoluto po-ertv inacoe level in tcha  in-ome level below which a -niomo
*  csalous  a'-'r  "ccf 0  'oo  respective populaciosr.  Eic-eco                          -utrititnal'r adequate diet plus e--netal mn1 -food cev recrcs in 001
r includ   he co''o"tioa and dispoaul, with or without                      fforcable.
re. 'aret, o: s-uen exe-a - - d woste-water ho water-borne systems                   Esti.oted reattv  peverto  incone level fIl$ per cpit.a i - ua- and rur-o  -
;:r tl      of pit privi.s a- l Jm''ar -sctallations.                                 RlJatso- Pcert. incote loo1  i  that income level lane than one-thbrd
fq0__lao  or  u       in       op 'u   -a ocod by number of praoticing                      per capira persor,a  incee of the co-strv.
o  riae                  a near a d    fool ur uiocensiay level.                  Estimaied peculat_-  below poverty iocce level ,9feoec:  _  onbaor and oural -
~ppul ruse              0-on -  ?pIaticn divide  10 number of                            Perret ao  popular.oo  (urban and rural) who are eit.at  absrlute poor" or
lrL  sla.ea   graduate  oruc. , pr. cti-al nursen, und                 'r'elsrto- roor  unhichever is greaser.
as   -et I  e 
io-onmic and Social Data Diviaio,l
C:ron-t ic va-sfs srd ProOeottirs Ocpar-meet



- 21 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                                             ANNUAIL RATE OF GKTIT'N (%. CONSTANT PRICES)
US$ Million         %                                         1960-67                         1967-72                        1972-77
GNP at Market Prices          1,177.7          100.0                                          0.1                              1.9                          4a.
Gross Domestic Investment        207.2          17.6                                         -3.0                             18.5                         11.4
Gross National Saving  2/       106.9            9.1                                        -16.5                             23.4                         -4.3
Current Acunt Balac              32.0            2.7
Export of Goods,  eS            242.5           20.6                                         -2.2                             11.2                          5.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           335.8           28.5                                          0.2                             11.0                         11.9
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                                       Labor Force                                     V.A. per Worker
us$ Million                    %                            Mln.                    h
Agriculture                      447.5                      37.7
Industry  2/                      204. 2                    17.2
Seroices                          533.0                     45.1
Unallocated
(Manufacturing)                 (118.8)                     10.0
Total/Average            1,184.7                    100.0                                                  100.0                        ..                    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
4/
General Government                                                     Central Governeznt
(G Million)                 % of GDP                                (G Million)                    % of GDP
1917                1977              1976-77                       1977                1977              1976-77
Curreot Recoipts                                678.5  5/            11.5                11.4                        637.2                10.8                10.8
Current Expenditure                             648.9  6/            11.0               10.3                         648.9                11.0                10.3
Ctrrent Surplus/Deficit                          29.6                 0.5                1.1                         -11.7                -0.2                 0.5
Capital Expenditures                            534.7  7/             9.0                8.8                         352.9                 6.0                 6.2
External Assistance  (net)                      474.5  8/             8.0                7.2                         357.0                 6.0                 5.5
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1970        1971          1972         1973         1974         1975          1976         1977
(million G outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi M.oncy                                  198.2         251.2        322.7        410.2         532.5       597.6         800.5        958.3
Bank Credit to Psblic Sector  9/                        189.2         202.5        210.1        236.8         324.9       402.3         494.1        549.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                            65.3          78.5        110.4        188.1         328.8       477.6         549.8        682.1
(percentages    index nsmbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 7% of GDP                       10.0          11.3         13.6         14.4          15.3        14.5          15.8          16.2
General Price Index (1965 = 105)  iO/                   114.6         120.3        127.2        148.8         169.4       203.0         229.1        260.6
Annual Percentage Changes in
General Price Index                                       3.3           4.9          5.7         17.0         13.8         19.8          12.9         13.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector   9/                        -2.1           7.0          3.8         12.7         37.2         23.8          22.8         11.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                             9.9          20.2         40.6         70.4         74.8         45.3          15.1         24.1
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Dote refers to FY ending Septenber 30.
2/ Doeo not include current transfers;
3/ Mining, manufacturing, public utilities, construction.
4/ Consolidated accounts of Central Government and Public Enterprises
5/ Central Government total current -eveo... + operating surpluses of public enterpri-es
6/ Central Government total expenditure + capital expenditure of public enterprises + operating deficits of public enterprises - total public sector
development espendi tre
7/ Total public sector development expenditure (incl. technical assistance).
8/ Net disbursements of loans + grants.
9/ Includes IDB loans to the public sector channeled through the National Bank,
10/ GDP deflator.
Latin America sod the Coribbean
Country Progr-as I
December 5, 1978



- 22 -
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FL1MS   j/
bALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1974      1975        1976        1977                                                                              usl Million         7
(million of US$)
Coffee                                                          42.0           24.0
E.poersof Goods, NFS                                132.5      156.9      209.8       242.5                Sugar                                                             3.7            2.L
Imports of Goods, NFS                               169.8     209.4       272.3       335.8                Essential Oils                                                   6.5            3.7
Rosoarce Gap (dsficit   - )                         -37.3     -52.5       -62.5       -93.3                Sisal                                                             1.5            1.1
Ra...ite                                                        15.4            8.0
I-reocr P.ayme-ts (ner)                              -0.6       -1.3       -2.0        -2.4                Smal Indu-tris    d   an-dicft                                  19.4          35.1
(A.seibly Indosrt, nrt)                                       114.1)           (0.5)
othbs  Factor Paymerts (not)                         -5.3       -5.6       -5.2        -4.6                All Other Cteoadities                                            16.1            9.2
Net Trassfer-                                        26.9       39.4       65.0        68.3                              Total                                            175.0           100.0
Balasce of Crres-t Ancoast                          -16.3      -20.2       -4.7       -32.0
EXTERNAL DEBT. SEPTEMBER 30. 1977                           US$ Million
Direct Foreign Iovestomen                             7.9        2.6        5.0         3.0
Nrt MLT llrratsg                                                                                           Pablic Debt, inol. guara-nerd                                  151.4
Sishbrsect                                         10.9      23.9        39.7        61.9                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Asaortisadion                                       6.1       6.8         9.2        10.3                Total  uortstading and Diobarnod                               151.4
Subtotal                                            4.8       17.1       30.5        51.6
Othrr itms  .ei.                                   -15.6      -23.7      -11.0       -11.3
Increase in Reserves (+)                            -19.2     -24.2        19.8        11.3
Poblic  et   sl.gaate                                            5.1
Grosa Reserves  2/                                   14.7      12.7        28.3        35.9                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
NSt Reserves  2/                                     -0.6      24.8        -5.0         6.3                Total .Orsra.ding asd Disbarsed                                   .1
FGal asd Related MaterlsEs                                                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING. (SEPTEMBER 30. 1977) (MILLION Es$
Imports                                            12.4      12.9        17.1        20.3
Exports                                              -         -           -           -                                                                                 IBER           IRA
Oatstaeding a-d Disbursed                                         _373
Ulodisbarsd                                                       -24.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                           Ostetnding i-1. Undisb-rsed                                       _            61.9
Through  -  1971                     Sine  -  1971
US1.00 = S.00                        US$1.R0 = G5.00
G0.00 a US50.20                      G.00 = US$0.20
1/ Data -efers to fi1sal years coding September 30.
2/  Sepreeber 30.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service in Foreign Currenoy a-d Goods to Noporta cf Goods and Nos-Factor Services.
-nt available
son applicable
-om  Amerion snd the Cnritbe-n
Country Frogm   I
tecetber 5, 197S



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1979)
-------US$ Million-------
Loan or                                                      (less cancellations)
Credit                                                    Bank
Number    Year         Borrower             Purpose      Amount  IDA  Undisbursed
One loan and two credits have been fully disbursed        2.6  16.40
478-HA    1974    Republic of Haiti    Highway                   10.0      0.0 2/
556-HA    1975    Republic of Haiti    Highway                  20.0        .6
618-HA    1976    Republic of Haiti    Education                 5.5       3.6
675-HA    1977    Republic of Haiti    Rural
Development           10.0       9.5
757-HA    1978    Republic of Haiti    Water Supply               6.6      6.6
770-HA    1978    Republic of Haiti    Education                10.0      10.0
807-HA    1978    Republic of Haiti    Transportation            15.0     15.0
Total                                   2.6  93.5      45.3
of which has been repaid              2.6
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                             0.4
of which has been repaid              0.4   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                93.5 1/
Total undisbursed                                      45.3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1979)
No IFC investments have been made in Haiti.
1/   Prior to exchar-ge adjustments.
2/   Fully disbursed in March 1979.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 478     Third Highway Project; US$10 Million Credit of June 6, 1974,
amended on November 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
and             September 9, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31, 1977, postponed
to March 31, 1979.
Credit 556      Fourth Highway Project; US$20 Million Credit of June 11, 1975;
Effective Date: October 8, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1978, postponed to May 31, 1979.
The project for the reconstruction of the Northern Road,
linking Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien, has been completed
including some repairs and reinforcement of paving. Only
painting of road markings is incomplete, delayed by a lack
of paint. The Closing Dates of this Credit has been postponed
to May 31, 1979 to allow final disbursements to be made.
Credit 618      First Education Prolect; US$5.5 Million Credit of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: May 20. 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is about five months behind schedule, but is
expected to be completed by the Closing Date. Eighteen schools
are already in operation and another 20 will begin operations
in January 1979. Curriculum development, teacher training and
technical assistance are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 675     Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit of January 14,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 27. 1977; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981.
The project is about a year behind schedule because of initial
organizational problems and the delayed arrival of part of the
technical assistance team. In addition, the weakness of
regional services, such as those for road construction and
animal health, has compelled ODN, the project agency, to
undertake work that it was meant only to coordinate. On the
other hand, the agricultural component, including field trials,
extension and community development, is proceeding well.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Credit 757      Provincial Towns Water Supply Project; US$6.6 Million Credit
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 14. 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is about a year behind scbedule because of delays in
the selection of consultants that were appointed in November
1978. Technical assistance from the Pan American Health Orga-
nization began on schedule. The UNCDF-financed project for three
provincial towns, which the Association is administering, has
been similarly delayed.
Credit 770      Second Education Project; US$10 Million Credit of March 17, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: July 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Design work for project schools began in January 1979. The
firm selected to carry out an evaluation study of educational
systems has sent its draft final contract to the Project Unit
for approval. A new curriculum has been introduced experimen-
tally in schools operating under Credit 618-HA.
Credit 807      Fifth Transportation Project; US$15 Million Credit of June 9,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 26. 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
(a) Road Component: Bids were received in November 1978,
substantially within appraisal estimates, and work
started early in 1979;
(b) Pilot Ports Component: Bids from pre-qualified con-
tractors were received in December 1978 and a contract
within the appraisal estimate was signed with a con-
tractor in February 1979.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI - SECOND POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to IDA:         August 1977
(b)  First IDA mission to identify
and prepare the project:           November 1977
(c) Completion of feasibility
study:                             May 1978
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  June 7, 1978
(e) Cofinancing discussions with
CIDA (Canada):                     October 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations:        February 9, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:   July 1979
1I.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III.   Special Conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and of the
Special Action Credit Agreement
Agreement was reached with the Government and EdH regarding:
(a)  EdH would at all times cause the positions of General Manager,
Technical Director, Planning and Dispatch Director and
Administrative Director to be filled with persons whose
qualifications are satisfactory to the Association,  and it
would set up a coordinating committee for the project and
appoint a project coordinator (paragraphs 27, 44);
(b) EdH would carry out a review of its regional operations and
organization, submit recommendations thereon no later than
December 31, 1979, for the Association's review and subsequently
implement such recommendations (paragraph 27);
(c) A concurrent program for the renewal of the networks of EdH,
TELECO and TeleHaiti would be carried out and EDH would carry
out a program to reduce power losses (paragraphs 34, 48);



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The proceeds of the IDA Credit and of the Special Action Credit
would, except for funds required for studies of the Peligre
Dam, be onlent by the Government to EdH under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement satisfactory to the Association, the execution of
which would be an additional condition of effectiveness
(paragraph 59);
(e)  EdH would not, without the Association's prior consent, incur
long term debt unless internal cash generation covers maximum
debt service 1.5 times and it would not carry out investments,
costing more than 1 percent of net fixed assets in operation
for any one project, without the prior consent of the Association
(paragraphs 49, 52);
(f) The Borrower would provide for the prompt settlement of
public sector electricity bills and it would assume the
debt incurred by EdH for the construction of the Peligre
Dam (paragraph 50);
(g)  EdH would set tariffs at levels sufficient to earn rates of
return on annually revalued fixed assets of 7 percent in 1979;
7.5 percent in 1980 and 8 percent in 1981 and thereafter
(paragraph 51);
(h)  EdH's resources would only be used for the financing of its
investment program, its operational expenses and for the
service of its debt (paragraph 51);
(i)  EdH would, with the help of consultants, develop and implement
internal audit, financial planning and management reporting
procedures (paragraph 53);
(j) A further additional condition of effectiveness would be that
the CIDA Grant Agreement had been executed and delivered, and
that all conditions precedent to the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals thereunder, had been met (paragraph 59).



- 28 -
ANNEX IV
HAITI: GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS FROM OFFICIAL SOURCES BY SECTOR
1970-1978
(US$ millions)
Other
Multilateral  Bilateral        Total
IDA    IDB   Agencies /1  Agencies  Absolute Percent
Agriculture                      10.0    8.4       22.2          63.3     103.9      22.5
Industry/Mining                    -      4.8      3.0            1.7       9.5       2.1
Power/Energy                     16.0      -        3.5           9.3      28.8       6.2
Transport/Telecommunication    45.0   71.7          2.0          25.9     144.6      31.4
Water Supply/Health
Nutrition/Family Planning         6.6   14.7        9.1          13.7      44.1       9.6
Education                        15.5   10.6       4.1           10.9      41.1       8.9
Housing, Social Affairs
and Community Development         -       -       4.7           15.2      19.9       4.3
Other /2                           -       -        7.7          61.6      69.3      15.0
TOTAL                            93.1  110.2      56.3         201.6      461.2 /3 100.0
/1   UN system and OPEC.
/2   Including general budgetary and food aid.
/3   Of which $165.8 million estimated to be in grants.



TORTUE
41~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
~~:r300S~~   C:~~7.    0   ~ j- ½   007    ARC/C  57000                                  -                 ('pa                                                                               oooooo~~~~~.soo,oro;~~i~   -  -       7L0
~~~~  004101000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~a
ao   o;~~~~~~~~~~osuc  {. ~    ~           ~           ~           M-ICINS D.
14      ETRC3E S1                         740~dH
L 010,,.65040N0 ONW3D001
HAITI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAII OLN11
S       ACNDPOWETROAD          JEC
ELECRAVEL  RODSIAT  (,H-
DENEARAT ENTCRIOTNDAR F
SIOU"ARFES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OSO00IN .00W                       '3
0004573                                        0074023000020 2000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*  Sf30 03075700 ~ ~    ~          ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         r NA
OX3STING~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7007  007 5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ILA O-
KILCIMET5RS
Some- 100,    M.                                                                                                                                                                  _-..-- RTAU-                                          S ,, o  j.o   '".0.
~~~~~~~~~~-~~V~    -dA.                                                                                                                                                                                             C
Cao~p Perrn  0,7,03,,    I            -
53 o 3 do 50,73
ig-   14"30                                                               113G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.00~



