CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 895 HA
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 4 HA
Joint Projeet Agreement
(Second Power Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
and
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI
Dated May 31, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 895 HA
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 4 HA
JOINT PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 1979, between INT1 RNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter  called the Asbociation),
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT established with the   funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY (hereinafter
called the Administrator), and ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (hereinafter
called EdH).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the IDA Credit Agreement) between
Republic of Haiti (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen
million five hundred thousand dollars ($16,500,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the IDA Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that EdH agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Special Action Credit Agreement of even date
herewith (hereinafter called the Special Action Credit Agreement)
between the Borrower and the Administrator, the Administrator has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000) (herein-
after called the Special Action Credit), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Special Action Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that EdH agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Administrator as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EdH, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the IDA Credit Agreement and the proceeds of the special
action credit provided for under the Special Action Credit
Agreement will be made available to EdH on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS EdH, in consideration of the Association's and
the Administrator's entering into the IDA Credit Agreement and the
Special Action Credit Agreement, respectively, with the Borrower,
EdH has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
f or th;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitione
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the IDA Credit Agreement, in the Special Action Credit Agreement,
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have theorespective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EdH shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreement and in Schedule 2 to the
Special Action Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with 'appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering and public utilities practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist EdH in the carrying
out of detailed engineering and the preparation of bidding docu-
ments for, and supervision of the execution of, Parts (A) (i) and
(ii), (B) (iv) and (v) and (C) (i) of the Project, EdH shall
continue to employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association and the Administrator.
(b) In order to assist EdH in the preparation of a pre-
liminary design for its new head office building, EdH shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association
and the Administrator, and shall cause said preliminary design to
be completed not later than June 30, 1980.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Special
Action Credit shallobe governed by the provisions of the .Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) EdH undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special Action Credit
relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the


﻿-3-
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by EdH to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Administrator may
otherwise agree, EdH shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special Action Credit
relent to it by the.Borrc.wer to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. EdH shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the construction (and operation) of the facilities included
in the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) EdH shall furnish to the Association
and the Administrator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Associa-
tion or the Administrator shall reasonably request.
(b) EdH: () shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Special Action Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and the Administra-
tor's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Special
Action Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association and the Administrator at regular
intervals eall such information as the Association or the Adminis-
trator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between EdH, the
Association and the Administrator, Edh shall prepare and furnish


﻿to the Association and the Administrator a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association or the Administrator shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by EdH, the Association and the Administrator
of their respective obligations under the Joint Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the
Special Action Credit.,
(d) EdH shall enable the Association's and the Admini-
strator's representatives to examine all plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of EdH and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. EdH, shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, EdH shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) EdH shall, at the request of the Associ-
ation and the Administrator, exchange views with the Association
and the Administrator with regard to the progress of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit and the Special Action Credit.
(b) EdH shall promptly inform the Association and the
Administrator of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit and the Special Action Credit, or the
performance by EdH of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) For the purpose of overall coordination
in the carrying out of the Project, EdH shall establish a coordi-
nation committee to be chaired by EdH's Director of Planning and
Dispatch. The committee shall include the Director of EdH's
Technical Department, the chiefs of missions of the consultants
employed under the Project, and the chief of the planning section
to be appointed pursuant to Sub-section (b) of this Section.
(b) EdH shall, not later than October 1, 1979, establish
a planning section within its Department of Planning and Dispatch,
Alp,5


﻿5-
and shall employ an appropriately qualified person to serve as the
chief of said section and as coordinator of the Project.
Section 2.10. EdH shall carry out a program satisfactory to
the Association and the Administrator for the. training of EdH
staff in the fields oft (i) planning, (ii) standardization of
materials, equipment, design and work rules; (iii) computer
programming and operation; and (iv) power Operation and load
management.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EdH
Section 3.01. (a) EdH shall at all times carry out its
operations, manage its affairs, plan its future expansion and
maintain its financial position in accordance with appropriate
engineering, business, .financial and public utility principles
and practices and under the supervision of experienced and com-
petent management, assisted by qualified and competent staff
in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of Sub-section
(a) of this Section, EdH shall cause the positions of General
Manager, Technical Director, Planning and Dispatch Director and
Administrative Director to be filled at all times with competent
and experienced persons whose qualifications shall be satisfactory
to the Borrower, the Association, the Administrator and EdH.
Section 3.02. EdH shall take all measures required to system-
atically reduce losses of electricity pursuant to targets estab-
lished. in consultation with the Association and the Administrator
and shall monitor decreases in such losses.
Section 3.03, EdH shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association and the Administrator for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.04 (a) In order to assist EdH in the management
of its affairs and in tho carrying out of its operations, EdH
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association and the Administrator.


﻿IN AW
-6-
(b) EdH shall carry out, with the assistance of the consul-
tants referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and under
terms of reference which shall have been approved by the Associ-
ation and the Administrator, a study of its manpower requirements
through 1985, and shall furnish said study to the Association and
the Administrator not later than December 31, 1979.
Section 3.05. (a) EdH shall operate and maintain its plants,
equipment and property, and from time to time make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof, 4Jni accordance with appropriate
engineering and public utility practices.
(b) Except as the Association and, the Administrator shall
otherwise agree, EdH shall not sell, lease, transfer, assign or
otherwise dispose of any of its rights, property or assets except
in the ordinary course of business.
Section 3.06. EdH shall: (i) carry out a study of the organ-
ization of its regional operations; (ii) furnish to the Associ-
ation and the Administrator, not later than December 31, 1979, the
findings and recommendations thereof; and (iii) thereafter imple-
ment such recommendations as shall be acceptable to EdH, the
Association and the Administrator.
Section 3.07. In order to strengthen its financial planning
and improve management reporting and internal contiol system,
EdH shall: (i) employ, not later than September 30, 1979, consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and the
Administrator to study its existing procedures pertaining to the
foregoing, to make recommendations on the measures required for
the improvement thereof and to formulate internal auditing proce-
dures; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Administrator
the aforementioned recommendations and proposed internal auditing
procedures; and (iii) put into effect, not later than March 31,
1980, such recommendations and internal auditing procedures as
shall be agreed between EdH, the Association and the Admini-
strator.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. EdH shall.maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
A


﻿N          .
-7-
Section 4.02. EdH shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements), for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associatioti and the Admin-
istrator; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Administrator as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association or the Administrator shall have reason-
ably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association and the
Administrator such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of EdH and the audit thereof as the Associa-
tion or the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association and the Admin-
istrator shall otherwise agree, EdH shall from time to time take
all steps necessary or desirable to obtain such adjustments in its
power tariffs, as shall be required to earn an annual rate of
return at least of seven per cent (7%) in fiscal year 1979, seven
and one-half per cent (7-1/2%) in fiscal year 1980 and eight per
cent (8%) in fiscal year 1981 and thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated
in respect of each fiscal year by relating the
net operating revenue for that year to the average
of the net value of fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term "net operating revenue" means gross
operating revenues less operating and admini-
strative expenses, including adequate maintenance,
straightline depreciation based on the useful life
of assets and taxes, if any, but excluding interest
and other charges on debt; and
(iii) the"term "net yalue of fixed assets in operation"
means the gross value of fixed assets in operation
less ,the related accumulated depreciation, all
as revalued in accordance with Section 4.04 of this
Agreement.
IN


﻿-8-
Section 4.04. Except as the Association and the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, EdH shall: (a) revalue its fixed assets
annually, to such extent as shall be necessary to reflect
adequately, at the time of each such revaluation, the current
value .thereof, "in accordance with a sound and consistently applied
method of valuation acdeptable to the Association and the Admini-
strator; and (b) register, annually, the result of such revalu-
ation on its books.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association and the Administrator
shall otherwise agree, EdH shall not incur:
(a) any long-term debt, unless its internally generated
funds for the fiscal year next preceding such iLicurrence or
for a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the
maximum long-term debt service requirements for any succeeding
fiscal year on all long-term debt of EdH (including the long-term
debt to be incurred). For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "long-term debt" means all indebtedness
of EdH maturing by its terms one year or more
after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) the term "internally generated funds" means the
j    aggregate revenues from all sources, adjusted
to take account of EdH's power tariffs in effect
at the time of incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the twelve conse-
cutive months to which such revenues related, less
operating and administrative expenses, including
adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation and. interest and other
charges on long-term debt; and
(iii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
ing fund payments, if any), interest and other
charges in respect of debt.
(b) any short-term debt, unless the aggregate of all short-
term debt incurred by EdH, including the short-term debt to
be incurred, is equal to or less than one-sixth (1/6) of the
operating, maintenance and administrative expenses (excluding


﻿-9-
depreciation and other non-cash provisions) of EdH for the twelve-
month period preceding such incurrence. For the purpose of this
paragraph, the term "short-term debt" means all debt of EdH for
money borrowed, including bank overdrafts, maturing by its terms
on demand or less than one year after the date on which it was
incurred.
For the purposes of this Section, debt shall be deemied
to be incurred on the date of execution and delivery of a
contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt; provided, however, that in the case of guarantee of debt,
debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the day the agreement
guaranteeing such debt has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
Section 4.06. (a) EdH shall not undertake, prior to the
completion of the Project, any investment in the power sector
exceeding the equivalent of one per cent (1%) of the net value of
EdH's fixed assets in operation without the Association's and
the Administrator's prior approval.
(b) For the purpose of Sub-section (a) of this Section, the
term "net value of fixed assets in operation" means the gross
value of fixed assets in operation less the related accumulated
depreciation, all as revalued -in accordance with Section 4.04 of
this Agreement.
Section 4.07.. EdH undertakes not to use its resources for
any purpose other than the financing of its investment program,
its operational expenses and for the servicing of its debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the IDA Credit Agreement and the
Special Action Credit Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association, of the Administrator and of EdH thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following dates:


﻿i-I
-10-
(i) the date on which the IDA Credit Agreement or
the Special Action Credit Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms, whichever shall
be the later;
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b)  If the IDA Credit Agreement or the Special Action
Credit Agreement terminatel in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association or the Administrator, as the case may be, shall
promptly notify EdH of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.Ci                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For EdH:
Electricité d'Haiti
Port-au-Prince
Botte Postale D
Haiti
Cable address:                      Telex:
ELECDHA                            3490113
Port-au-Prince
Section 6.02. Any action required or,permitted to be taken,
and an' document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of EdH may be taken or executed by its
General Manager or such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing, and EdH shall furnish to the
Association and the Administrator sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of whith shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEXEOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, haye caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- ).
- 12 -
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
-first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By s/ Nicolgs Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ADMINISTRATOR OF THE SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
By /s/ Nicolgs Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin Ainerica and the Caribbean
(b
ELECTRICITE DHAITI
By /s/ Emmanuel Bros
Authorized Representative
á -


﻿-~13-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof: (i) goods and civil
works to be financed out of the proceeds qf the IDA Credit
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA CredIts" published by
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines; and (ii) goods and civil works to be financed out of
the Special Action Credit shall, subject to the eligibility
limitations and restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 of the
Special Action Credit Agreement, be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, EdH shall prepare and forward to
the Association and the Administrator as soon as possible, _nd in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association or the Administrator shall reasonably request; the
Association and the Administrator will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. EdH shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to EdH of inland freight and other
.........


﻿-14-
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Haiti may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Haiti if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of EdH, the Association and the
Administrator that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Haiti equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids ofie-Ang goods manufactured
in Haiti.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4e If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
AW


﻿- 15 -
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparlson only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected'.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (3) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, EdH may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classifi/:ation established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by EdH, responsive
bids will be.classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by 'domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for: (i) substation equipment under Part (B) (i)
of the Project costing in the aggregate the equivalent of $800,000


﻿-16-
or less; (ii) power and control panels for the three diesel
units provided under Part (A) (i) of the Project costing the
equivalent of $750,000 or less; (iii) telecommunications equipment
under Part (B) (v) of the Project costing in the aggregate the
equivalent of $500,000 or less; and (iv) protection equipment
under Part (B) (vi) of the Project costing in the aggregate the
equivalent of $200,000 or less, may be negotiated with the
original suppliers of existing equipment, provided that all terms
and conditions of the contract are satisfactory to the Association
and the Administrator.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
and the Administrator
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and equipment
(except contracts referred to in Part D of this Schedule) esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, EdH shall furnish to the
Association and the Administrator, for their comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi-
cations in the said documents or procedures as the Association,or
the Administrator shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Association's and
the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, EdH shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion and the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association
and the Administrator, in sufficient time for their review, a
detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02
(a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the
said consultants and such other information as the Association or
the Administrator shall reasonably request. The Association and
the Administrator shall, if they determine that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform EdH and state the reasons for such determination.,


﻿-17-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's and the Administrator's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids were asked or prequali-
fication invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association and the Administrator promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association and the
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, EdH shall furnish to the Association and the Admin-
istrator, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Association and the Administrator of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association or the Administrator
shall reasonably request. The Association and the Administrator
shall, if they determine that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
EdH and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than $50,000 above the original price, EdH sha l1 inform
the Association and the Administrator of the proposed modifi-
cation, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons there-
for. The Association and the Administrator, if they determine that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform EdH and state the reasons for its
determination. Any modification, waiver, extension or change order
shall be sequentially numbered and each subsequent change order
shall indicate the total contract price as agreed under the
previous change order, the details of the agreed change in
contract price (if any) under the change order and the total
revised price resulting therefrom.
z~.2


