u5
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 895 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
4t
ej
Dated May 31, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 895 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.),
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association,
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreem4nt by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter        /
called the Special Action Credit Agreement) between the Borrower
and the Association as Administrator of the Special Action Account
established with funds contributed by the Member States of the
GI
'.European Economic C6mmunity (hereinafter called the Admini-
strater), the Administrator has agreed to make a special action
credit (hereinafter called the Special Action Credit) to the
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount i(a various currencies
equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,(60b) to assist in the
financing of the Project, on the terms and conditions therein set
forth;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Canadian
International Development Agency (hereinafter called CIDA) a grant
in an amount of seventeen million one hundred thousand Canadian
dollars (Can$17,100,000) (hereinafter called the CIDA Grant) to
assist in the financing of the"Project, on the terms and conditions
set forth in a Grant Agreement (hereinafter called, the CIDA Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CIDA;
(D) the, Project will be carried out by Electricitg d'Haiti
with the Borrower 's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Electricite d'Haiti the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(E) the Association, the Administrator and Electricit6
d'Haiti have entered into an agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter called the Joint Project Agreement) providing for the
use of the Credit and of the Special Action Credit and execution
of the Project as well as other matters relating thereto;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
f  /


﻿-2-
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Joint
Project Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect- as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).                    f
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the           a
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have6,
the respective meahings therein set forth and the foll6wing
additional terms have the following Ineanings:
(a) "EdH" means Electricite d'Haiti, an autonomous agency
of the Borrower established by, and operating under the Borrower's
LoiCadre dated July 29, 1971, as amended by the Decree dated
April 9, 1977 and published in the Moniteur on June 16, 1977;
(b) "Joint Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Asfociation, the Administrator and EdH of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Joint Project Agreement and all
agreements supplementa, lthereto;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and EdH pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
a (d) "First Credit Agreement" means the Development Ciedit
Agreement (Power Project) dated July 2, 1976, between the Associ-
ation and the Borrower as the same may be amended from time to
time.-
ft0


﻿-3
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to, the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to sixteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($16,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule, 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to ,time by agreement" between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, kor expenditures made (or, if the Associatidn shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Joint Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per ahnum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07., The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1989, and ending
February 15, 2029, each installment to and including the install-
ment   payable dn February 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
T'I.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The General Manager of EdH is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause EdH to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Joint Project Agreement and the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement 'all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable EdH to perform such (bligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
(except those allocated under Category (6) of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) to EdH under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and EdH under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association including the following principal terms and
conditions:
(i) the principal amount of the loan repayable by EdH
shall be the equivalent (determined as of the date,
or respective dates, of repayment) of the value of
the currency or currencies withdrawn from the
Credit Account expressed in terms of United States
dollars at the time of withdrawal from the Credit
Account;
(ii) the loan will be repaid by EdH to the Borrower in
thirty-two semiannual installments over twenty
years (including four years of grace); and


﻿-5-
(iii) interest shall be charged at the rate of eight
per cent (8%) per annum on the outstanding balance
of the loan.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Lodn Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of i the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shll,cause EdH to carry out the
study included in Part E of the Project under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association and to furnish to the Associ-
ation the findings and recommendations thereof not later than
December 31, 1979.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 401. (a) The Borrower shall not undertake, or 0ermit
EdH to undertake, prior to the completion of the Project, any
investment in the power sector exceeding the equivalent of one per
cent (1%) of the net value of EdH's fixed assets in operation
without the Association's prior approval.
(b) For the purpose of Sub-section (a) above, the term "net
value of fixed assets in operation" means the gross value of fixed
assets in operation less the related accumulated depreciation, all
as revalued in accordance with Section 4.04 of the Joint Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, from time to time, take all steps
necessary or desirable (including but not limited to adjustments
of EdH's tariffs) to enable EdH to earn the annual rate of return
specified in Section 4.03 of the Joint Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
on its part to ensure that electricity bills owed EdH by the
Borrower's departments and agencies are settled and paid in time
under arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and. the Associ-
atione


﻿-6-
Section 4.04. In order to ensure the timely execution of
Part (C) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) cause Telecom-
munications d'Haiti S.A.M.(Teleco) and Tele Haiti to rehabilitate,
respectively, the sections of the telephone and television
networks in Port-au-Prince utilizing EdH's power distribution
facilities to be rehabilitated under the Project; (ii) provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly)as needed all the funds required by
Teleco for that purpose; and (iii) cause Tele Haiti to provide
promptly as needed all the funds required for that purpose.
Section 4.05. The Borrower undertakes to assume the debt
incurred by EdH from the Borrower's Office Nationale d'Assurance
for the financing of the Peligre hydro station.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, under arrangements satis-
factory to the Association and on the basis of the findings and
recommendations of the study to be carried out pursuant to Section
3.02 of this Agreement, cause the Peligre dam, reservoir banks,
waterways and associated structures to be annually inspected in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices in order to
determine whether there are any deficiencies or potential defi-
ciencies in their condition or in the quality or adequacy of their
maintenance or the methods of their operation which may endanger
their safety, and, in the event that any such deficiency or
potential deficiency is discovered, the Borrower shall promptly
take all steps required to correct such deficiency or to eliminate
such potential deficiency.
Section 4.07. The Borrbwer shall take all measures necessary
on its part to ensure that-EdH shall not use its resources for any
purpose other than the financing of its investment program and its
ope,a tional expenses and for the servicing of its debt.
ARTICLE V
Amendment of First Credit Agreement
Section 5.01. (a) The text of Section 4.02 of the First
Credit A&eement is hereby substituted by the text of Section 4.01
of this Agreement.
(b) The amendment specified in Sub-section (a) above shall
apply as of the Borrower's fiscal year 1979/1980.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) EdH shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of EdH under the Joint Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that EdH will be able to perform its obli-
gations under the Joint Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution of EdH or for the
suspension of its operations;
(d) the Decree dated April 9, 1977 referred to in Section
1.02 (a) of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of EdH to carry out the covenants,,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Joint Project Agree-
ment; and
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CIDA Grant or the Special
Action Credit shall have been suspended,
cancelled OP terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to -the terms of the CIDA Grant
Agreement, or the Special Action Credit
Agreement, respectively; or
(B) the Special Action Credit has become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to,the Borrower


﻿-8-
or EdH from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and, of EdH under the Joint
Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragrapiD (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower andEdi; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) (i)
(B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) Of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EdH;
(b) the CIDA Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right
to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Action Credit Agreement, except only the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The following aro specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Asspciation:
(a) that the Joint Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by EdH, and is legally binding upon EdH in
accordance with its terms; and
0W1


﻿9
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and EdH and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and EdH In accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date August, 31, 1979 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (b) of
Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall°,cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the 'arlier..
ARTICLE VIII
ORepresentative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of State for Finance and Economic
Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
,orrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
Ions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secrétairerie d'Etat des,Finances
et des Affaires Economique
Palais des Finances
Port-au-Prince
Haiti      a,
Cable address:
Secrétairerie d'Etat
des Finances et des
Affaires Economique
Port-au-Prince
Haiti


﻿For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 R Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable acdress:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C41                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the ,parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and yea/
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
jil
By ls/ Emmanuel Bros
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By ls/ Nicolås Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Ä1


﻿-. 11  -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percent,age of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expreäped in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Eqäuvalent)    to be Financed
(1) Four diesel units            8,200,000        100% of foreign
and ancillary works                          expenditures
and services under
Part (A) (i) and
(ii) of the Project
(2) Materials and equip-         3,800,000        100% of foreign
ment for Parts (B)                           expenditures
(iv), (v) and (vi)
and (C) (1) of
the Project
(3) Civil works for                200,000        50%
Parts (A) (i) and
(ii), (B) (iv) and
(C) (i),of the
Project
(4) Consultants' services        2,300,000        100% of foreign
for design and super-                        expenditures
visionand for Part
(D) (i) of the Project
(5) Training under Part            300,000        100% of foreign
(D) (11) of the Proj-                        expenditures
ect
(6), Study under Part (E)          450,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                               expenditures
(7) Unallocated                  1,250,000
T0,AL      16,500,000
4


﻿-12-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that nb proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the/ amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to 'be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this - Agreement, except that: (i)
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $600,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for expenditures on account of Part (A) (ii) of the
Project; and (ii) withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $500,000 may be made in respect of Category (4)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after June 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall,' proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
V.  -o.


﻿-13-
th orocedures set cforth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenritures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or temedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cargcel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceedå of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
11
SCHEDUt E 2
Doscription of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part (A)
(1) The ex'ansion of the Varreux Power Station in Port-au-
Prince by the addition of three diesel units with a
total capacity of about 22 MW;
(ii) the provision of four diesel units with a total capäcity
of about 3400 kW for the new power station at Cap
Haitien;
(iii) coristruction of a power station at Port-de-Paix includ-
ing four diesel units with a total capacity of about
1 MW;
(iv) construction of a power station at Miragoane including
two diesel units with a total capacity of about 250 kW;
and
(v) associated ancillary works and services for Part (A)
(i) to (A) (iv) above.
(3
Part (B):
(i) The expansion of two 115/69 kV and five 69 kV sub-
stations in"the Port-au-Prince area;
(ii) the construction and equipping of three 69 kV substa-
tions at Petionville, Carrefour and Croix-des Bouquets;
(iii) the construction of about 27 km of 69 kV lines in the
Port-au-Prince area;
(iv) the expansion of the Varreux Substation at "Port-au-
Prince;
(v) the provision of telecommunication equipment, network
and workshop tools and equipment and utility vehicles;
and


﻿j                               - 15 -
(vi) ancillary equipment and works for Part (B) (1) to (B)
(v) above.
Part (C):
(1) The rehabilitation of about 30% of the distribution
network in Port-au-Prince; and
(ii) the renovation and expansion of the distribution
networks at Port-de-Paix (about 16 km of lines and
300 kVA in transformer capacity); Miragoane (about
18 km of lines and 275 kVA in transformer capacity); and
Les Cayes (about 10 km of lines and 600 kVA in trans-
former capacity)
Part (D)
(i) The provision of consultants' and expert s' services
to assist in, and carry out studies related to, the
Project and to the management and operations of EdH,
to assist in the training of its staff, and in the
preparation of a preliminary design of a new head office
building for EdH; and
(1) the carrying out of a program for the trainihg of
EdH's staff.
Part (E):
The carrying out of a study to determine the proper mainten-
ance and monitoring procedures of the Peligre dam.
*            *             *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 1982.
*                                                                       r


