Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16850-YEM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 18, 1997
Rural Development, Water and Environment Departnent
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY
Yemeni Rials 125 = US$1
(at June 1, 1997)
ABBREVIATIONS
BDA            Business Development Advisors
CACB           Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CAS            The Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR           Country Portfolio Performance Review
EIRR           Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIAHS          Fund for Innovative Approach in Human and Social Development
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOY            Government of Yemen
GTZ            German Technical Cooperation
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
IU             Irrigation Unit
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MAWR           Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
MENA           Middle East and North Africa
MIS            Management Information System
MOPD           Ministry of Planning and Development
MSE            Micro and Small Enterprises
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NWRA           National Water Resources Authority
OC             Operations Committee
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
PDC            Participatory Development Coordinators
PDRY           People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PHRD           Policy and Human Resource Development (Japanese grant)
PMU            Project Management Unit
PNA            Participatory Needs Assessment
ROY            Republic of Yemen
SDR            Special Drawing Right
SFD            Social Fund for Development
US$            United States dollar
VTC            Vocational Training Center
WHADP          Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
WID            Women in Development
WUA            Water Users Association
YAR            Yemen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Vice President  :  Kemal Dervis
Country Director:  Inder Sud
Sector Director :  Salah Darghouth
Task Team        Christopher Ward, Task Manager
Usaid El-Hanbali
Srish Kumar
Michael Cernea



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter                                                                            Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ........................................................................  i-iv
. BACKGROUND   . .
A. Socio-Economic and Sectoral Background .1
B. The Poverty Challenge                          .2
C. The Country Assistance Strategy and Lessons from IDA Lending Experience.      3
D. Project Area                              .5
I.     THE   PROJECT   .................................................................................................................. 5
A. Preparation and Design                         .5
B. Project Objectives and Target Group                  .7
C. Project Description                          .8
D. Project Costs and Financing ......................                           10
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    ..11
A. Project Management Arangements .11
B. Procurement .15
C. Disbursements, Accounting and Audits .17
D. Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation .18
E. Cost Recovery .19
F. Project Sustainability .19
IV. BENEFITS, RISKS AND IMPACTS    ..20
A. Benefits .20
B. Economic and Financial Evaluation .20
C. Risks and Issues .21
D. Social Impact .24
E. Environmental Impact .25
V.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .. 26
A. Conditions of Negotiations .26
B. Assurances Received at Negotiations .26



Page No.
TABLES
Table 2.1:    Inflation Rates Used ............................................................    0
Table 2.2:    Project Cost Summary ...........................................................  10
Table 2.3:    Financing Plan ...........................................................   11
Table 3.1:  Amount and Methods of Procurement .16
Table 3.2:  Disbursements by Category.17
ANNEXES
Annex 1:       Detailed Project Description and Project Design Summary
Annex 2:       Implementation Schedule
Annex 3:       Economic Analysis
Annex 4:       Procurement Plan
Annex 5:       Implementation at the Community Level
Annex 6:       Project Costs and Financing
Annex 7:       Summary of Staff and Equipment
Annex 8:       Proposed Sites for Development and Rehabilitation
Annex 9:       Number of Beneficiaries
Annex 10:       Supervision Plan
Annex 11:       Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS:         IBRD 28574
IBRD 28575
IBRD 28576
IBRD 28577



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATESi RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower                           Republic of Yemen
Implementing Agency                The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
Beneficiaries                      Poor rural families and communities in four southern
govemorates
Credit Amount                   :  SDR 17.7 million (US$24.7 million equivalent)
Terms                              Standard IDA terms with 40-year maturity, including
10 years of grace period
Commitment Fee                  :  Standard
Project Objectives                 Within the overall CAS objective of social protection,
the specific development objectives of the project are:
(i) to raise the incomes of very poor rural individuals
and their families (50-60,000 people) in the southern
govemorates of Yemen sustainably above the poverty
level; (ii) to promote overall economic and social
development in the approximately 40 extended rural
communities (up to about 150,000 people in total,
including those already benefiting under (i)) in which
the target population reside and in which there is a
very high concentration of poor people; and (iii) to
test innovations regarding the involvement of
beneficiaries in planning and implementation and
regarding a business approach to project management.
Project Description             :  Project components are: (i) land allocation and
development or rehabilitation on about 3,900 ha;
(ii) off-farm   income   development   activities;
(iii) economic and social development activities in
approximately   40    extended    communities;
(iv) preparation of future projects in the sector; and
(v) operation of a project management unit.
Environment                     :  The Project has been classified as a Category B for the
purpose of O.D. 4.01. The principal environment risks
are: groundwater overdraft or contamination, which
would be avoided by monitoring, management and high
technical specifications; and soil salination and wind



erosion, which would be mitigated through irrigation
management, leaching and wind-breaks.
Povertv                        :  The project is classified under the Program of Targeted
Interventions. It is aimed at the alleviation of the
poverty of poor people and communities in poor areas
of the rural south, particularly those adversely affected
by recent changes in land tenure and by the economic
transition consequent to unification.
Benefits                          The project would supplement the means of economic
livelihood for about 50-60,000 people, together with
improvements in welfare arising from community
development activities for a total of up to 150,000.
The farm units of 2 ha would generate incomes of
between $2,600 and $4,000 per farm family, varying
according to the crop mix. For the fisheries
component, annual fish catch per boat is expected to
be 28 tons, generating incomes in excess of $3,000 a
year for 280 poor families. Other revenue-earning
enterprise activities (training, credit, etc.) are expected
to provide greater surety of income and new-found
employment or business for up to 6,850 trainees, each
of whom is expected to attain annual earnings of
between $500 and $1,000 a year subsequent to
training.   Improvements  in  women's  animal
husbandry are expected to generate annual income of
about $185,000 throughout the project area,
supplementing the incomes of many women.
Risks                          :  Principal risks are: (a) the macroeconomic risk that
Government's stabilization and adjustment program
and decentralized poverty alleviation policy may falter
- this risk is minimized by the current strong
performance backed up by dialogue and adjustment
lending, and by the careful monitoring that will be
continuous throughout the project period; (b) the risk
that the project may not be well managed, or that it
may prove over-complex - this would be avoided by
the setting up of an autonomous project management
unit run on business lines and by the continuous
involvement of the community in planning and
execution; (c) the risk that water resources might be
insufficient - this risk has been reduced by careful
studies during preparation, by fitting the proposed
water development within an overall water resources
management framework, and by the provision for
monitoring during the project; (d) the risk that some
unanticipated claim could conceivably arise to lands



iii
assigned for development under the project - this risk
has been substantially eliminated by the extensive
process of screening undertaken during project
preparation and appraisal, including the issue of a
Council   of   Minister's    Decree    establishing
Government title, an exhaustive title search, and
consultation with the local community; and (e) the
risk to farm productivity from farmner risk aversion, or
from the possible lack of credit for inputs or of
adequate profitable market outlets - this risk has been
reduced by the investment under the project in high
grade contract extension services that would help
farmers to prepare professional business plans.
Project Cost Summary
%        *%Total
Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs
-------- (Rials '000) ---------  ---------- US$ 000) ----------
A. Land Allocation and Development   1,355,947  1,998,864 3,354,812   10,043    14,804   24,847      60        61
B. Off-Farm Activities                 362,664   314,563  677,227    2,686      2,330    5,016      46         12
C. Community Development               244,646   677,625  922,271     1,812     5,019    6,831       73        17
D. Sector Study and Project Preparation      -   132,117  132,117         -       979      979      100         2
E. PMU                                 143,439   227,234  370,673    1,062      1,683    2,745      61          7
Total Baseline Costs                 2,106,696  3,350,404 5,457,100   15,603    24,814   40,417     61        100
Physical Contingencies             174,087   278,052  452,139    1,289      2,059    3,349      61          8
Price Contingencies               286,118   579,419  865,537       429      1,629    2,058      79          5
Total Project Costs                  2,566,901  4,207,875 6,774,775   17,322    28,503   45,824     62        113
Financing Plan
Financier                     Local            Foreign            Total
---------------- (US$ Million) ---------------
IDA                              6.8               17.9            24.7
IFAD                             4.4                6.9            11.3
Beneficiary Farmers              2.2                3.2             5.4
Government                       3.9                 0.5            4.4
Total                          17.3                28.5            45.8



iv
Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
FY98   FY99       EYQ0       FY01      FYOZ      FY0      _FY04
------------------------------------------ (US$ Million) ----------------------------------
Annual         -        3.5       5.7       8.9        4.4       1.4       0.7
Cumulative     -        3.5       9.2       18.1      22.6      24.0      24.7
Economic Rate of Return                9-28   percent  for  land   development
subcomponents; around 20 percent for the
livestock subcomponent; and about 180
percent for the fisheries subcomponent.
Estimated Completion Date              December 31, 2003
Project Identification No.             RY-PE-5902
Mams                              :    IBRD Nos. 28574, 28575, 28576, 28577



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Socio-Economic and Sectoral Background
1.1    The Government of Yemen has requested IDA assistance in financing the Southern Governorates
Rural Development Project. The project is designed to relieve rural poverty in the arid southern governorates
of the country. This introduction describes the challenge for the proposed project - how to raise incomes
sustainably in poor rural regions of Yemen in a context of general economic crisis, a marked deterioration in
public services and limited natural and human resource potential.
1.2.   Yemen Unification and Transition. The Republic of Yemen was created in May 1990 by agreement
between the governments of the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) and People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY). The political complexity of re-unifying the country after two decades of separation was
compounded by the needs of economic transition from the socialist economy of the south to a market based
economy.
1.3    The Economic Situation. While starting to re-link after unification, the country's two economies were
jolted again by the economic impacts of the Gulf War (1991). This triggered a massive return of migrant
Yemeni workers and a sudden decrease in financial inflows from remittances. Compounding these impacts, the
internal economic reforms started in the southern governorates with an ill-designed process of land de-
nationalization. This abruptly dispossessed a large number of cultivators of their income generating assets and
disrupted agricultural production over a wide area. As a result of these developments, the country has continued
to confront throughout the '90s major economic problems: the unemployment rate is currently over 20 percent;
real per capita income has halved, from about US$513 in 1990 to about US$216 in 1995; inflation rates reached
72 percent in 1994 (abating to single figures by mid-1997); and the currency devalued from an official rate of
YR12/US$1 in 1991 to about YR125/US$1 free market rate in mid-1997.
1.4    The Civil War. Unsolved political tensions from the unification process and growing social and
economic pressures reached crisis point in 1994, exploding in a civil war. Although the war was of short
duration, the cost, and the consequent disruptions, further aggravated the problems of the economy and
deepened poverty levels, particularly among the population of the southern governorates, making assistance
for reform and post-war reconstruction an even stronger imperative.
1.5    The Crisis in Government Services.! In this difficult economic climate, government services have
vastly weakened and in places collapsed. Fiscal constraints have reduced operating budgets to low levels, and
inflation reduced the real value of public sector pay in 1996 to 15 percent of its level in 1990. As a result, an
increasingly overstaffed and unmotivated civil service has little or no resources to actually do its job. The
delivery of many basic public services has dwindled to low levels.
1.6    Human Impact. The population is perceptibly suffering from the worsened economic situation and
impoverishment. In addition, there is a high population growth rate (estimated at 3.7 percent per annum),
with 52 percent of the population under 15 years of age and labor force growth of 4.5 percent per annum.
' See Public Expenditure Review, December 1996



2                                                       Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
With declining quality and coverage of education and health services, the resulting low educational standards
and very high rates of illiteracy (62 percent) give the population little advantage in the global economy.
1.7    Resource Advantages and Constraints.  Despite these very serious limitations, the country has
development potential in certain sectors, including limited oil resources and significant gas reserves. The
agriculture and rural sector has shown resilience over the last two decades, absorbing a huge increase in the rural
population into an increasingly market - oriented agriculture. Now, however, there is acute pressure on the
limited water resource and there has been little recent technological innovation that could improve productivity
and incomes.
1.8    Development Strategy. To achieve sustainable growth and to alleviate poverty, government has
adopted a new development strategy based on a reduced role for the public sector, the development of the
private sector, and direct interventions to reduce poverty. Thus, government's program currently focuses on:
(i) stabilization to restore macroeconomic balance and reduce inflation; (ii) structural reform and adjustment
to stimulate economic growth; and (iii) poverty alleviation and social protection measures. The structural
reforms are being supported by the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC, Credit No. 2840-YEM) approved in
April 1996. Poverty alleviation is to be achieved through different initiatives, including a rapid income
transfer through the Public Works Project (Credit No. 2878-YE), by the Social Fund Project (Credit No. 2953-
YE), and by the proposed project.
Agriculture and Rural Development
1.9    Yemen's agricultural sector provides about 18 percent of gross domestic product, gives employment
to about 70 percent of the economically active population, and provides about one third of the nation's staple
food supply. The principal crops are: cereals, especially sorghum and millet; legumes, notably lentils and
chickpeas; a wide variety of vegetables and fruits; and cotton and coffee. In recent years, the main areas of
growth have been qat (a plant with a mild drug content chewed locally), grapes, potatoes and onions, all of
which are very profitable for farmers. Extensive - albeit poor - pasture and widespread fodder production
support a large livestock herd, predominantly sheep and goats.
1.10   Over the last twenty years, Yemen had developed a range of services to the rural sector. However, as
a result of the crisis in Government services (para. 1.5), overstaffing and underfunding are pervasive, and the
level of basic service delivery has dropped considerably.
B. The Poverty Challenge
Background
1.11   Yemen's population growth rate of 3.7 percent per annum is one of the highest in the world. Among
countries in the Middle East and North Africa, Yemen has the lowest life expectancy (51 years), the lowest
adult literacy rate (38 percent), the highest fertility rate (7.5), and the highest infant mortality rate (11.7
percent of live births). Poverty is a major problem - in 1995, 19 percent of the population was poor (3.0
million people). Poverty is predominantly a rural phenomenon - 81 percent of the poor are living in rural
areas, where they make up 15 percent of the rural population.
1.12   The recently initiated stabilization and structural adjustment program can begin to lay the economic
foundation for a revival of economic growth and thereby the reduction of poverty. The first step in a poverty
eradication program is to redirect expenditures away from the wasteful universal subsidy program which cost
an estimated 16 percent of GDP in 1994. The second step is to take direct action to transfer resources to the
poor. The recent Poverty Assessment' thus recommends an approach that targets the poor directly, with
l Report No. 15158-YEM, June 26, 1996



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                            3
particular emphasis on the non-governmental sector and local community groups. IDA is to support a
nationwide program on these lines through the Social Fund Project (Credit No. 2953-YE). At the same time,
the Assessment recommends special attention to the rural sector where the core of the problem lies.
1.13   The proposed project is set in the context of this special emphasis on action in the rural sector through
a community approach and through investment in sustainable increases in incomes. The objectives of the
proposed project are further defined by the dispossession of tenant farmers throughout the southern
govemorates that took place after unification. This process is explained in the next section.
Land Tenure and Rural Poverty
1.14 The general process of impoverishment in rural areas has been worsened in the southern governorates
by recent changes in land tenure. In 1970, the government of the former People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY) passed a law that nationalized much privately owned land and assigned the land on a tenancy
basis to small farmers associated in cooperatives. After unification in 1990, the new government decided to
reverse the previous land nationalization policy and to encourage a return to private land ownership and
individual systems of production. The government passed a decree (Decree 65) that returned expropriated
land to former owners. As a result, up to 23,000 small tenant farmers in the southern governorates of
Hadramawt, Shabwa, Abyan and Lahej (see map) became liable to dispossession, and over the last five years
the great majority of them have surrendered the lands they were farming to the returning former owners.
1.15   The dispossessed tenants have been deprived of their farming income which was their principal - or in
most cases, sole - source of livelihood The process of dispossession thus aggravated the problem of rural
poverty in the area. According to the Participatory Needs Assessment conducted by IDA in 1994 as part of
project identification, income losses for the dispossessed averaged 41 percent. Most dispossessed tenants are
living below the poverty iine, and the majority of them (86 percent) are living in absolute poverty.
1.16 In 1994, Government requested help from IDA to finance a rural development project in the southern
governorates based on land development and community participation, aimed at raising incomes of very poor
people with particular focus on the dispossessed tenants, and ensuring environmentally sustainable economic
and social development in poor rural communities.
C. The Country Assistance Strategy and Lessons from IDA Lending Experience
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2
1.17   The CAS provides the underlying rationale for the decision of IDA to agree to Government's request
to consider financing the proposed project. The CAS has three main objectives:
(a)    Stabilization, Structural Reforms and Social Protection: the principal thrusts are to
support the stabilization and structural adjustment program by policy dialogue and adjustment
lending, and to attack poverty in a practical way through targeted interventions and support to
economic growth. The proposed project is designed to provide support to the poorest
segment of the community in a well-defined geographical area where targeting is possible
and where there are good prospects for a sustainable solution to poverty through economic
development. It is thus a prime means of implementing this CAS objective (see CASpara 46);
(b)    Portfolio Implementation and Sustainability of Investments: poor implementation
performance and a mixed record on sustainability of investments underlie this important
2Report 15286-YEM, January 19, 1996



4                                                      Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
objective. The principal tools proposed are selectivity of new investments (confined to
situations where there are good prospects of efficient implementation) and an emphasis on
cost-effective and innovative approaches to project management   The project would
contribute to the CAS objective of improving implementation and sustainability by
incorporating a change in project management approach, with an autonomous executing
agency, and by integrating beneficiary and community involvement, and self-management and
self-financing as the main foundations of sustainability (see CASpara 47fl); and
(c)    Sustainable Natural and Human Resource Development: human pressure on natural
resources is growing and the IDA program has to take up the challenge of helping sustain
incomes for a growing rural population whilst reducing the rate of mining of water and land
resources. This is being addressed at the policy and at the program level, notably through
work on the water strategy3 and the assistance program that flows from it The proposed
project is founded on detailed work on the nature and extent of the natural resource base
carried out by international consultants over the last ten years and thoroughly checked at
appraisal. Sustainable management of water, soil and the overall environment are built into
the proposed project, together with support to water resource monitoring systems (see CAS
para 51).
1.18   Because of the way in which the proposed project can contribute to the achievement of IDA program
objectives, particularly on a population segment most deprived by reform and economic transition, it was
incorporated in the CAS which was adopted after discussion by the Board on February 20, 1996.
IDA Lending Experience
1.19   Since 1973, IDA has financed a total of 24 agriculture and rural development projects and five
fisheries projects in Yemen and thus has considerable lending experience in the sector. At present, six
projects are under implementation. IDA financed projects in the sector have been of two main types: area
development projects, including five successive projects in the Tihama region, three in the Southern
Highlands, three in Wadi Hadramawt and others in Beihan, Al Jawf, Central Highlands, Northern Region and
Eastern Region; and national projects (research and extension, credit, land and water conservation etc.). On
the whole, area development projects have been more successful than national ones. The principal lessons
learned from lending experience can be summarized as: (i) good management is key - poor management
skills, weak management structures and cumbersome procedures have been the principal cause of project
failure; (ii) beneficiary participation helps improve performance - top down designs have usually had
weak impact; (iii) Government commitment is vital - where sector ministry partners have not been
committed to projects, implementation and impact have been poor; and (iv) projects should be simple -
complex designs have proved very hard to implement in the Yemen environment.
1.20  In recent years, IDA has been very active in addressing project implementation constraints. These
were addressed by decisions at the 1995 and 1996 Country Portfolio Performance Reviews (CPPR), in
particular: simplification of procedures for procurement; denomination of local contracts in convertible
currencies; streamlining of disbursements; and improvements in management through competitive
recruitment of staff on contract at market salaries.
1.21   At the start of FY98, the portfolio in agriculture and natural resources contained six projects, of which
one is currently (September 1997) rated unsatisfactory: The National Agriculture Sector Management Project
is rated unsatisfactory on Development Objectives because, although implementation is satisfactory, the
overall environment of poorly-performing public services has made it more difficult to translate increased
capacity in sector institutions into improved service delivery at farmer level. Under the project, a process has
3Report 15718-YEM, August 31, 1996



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                              5
now been launched to prioritize public service interventions in agriculture and to reallocate resources to the
delivery of essentially public services such as research and extension. Once the process of prioritization and
reallocation is underway, it will be justifiable to uprate the project; this is expected before the end of 1997.
Another project, Wadi Hadramawt III, was rated unsatisfactory until the most recent supervision (June 1997).
The project suffered from difficult cofinancing arrangements; one cofinancing loan was canceled early in the
project life, and another was not declared effective for six years, until the cofinancier unilaterally canceled the
loan in June 1997. As cofinancing arrangements were essential to implementation of the largest project
component (agricultural development), the project could not achieve its original objectives. However, the
principal component that has been actually implemented - spate irrigation improvement - has been successful,
mobilizing widespread community participation and exceeding quantitative targets. The project development
objectives were revised and the project is now rated satisfactory. The Credit will close in September 1997.
1.22   In order to ensure improved implementation, Government and IDA have agreed that each project has
to be designed as simply as possible in such a way that it can deliver benefits in a cost-effective and
sustainable way within a weak-capacity and low-budget public sector environment. The proposed project thus
incorporates: autonomous project management; maximum private sector and beneficiary participation; simple
cofinancing arrangements; and a clear vision of how post-project sustainability is to be achieved.
D. Project Area
1.23   The project area comprises five regions in four southern governorates of Yemen - these are (see map): (i)
Wadi Hadramawt in Hadramawt Governorate; (ii) Coastal Hadramawt in Hadramawt Govemorate; (iii)
Meifa'a/Ataq in Shabwa Govemorate; (iv) Ja'ar/Zinjibar/Ahwar in Abyan Govemorate; and (v) Al Hawta in
Lahej Govemorate. These regions contain a high concentration of dispossessed tenants and other rural poor (see
para. 1.14 ff). The five project regions are generally arid, with low and erratic rainfall. Natural resources
throughout the project area are limited, although oil has been discovered in the eastern part of the area.
Agriculture is the mainstay of the rural economy, with artisanal fisheries an important activity on the coast.
Despite the generally harsh environment, the area and its population still have untapped development potential:
(i) water resources in some areas, notably in Wadi Hadramawt and in major wadis in Shabwa and Abyan; (ii)
coastal fisheries resources; (iii) a tradition of enterprise and a generally higher level of education and skill than in
the rest of the country; and (iv) real potential for the development of cultural tourism.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Preparation and Design
Project Preparation
2.1    Government requested IDA assistance with the project in 1994. The first step in project identification
was a participatory needs assessment (PNA) that consisted of a series of systematic on-site consultations
(governorate by governorate) with the key local actors - both the dispossessed tenants and the returning
owners. The PNA was conducted to give these key stakeholders a voice in project design, to assess the
economic and social problems that had resulted from the dispossession process, and to identify both
individual and community level solutions.
2.2    Building on the results of the PNA, the project was identified during a joint Government/IDA mission
in January 1995. The basic methodology of this mission - and of subsequent field missions - was
participatory. Extensive consultations were held with communities, sub-groups and individuals in order to
understand the problems and the development opportunities, and to incorporate the proposals of potential
beneficiaries and of central and local government into project design. The result was a project proposal



6                                                      Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
directed at rural poverty with an accent on cost effective implementation, participation and rapid benefits for
the poor. The components identified were: development of irrigated land; promotion of off-farm enterprise;
and community development activities.
2.3    The second step in project preparation was reconnaissance level studies under Japan PHRD grant
financing to screen areas proposed for irrigation development and to assess, through a variety of participatory
methodologies, the technical, social and institutional conditions for a project. This level of studies was
completed by the end of 1995, and confirmed the feasibility of the project proposal. Water resource
availability was checked by both site investigation and analysis of the wealth of existing data on water
resources, and sites where water resource sustainability was not clear were eliminated. The key issue at this
stage concerned doubts about the tenure of the land sites allocated by the government for development under
the project. Many claims had been lodged, alleging that these were private, rather than government, lands,
and it was necessary to assess these claims before a decision could be taken by government and IDA to
proceed.
2.4    By early 1996, government had begun the process of resolving claims and had decided to guarantee
the allocation of land developed under the project to poor small farmers on a freehold basis. As a result,
government and IDA took the decision to proceed with full-scale preparation. This was conducted through a
joint govemmentlconsultant team, with the consultant contract financed by a Japan PHRD grant. The
preparation team was in the field from April to August 1996, working continuously with communities and the
target population, and with representatives of central and local governments. The preparation report was
produced in October 1996; and a joint Government/IDA mission carried out a preappraisal mission in
November 1996. The preappraisal (i) defined the nature and scope of benefits to be delivered to project
beneficiaries; (ii) broadened the project's target population to include some of the poorest rural community
members residing in the project areas, even though they were not dispossessed; (iii) specified the non-land-
related project components; and (iv) launched the work of a "Committee for the Selection of Beneficiaries"
that used an innovative methodology of prompting the communities themselves to create the lists of
benefiting families, through a self selection process done jointly with the Committee.
2.5    Following pre-appraisal, the Bank-wide Operations Committee (OC) discussed (December 1996) this
project, in view of its unusual nature and important poverty reduction content, and fully endorsed its rural
poverty focus and innovative participatory approaches. The OC also instructed the appraisal mission to seek
from Government a legal decision to formally end the process of dispossession. As a condition of
negotiations, Government issued a decree that permanently halts the process of dispossession. The appraisal
took place in March 1997 and its results are presented in this report.
Project Design
2.6    The following paragraphs explain the reason for the choice of components and their integration in the
overall social design and implementation strategy.
2.7    Priority to Land-Based Poverty Alleviation.  Sustainable poverty alleviation requires the
development of income-producing assets and skills rather than temporary income transfer. Best practice has
shown that the surest means of restoring incomes for impoverished rural people is land development. The
impoverished population in the target group are all from a farming background and most of them are recently
dispossessed farmers (para. 1.14). Not surprisingly, the PNA and all the subsequent project preparation work
revealed that the dispossessed and other poor had an overwhelming preference for land-based support, if
available. This component was therefore a priority in project design. However, the scope of the component
was limited by the lack of sufficient water resources and by the high cost of water development in some areas,



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                             7
and hence other non-land-based development components have also been developed in order to reach as many
of the rural poor in the project area as possible at the least cost possible.
2.8    Non Land-Based Poverty Alleviation.  Throughout the preparation process, Government and
beneficiaries alike clearly expressed a preference - if there was not enough land in the project - for other rural
based poverty alleviating investments (rather than migration to towns). In situ poverty alleviation is certainly
lower cost. Most of Yemen's towns are suffering from rapid and uncontrolled expansion and from growing
physical constraints, notably in water supply and sanitation. The preparation process, therefore, focused on
working with the target group to identify profitable or potentially profitable enterprises in the rural sector for
which there is both a market and an interest on the part of the target group. This led to the inclusion in the
project of support to livestock (familiar to and practiced by most beneficiaries, scope for low cost animal
husbandry and health improvements identified, and ready sale market particularly in the fast growing coastal
towns); fisheries (a well-organized sector with good potential for sustainable extra production and a fast-
growing market both locally and in the highlands, with competitive market organization, good availability of
credit and equipment, and a working institutional support structure); new, farm-related activities (well-suited
to ex-farmers and complementary to the land development component of the project) and rural-based
handicrafts (a large unsatisfied potential market, well-suited to home production by women). In the case of
livestock and fisheries, the preparation process continued into a "subsector analysis" which identified specific
bottlenecks that the project could remove in order to help realize potential for the benefit of the target group.
In the case of these two subsectors, specific subcomponents have been designed. For other subsectors, and
building on the methodology, the project will conduct a series of such "subsector analyses" during
implementation - these analyses are pragmatic, hands-on exercises that will enable project staff (through a
participatory methodology) to identify bottlenecks and show where the project can effectively intervene.
2.9    Community Involvement. A clear finding of the PNA and of subsequent preparation work is that the
community has a responsibility and interest in poverty alleviation. Hence design brings in communities in the
selection of beneficiaries, in getting the community to acknowledge Government title to the land sites and to
agree to the allocation of these lands to the poor amongst their own community, and in the identification of
opportunities for non-land based poverty alleviation. The same logic led to the community development
component which involves the broader community in the project and brings benefits to the community as a
whole.
2.10   A "Business" Approach to Project Management. Throughout the preparation period there was
skepticism evident about the capability of a project to affect the problem of rural poverty. Rural people - and
Government officials - tended to see a project as a series of inputs that were placed in the hands of the
Government rather than as a set of outputs and impacts on the real problem. This perception, which is largely
based on past experience, led to proposals for project implementation which provide for a temporary, light
and efficient structure run on "business" lines, with low overhead and focused on the impact on the target
group. Beneficiary involvement in monitoring the efficiency of project management according to service
delivery standards to be developed by the project management would provide one of the checks on the
effectiveness of the proposed "business" approach.
B. Project Objectives
2.11    Within the overall CAS objectives (para. 1.17), the specific development objectives of the project
are:
(a)   to raise the incomes of about 8,750 very poor rural individuals and their families (50-60,000
people) in the southern govemorates of Yemen sustainably above the poverty level;



8                                                       Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
(b)   to promote overall economic and social development in the approximately 40 extended rural
communities (up to about 150,000 people in total) in the which the target population under (a)
reside and in which there is a very high concentration of poor people; and
(c)   to test innovations regarding the involvement of beneficiaries in planning and implementation
and regarding a business approach to project management.
C. Project Description
2.12   The detailed project description is in Annex 1. Project components are summarized in the following
paragraphs.
Land Allocation and Development or Rehabilitation (base cost US$24.8 million)
2.13   This component would comprise a series of activities designed to establish about 1,950 very poor
landless families within the target communities in sustainable new farming operations on about 3,900 ha.
About 3,150 ha would be newly developed and about 750 ha would be rehabilitation work on former state
farms. Subcomponents would be: (i) land allocation - assignment of secure title for lands to be developed or
rehabilitated under the project to poor rural families, largely dispossessed; (ii) land development and
rehabilitation - about 3,900 hectares of irrigated land would be developed or rehabilitated, and water
monitoring set up or reinforced; and (iii) farmer services - training and extension (delivered by professionals
on a contract basis), help to access credit for equipment and inputs, and material support to farm
establishment.
2.14   About three quarters of the land (2,900 ha) comprises specific sites which have been appraised from
the technical, economic, social and legal standpoints. Government has formally certified that these sites are
free from claim, are state property and would be assigned irrevocably in freehold to project beneficiaries
(subject to certain covenants that would ensure that the beneficiaries used the land for the purpose intended -
see Annex 1). Action on this was a condition of negotiations. About one quarter (1,000 ha) is land that was
added to the project only at negotiations when cofinancing for its development under the IDA-supported Wadi
Hadramawt III Project (para 1.21) was canceled. The technical and economic characteristics of this land are
equivalent or superior to the land that has been fully appraised, and detailed studies will be completed in the
first year of the project. The same selection criteria and Government certification procedures (detailed in the
Manual of Procedures) will be applied as for existing sites. In the event of any sites proving unsatisfactory,
there are ample alternatives. During negotiations, assurances were received from Government that it would:
(i) demarcate all sites in accordance with the Manual of Procedures, and exclude lands with valid claims from
development under the project; and (ii) grant to beneficiaries freehold title on individual plots before land is
developed. In order to ensure that land is allocated to the poorest and that the community fully accepts and
endorses the allocation, a participatory process to select beneficiaries has already been conducted and about
two thirds of the beneficiary farmers have been selected. The sustainability of water resources on these sites
has been thoroughly checked and doubtful sites have been excluded. Groundwater monitoring in the project
area would be strengthened, and all project wells would be metered.
2.15   The following investments would be financed under this component: drilling wells; equipment of the
wells with pumps and engines; water conveyance and distribution systems; land leveling; farm establishment,
including leaching, deep ploughing, canal construction, tree planting and soil amendment; contract services
for extension and training during the initial years of farming; technical assistance and equipment for
groundwater monitoring; and engineering and supervision services, including vehicles and equipment.



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                             9
Off-farm Income Development (base cost US$5.0 million)
2.16   The component would comprise three sets of activities to provide assistance to poor people to set up or
develop very small or small businesses or to acquire the technical skills training needed to find remunerative
employment. The interest of the target group to take up these opportunities has been established through the
participatory preparation process. The component would comprise three sets of activities: (i) livestock
development - training and equipment in animal health and care to about 500 poor villagers, at least half of
them women, to enable them to set up as simple animal health providers ("paraveterinarians") - this activity
has been successfully piloted by a GTZ-financed project in the southern govemorates; (ii) fishing
development - training and equipment of about 280 new entrants to the profitable fisheries business on the
south coast; and (iii) promotion of other revenue-earning services and micro-enterprise. This activity
would provide assistance to: (a) establish start-up micro and small enterprisesI (MSEs); (b) assist already
existing MSEs; and (c) provide technical skills training in areas where employment opportunities exist. While
being poor is the overriding characteristic of the target group, opportunities for income generation would vary
based on individual characteristics, geographical areas, and community infrastructure. Phased
implementation of MSE development and technical skills training would occur based on findings of subsector
analysis and market studies as well as community dialogue. The project would pilot activities in both
financial and non-financial service delivery (the former executed on contract by other agencies, including the
Social Fund for Development). Because there is little experience within the project areas in MSE
development, a number of approaches would be used. As experience is gained, methods and activities would
be adjusted accordingly.
2.17   Investments would be: technical assistance contracts to provide training; apprenticeships; minor
equipment for trainees (such as initial kits of drugs and instruments for the paraveterinarians, or nets and
ropes as teaching aids for the fishermen); workshops and visits to other enterprises locally; the costs of
operating a group of business development advisers; technical assistance; and vehicles and equipment.
Economic and Social Development of Rural Communities (base cost US$6.8 million)
2.18   This component is aimed at the social and economic development of the 40 target communities as a
whole. The component would comprise two sets of activities. The first is development of community
management skills and institutions - the project would provide training and minor logistical support to
community organizations around specific projects of economic or social importance to the local community.
This would be backed up by the second component - a community development fund to finance small grants
for community projects on a cost sharing basis - spate irrigation, water supply and sanitation, a community
center, or flood protection works are some typical projects. Only communities where there was no land
development would have access to the community development fund. Investments would be in project staff,
vehicles and equipment, in training materials, in visits to other community projects; in workshops for the
communities, and in the grant fund.
Preparation of Future Projects (base cost US$1.0 million)
2.19   Investment would be in technical assistance and training to help prepare future projects in the sector,
including possible projects for irrigation improvement, field services and animal health.
1     A common definition of MSEs includes a wide range of enterprises (services, transport, agriculture, manufacturing) ranging
from part time, seasonal activities of a single person to small, formnal enterprises employing several non-family members.



10                                                                 Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
Operation of the Project Management Unit (base cost US$2.7 million)
2.20    Investments to be financed are: technical assistance, project staff, vehicles, office equipment, office
rental, and operating costs.
D. Project Costs and Financing
2.21    Cost Estimates. The estimated total cost of the proposed project (including taxes and physicai and
price contingencies) over a six-year implementation period is US$45.8 million. Inflation has been assumed as
follows:
Table 2.1: Inflation Rates Used
Foreign %                          Local %
1997                          3.00                               5.5
1998                          2.80                               4.1
1999                          3.05                               3.7
2000                          3.05                               3.1
2001                          3.14                               3.1
2002                          3.14                               3.1
2003                          3.14                               3.1
2.22    Physical contingencies have been applied for all categories of expenditure except for technical
assistance, operating costs and training. In summary, costs are:
Table 2.2: Project Cost Summary
(US$ 000's)
o%e      %Total
Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs
--- (Rials '000) --------  ----------  US$ 000)
Land Allocation and Development
Land Allocation                     26,447     2,962   29,440       196        22      218       10          1
Land Development                   939,346  1,642,735 2,582,081   6,957     12,167   19,124      64        47
Crop Development                   390,125   353,167  743,291     2,889     2,616    5,505       48         14
Subtotal                           1,355,947  1,998,864 3,354,812   10,043    14,804   24,847      60        61
Off-Farm Income Development
Livestock                           56,310    58,333   114,643     417        432      849       51         2
Fisheries                           29,542    13,796   43,338      220        219       102      32          1
Other Revenue Earning Enterprises  276,812   242,434  519,246    2,050       1,796    3,846      47        10
Subtotal                             362,664   314,563  677,227    2,686      2,330    5,016       46        12
Community Development                244,646   677,625  922,271     1,812     5,019    6,831       73        17
Subtotal                             244,646   677,625  922,271     1,812     5,019    6,831       73        17
Future Projects Preparation                -   132,117  132,117         -       979      979      100         2
PMIU                                 143,439   227,234  370,673    1,063       1,683    2,745      61         7
Total Baseline Costs               2,106,696  3,350,404 5,457,100   15,603    24,814   40,417      61       100
Physical Contingencies             174,087   278,052  452,139     1,289     2,059    3,349       61         8
Price Contingencies                286,118   579,419  865,537      430       1,629    2,058      79         5
Total Project Costs                2,566,901  4,207,875 6,774,775   17,322    28,503   45,824      62       113
Financing Plan
2.23    Total project costs of US$45.8 million would be financed by: an IDA Credit of SDR 17.7 million
(US$24.7 million equivalent, 54 percent of project costs) that would cover part of the costs of the land
allocation and development component and the costs of the project preparation and project management



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                             1l
components; an IFAD Loan of SDR 8.15 million (US$11.3 million equivalent, 25 percent of project costs)
that would finance the costs of the off-farm income development and community development components; a
Government contribution of US$4.4 million equivalent (10 percent of project costs) that would cover part of
the cost of the land allocation and development component; and beneficiary cost sharing in the cost of the
land allocation and development component equivalent to US$5.4 million (11 percent of project costs). The
IDA Credit would be on standard IDA terms. The financing plan is shown in Table 2.3 below.
Table 2.3: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Government   Beneficiaries   Total    % Total
IDA     IFAD
Land Allocation and       20.6      -           3.4         4.0           28.0     61
Development
Off Farm Income             -       5.4         0.2          -            5.6      12
Development
Community Development       -       5.9         0.8         1.4           8.0      17
Project preparation        1.0                                            1.0       3
Project Management         3.1      -            -           -             3.2      7
TOTAL                     24.7     11.3         4.4         5.4           45.8    100
Percentage                54       25           10          I I          100
EI[. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management Arrangements
Business Approach
3.1    The project design provides for an innovation in management arrangements that can best be described
as a "business approach". Under this approach, the Government has created by Decree of December 1996 the
Project Management Unit (PMU, see para. 3.3 below) as a temporary autonomous legal entity with powers
and a structure equivalent to those of a private business. This was a condition of negotiations. The reason for
this business approach is to ensure that the project starts up rapidly and is implemented at lowest possible cost
with the maximum direct benefits being delivered in a timely and efficient manner to the beneficiaries - the
rural poor. The PMU will exist to achieve specific targets over the project period, and would be dissolved at
the end of the project. Low management overhead would be a key performance indicator, not exceeding 10
percent of project cost (compared to rates of 20 percent and upward experienced in projects in the sector that
have been implemented through ministries).
Steering Committee
3.2    By Decree of December 1996, Government created the project steering committee chaired by the
Minister of Agriculture. This was a condition of negotiations This committee has powers and functions
equivalent to the Board of Directors of a company. The steering committee comprises representatives (at
Deputy Minister level or equivalent) of MAWR, MOPD and the Governor's office in each of the four
governorates concerned. The committee would meet regularly twice a year, once in April to review and
approve the project annual report and audited accounts for the preceding year and once in about September to
review the draft budget and work program for the following year. The committee would ensure that



12                                                   Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
implementation was carried out according to the manual of procedures (para. 3.3 ) and would approve the
appointment of the senior staff (para. 3.11 ff). Meetings of the steering committee would be in the project
governorates and in Sana'a in turn.
Project Management Unit
3.3   The PMU would have its headquarters at Seiyun, the principal town of Wadi Hadramawt, where the
largest regional share of project activities is located. The PMU would have the structure, powers, functions
and responsibilities of company management. The organization chart, terms of reference of staff and the
procedures of the PMU are laid down in a manual of procedures, the final version of which was agreed at
negotiations and which is in the project file. All PMU professional staff (22 in total) would be recruited on
contract after competition and would be paid salaries at market rates. Staff recruited who already held posts
in another institution, whether public or private, would have to resign or take long-term leave without pay.
Employment with the project would be full-time but fixed term. All staff would be liable to termination if
their services were considered inadequate.
3.4   The PMU would be headed by a project director with overall responsibility for planning,
implementation and reporting. Under the director, the PMU would comprise four groups, plus advisory staff:
(i) the participatory development group, headed by a senior community development specialist
(internationally recruited); (ii) the business development group, headed by a senior business development
adviser; (iii) the engineering group, headed by a senior engineer (internationally recruited); and (iv) the
finance and administration group, headed by afinance manager.
3.5   Participatory Development Group.  The group leader, the senior community development
specialist, would work from headquarters but would travel widely. The group's focus would be entirely field-
oriented with five participatory development coordinators (PDCs) resident in the project regions (one each in
Seiyun, Mukalla, Ataq, Zinjibar and Al Hawta). The PDCs would have front line responsibility, as
representatives of the project to the communities, would manage the community development component and
would coordinate overall implementation in their region of responsibility. With five PDCs and 40
communities, each PDC would work in about eight communities. The number of PDCs has been deternined
based on an analysis of the tasks they would have to undertake.
3.6    Business Development Group. The group leader, the senior business development adviser, would
work from headquarters but would travel widely. Four business development advisors (BDAs) would be
resident in the field (in Mukalla, Ataq, Zinjibar and Al Hawta) and responsible for implementing the off-farm
income development component (para. 2.16 and Annex 1). This would include: (i) conducting subsector
analyses and implementing interventions; (ii) liaising with credit projects/institutions and advising client
groups on accessing credit; (iii) providing business andlor marketing training and information; and (iv)
facilitating all aspects of technical skills training. Because micro- and small-enterprise development activities
are almost non-existent in Yemen, the project would contract with an international agency or firm with
relevant experience in the region to train the BDAs.
3.7   Engineering Group. The group leader, the senior engineer, would work from headquarters but
would travel widely. The senior engineer would have overall responsibility for supervising preparation of
final design and for overseeing contract implementation for all land development activities. Two (civil)
engineers would be posted in the field (Seiyun, and either Ataq, Meifa'a or Zinjibar) to supervise
implementation of the land development component.
3.8   Finance and Administration Group. The Finance and Administration Group would be based in
headquarters.  Under the Finance Manager, the group would comprise an accountant, a liaison



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                         13
officer/clearing agent and a procurement officer. The Finance Manager would have overall responsibility
for the financial management and accounts of the project, including disbursements of the IDA Credit. The
accountant would be responsible, under supervision of the Finance Manager, for keeping records of
disbursements and the special account, and for preparing disbursement requests.
3.9   In addition to the four groups, there would be three other senior staff reporting to the Project Director:
an agricultural adviser to back up the field program in farming and livestock: a women-in-development
adviser to back up the PDCs and BDAs on gender and to ensure the integration of women's support in all
aspects of the project; and a monitoring and evaluation specialist to provide feedback to enable headquarters
and field staff to learn in a positive environment from both success and failure. A series of consultancies
would be available to back up the project team in areas where a full time staff member is not justified.
3.10   All staff would either have experience or demonstrated interest in participatory social development
approaches, and training in these approaches would be given to all staff early in their service. All professional
staff would be highly mobile and provided with the best available communication facilities. Government
would provide office space in the different regions for liaison purposes, but field staff would be expected to
spend at least 90 percent of their time in the field. Headquarters staff would be expected to travel about half
of their time.
3.11   The appointment of the senior professional staff (project director, group leaders, senior headquarters
staff) would be subject to IDA approval. Terms of reference for all staff were agreed at negotiations. A
project manager satisfactory to IDA has been appointed. The appointment of the four group leaders would be
required by December 31, 1997, and of five participatory development coordinators, four business
development advisers, a procurement officer, an economic adviser, a women-in-development adviser, and a
management and evaluation specialist by March 31, 1998. Assurances to this effect were received at
negotiations.
Work Programming
3.12   The PMU will prepare Annual Work Programs for presentation through the Steering Committee to
IDA for approval before November 30 of each year. Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations. The
draft program for the first year of the project was agreed at negotiations.
Implementation and Contract Services
3.13   The project's three components would make up a "menu" offered by the PDCs during the community
dialogue process. Not all activities would be conducted in each community; it would depend on local
opportunities and community and individual requests. After dialogue within the community, the activities to
be implemented in each community would be agreed and the activities implemented as follows:
(a)    Land Allocation and Development. Allocation would be conducted by Government with
PMU support (both the participatory development group and the engineering group).
Preparation of detailed designs would be conducted by consultants under supervision of the
engineering group. Tendering and supervision for land development would be conducted by
the engineering group, execution would be by contractors. Crop development activities
(training, extension, physical works) would be carried out through contractors, with the PMIUJ
(agricultural adviser) responsible for tendering and supervision.
(b)    Off-Farm Income Development. The paraveterinarian  activity would be executed by a
contractor, with PMU responsible for tendering and supervision. The fisheries activity would



14                                                   Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
be executed by the business development group, with the formal training done under contract
by the Fisheries Institute in Aden. The subsector analysis and the management of the
resulting interventions would be executed by the business development group. The business
training activity would be executed by the business development group. The technical
training activity would be executed by the business group, with the formal training done
under contract with VTCs and other training institutions. The microfinance pilot activity
would be implemented under contract by SFD, and the small enterprise credit pilot would be
implemented under contract by SEDU.
(c)    Economic and Social Development of Rural Communities. The development of community
management skills activity would be implemented by the participatory development group.
The community development fund activity would be implemented by the participatory
development group working directly with communities (see Annex I for a detailed
description of implementation arrangements), with works executed under contracts tendered
and supervised by the participatory development group.
(d)   Preparation of Future Projects in the Sector. This component would be executed by the
MAWR Directorate General of Planning and Monitoring.
3.14  It is estimated that a total of about 100 contracts would be managed during the project period, ranging
from major civil works and equipment supply contracts, through contracts with international specialist
organizations (e.g., with an international NGO for the paraveterinarian activity), down to local level contracts for
extension and training (contracts would be signed with consultants or with other local professionals of
demonstrated ability -- those working in the public sector would be required to take leave of absence during their
contract). It is expected that the use of contract services would prove much lower cost and more flexible and
speedy than the recruitment and training of a large cadre of PMU staff. However, it is experimental in Yemen
and would be closely observed during early supervision in order to ensure that the system is manageable and
giving the expected results. Design and management of performance criteria would be critical and the skills
needed for this would be key to the selection of PMU staff.
Credit
3.15   Beneficiaries receiving land would be responsible for their own working capital and equipment needs
beyond the costs of farm establishment. As beneficiaries are poor, it is expected that credit would be
required. Most formal rural credit is presently supplied by the parastatal Cooperative and Agricultural Credit
Bank (CACB). No special credit fund is proposed under the project. Instead, project field staff would work
closely with beneficiaries in order to help them to prepare well-structured credit applications either to CACB
or to other credit institutions present in the project area. As the financial sector is presently undergoing
reform as part of the overall adjustment program, it is expected that the offer of credit for well-structured
projects backed by freehold land collateral would increase. For the fisheries component, there is adequate
finance available in the existing Fisheries IV revolving fund, and credit for the project fisheries component
would therefore be handled through the existing fund without any special provisions under the project.
Finance for very small and small enterprises would be provided through the pilot programs to be run by SFD
and SEDU (para. 3.13).
Operation and Maintenance
3.16   The proposed typical Irrigation Unit (IU) for groundwater irrigation development would consist of 60
feddans divided among 12 farming families, with 5 feddans each. Operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
irrigation systems will be managed by Water User Associations (WUAs), which would be organized and
supervised by the PMU. Operation of wells and day-to-day maintenance would be carried out by the



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                         15
beneficiaries through arrangements established by the WUAs. Initial training in the operation of wells would
be given to the WUAs. More complicated technical maintenance work should be carried out by technicians
under the supervision of the PMU and the concemed WUAs. The same above procedures would be applied
also for O&M of the spate irrigation scheme in the areas of Meifa'a State Farm which would included under
the Project.
3.17   Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the PMU would: (i) submit a plan for operation
and maintenance for each groundwater irrigation scheme to IDA for review by December 31, 1998; (ii)
submit a plan for operation and maintenance of the spate irrigation scheme to IDA for review by December
31, 1999; (iii) assist the water user associations to review and revise by December 31 of each year the charges
set by each WUA to ensure that they cover all operation and maintenance costs and submit that to IDA for
review; (iv) cause the irrigation systems under the Project to be maintained and inspected periodically in
accordance with sound engineering practices, under arrangements satisfactory to IDA; and (v) prepare and
submit to IDA by December 31, 1998 a water management program for the spate irrigation scheme that will
be included under this project to ensure that the irrigation system (headworks and distribution system) will
serve efficiently and equitably present and new owners in this site.
B. Procurement
3.18   Procurement authority would be as agreed at the 1995 CPPR: the project director would approve
contracts up to US$200,000 and the Minister of Agriculture would approve contracts US$200,000 to US$ 1.0
million. Any contract awards beyond that level would be approved by the High Tender Board (US$1.0 - 3.0
million) or the cabinet (procurements over US$3.0 million).
3.19   Principal items to be procured under the project would be: civil works - land development contracts;
equipment - pump equipment, vehicles; and services - technical assistance and a broad range of support
activities, as described above (paras. 2.12 ff, and 3.13).
3.20  IDA will act as IFAD's cooperating agency, and will administer disbursements and procurement for
IFAD financing. Procurement of goods and works would be according to IDA Procurement Guidelines
(January 1995). ICB would apply: for goods of a contract value above US$200,000, and civil works of a
contract value above US$1 million. Contracts for works below US$1 million and goods between US$50,000
and US$200,000 would be procured through national competitive bidding (NCB). Goods estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of US$100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$750,000
may be procured through intemational shopping Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$250,000 may be procured through
national shopping. All bidding packages for works, equipment, materials and vehicles estimated to cost
US$200,000 equivalent or more would be subject to prior IDA review of procurement documentation. Other
contracts would be subject to ex-post review after the contract award. These limits would result in prior
review of about 75 percent of total IDA financing and about 90 percent of IDA financing of contract works by
ICB and NCB covering some 25 contracts. An exception to the above would be procurement for the IFAD-
financed community development component, amounting to less than US$2.0 million, which would include
community participation and provision of grants for community projects in water supply and sanitation,
community centers, flood protection works and other local community infrastructure. Goods and works
required for these activities shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. A second
exception would be for procurement of small works under both the off-farm income and community
development components. Works for these components estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an amount not to exceed US$4.0 million equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum,
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including



16                                                                 Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation
for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Services for consultants, training, and studies would follow the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants (January 1997). Two training contracts for support to the livestock component and to the
business development activity would be procured through international competition under the Quality and
Cost Based Selection Process. All other contracts are expected to cost less than $100,000 and would follow
the selection process based on consultants' qualifications and the process for selecting individual consultants.
All contracts for the employment of consultants estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more for consulting
firms and $50,000 equivalent or more for individual consultants would be subject to IDA's prior review. All
other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by IDA. Procurement procedures were agreed at
negotiations.
Table 3.1: Amount and Methods of Procurement
(US$ millions)
Project Element                                                       Procurement Method (USS M)l 
ICB          NCB          NIF 1/        OTHER         TOTAL
LandAcquisition                                                                      3.35                         3.35
Civil Works                                               14.11         0.44                                     14.55
IFAD/IDA) 2/                                            (14.11)        (0.44)                                   (14.55)
(IFAD)
(IDA)                                                   (14.11)        (0.44)                                   (14.55)
Equipment 3/                                              2.73          0.99                        0.21          3.93
(IFAD/IDA)                                               (2.73)        (0.60)                      (0.21)        (3.53)
(IFAD)                                                                                             (0.21)       (0.21)
(IDA)                                                    (2.73)        (0.60)                                   (3.33)
Vehicles                                                  0.73                                                    0.73
(IFAD/IDA)                                               (0.72)                                                 (0.72)
|(IFAD)                                                  (0.12)                                                 (0.12)
(IDA)                                                    (0.60)                                                 (0.60)
Consultancy Services and Training 4/                                                                8.42          8.42
(IFAD/IDA)                                                                                         (8.20)       (8.20)
(IFAD)                                                                                             (5.60)        (5.60)
(IDA)                                                                                             (2.60)        (2.60)
Operating & Recurrent Costs                                                                         4.31          4.31
(IFAD)                                                                                             (0.52)        (0.52)
(IDA)                                                                                              (1.21)       (1.21
Farm Establishment & Development Fund                                                               9.50          9.50
(IFAD)                                                                                             (4.82)       (4.82)
(IDA)                                                                                              (1.38)       (1.38)
Sector Study & Project Preparation                         1.02                                                   1.02
(IFAD)
(IDA)                                                    (1.02)                                                 (1.02)
Total                                                    18.59          1.43          3.35         22.44         45.80
(IFAD)                                                   (0.12)                          -        (11.15)       (11.27)
(IDA)                                                   (18.46)        (1.04)                      (5.19)       (24.70)
Note: Total may not add up due to rounding.
1/ NIF: Not IDA or IFAD financed (land acquisition).
2/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IFAD and IDA.
3/ National and International Shopping would be used to procure some of these goods which are not procured by ICB.
4/ Consultants and TA services recruited in accordance to IFAD's and IDA's Consultants Guidelines



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                           17
C. Disbursements, Accounts and Audits
Disbursements
3.21   The credit would be disbursed over an estimated six and a half years. The disbursement profile is
based on the standard disbursement profile in the MENA region, adapted to the particular features of the
proposed project. IDA would not finance the costs of land nor any tax or tax element. The closing date for
the Credit would be June 30, 2004. The Project Preparation Advance would be refunded from the Credit upon
effectiveness. Disbursements would be by category as follows:
Table 3.2: Disbursements by Category
(millions)
Category                 ID)A Amount             Foreign %       Local %
SDR        US$
equivalent
Civil Works               9.6         13.4          100%      95%
Goods, Equipment and      3.0          4.2          100%      100% ex
Vehicles                                                     factory
80% locally
produced
Technical Assistance, Training  3.2    4.5          100%      100%
and Studies
Operating Expenses        0.7          1.0          100%      100%
PPA                       0.2          0.3      Amount Due
Unallocated                1.0         1.3
TOTAL                     17.7        24.7                   1              1
3.22   Disbursement for contracts for civil works, goods and services to be made on the basis of statements
of expenditure for expenditures would be as follows: (i) civil works under contracts of less than US$1 million
equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts of less than US$200,000 equivalent; (iii) contracts for consulting
services not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; (iv) contracts for individual consultants and training not
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent; and (v) operating costs under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. All other disbursements would be fully documented.
Special Account
3.23   To facilitate d;sbursements, a Special Account of value US$500,000 (equivalent to about four months
of cash flow for the relevant expenditures) would be established in a commercial bank in Seiyun. Assurances
to this effect were received at negotiations.
Accounts and Audits
3.24   The Project Management Unit (PMU) would be responsible for project budgeting and accounting. The
PMU would install accounting and budgetary management information systems, to be operational at the start of
the 1998 financial year. Systems would incorporate intemal controls and checks. Accounting and procurement
monitoring will be computerized. The Finance Manager and his group (para. 3.8) would be responsible for
developing these systems, with input from the monitoring and evaluation specialist on the management
information systems. The Finance Manager and his group would prepare the chart of accounts and the
accounting manual, and will be responsible for producing monthly statements on expenditure against budget, on
the special account and on disbursements on sub-projects. The group will produce the annual accounting
statements ready for audit within two months of the year end. All these statements will be made available to the



18                                                    Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
Steering Committee and to IDA. The PMU would seek any necessary consultant support and finance is provided
for this under the project.
3.25 PMU autonomy needs to be balanced by internal controls and external supervision. Project accounts
would be audited by private auditors from a national or international accounting firm, selected by the Steering
Committee and subject to the approval of IDA. Assurances to this effect were received at negotiations. The
auditor will be selected before the start of the 1998 financial year and terns of reference will be agreed withIDA.
The project's audited accounts and the auditors' report would be submitted annually to the Steering Committee.
The committee would take note of the auditors' report before passing on the report and the audited accounts to
IDA, within six months of the end of the accounting period. It is expected that the firm selected would also
provide accounting system design support to the PMU, including help with the initial system design.
D. Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation
Monitoring
3.26   Monitoring of project implementation and impact would be continuous throughout the project. The
basis would be the key performance indicators developed in the design summary (Annex 1), which were agreed
at negotiations. The detailed monitoring framework would be designed and supervised by the monitoring and
evaluation specialist. The finance manager and the M&E specialist would be jointly responsible for the
Management Information System (MIS). Monitoring by the beneficiary target groups of project execution and
impact would be built in from the start, involving at least one formal meeting a year in each community.
3.27  In order to track the impact of the project on incomes and welfare at the household level, a limited
number of families would be monitored regularly throughout the project by the M&E system set up by the
project's M&E Specialist.
Supervision
3.28   A project launch workshop would be held shortly before the expected date of effectiveness. This
would provide "just in time" training in procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing and management
procedures. Thereafter, regular IDA supervision would take place every six months, according to a
supervision plan that was worked out at appraisal (see Annex 10). Supervision would be led from the Yemen
Resident Mission, with support from headquarters. This will allow close and frequent follow-up, particularly
in the initial stages of the project. Supervision resources required are estimated at 25 weeks in FY98, and
thereafter 18 weeks annually, with a special provision of additional resources in FY 2001 to conduct the
proposed mid-term review (para. 3.29). At least once a year, supervision missions would contain a financial
analyst to verify procedures and give some hands-on training.
Mid-Term Review
3.29  In view of its novel implementation methodology and to allow for redesign and adjustment of project
inputs and components, a mid-term review should take place late in the third year of the project (target date -
November 2000). It would involve a social scientist specialised in participatory approaches, specialists in
irrigation, finance, project management, off-farm/SME, and others according to need. The mid-term evaluation
would examine the status of project execution and impact. It would also canvas the opinions of a representative
sample of beneficiaries. As necessary, it would propose restructuring or reallocation of funds and propose
methodological changes for the continuation of the project.



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                             19
Impact Evaluation
3.30   Impact evaluation by an independent monitoring team would be conducted towards the end of the
project implementation period. It would be appropriate to repeat the exercise about eight or nine years after
project start up, i.e., two or three years after completion. The basic reference would be the development
objectives and the related performance indicators listed in the design summary. Ways in which the second
impact evaluation would be conducted and financed (the evaluation would be well after the IDA Credit had
closed) would be examined during implementation and decided at the time of the first evaluation.
Completion Report
3.31   Not later than six months after the completion of the project, the Govemment would submit to IDA a
Project Completion Report summarizing the achievements of the project and its impact vis-a-vis objectives.
Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations.
E. Cost Recovery
3.32   Beneficiaries would contribute about US$4.1 million (11 percent of project costs) to cover half the cost
of irrigated farm establishment, pumps and engines for irrigation. The quantum to be recovered has been set at
15 percent of net income (a level that is affordable by the averagely performing farmer on the lowest yielding
project land site (the worst case scenario). During the work of the Committee for the Selection of Beneficiaries,
the cost recovery provision proved a practical means of identifying able and suitable candidates, as only those
with the necessary management skills were prepared to accept land on these terms. Capital repayments would be
made over fifteen years with three years grace commencing from the start of the farming operations. The
Government shall appoint a financial institution satisfactory to the Association to collect the mortgage payments.
The repayments would be made to an escrow account according to a legally enforceable schedule contained in a
covenant to the land title. The funds in the escrow account would be used for local community projects. In the
event of default and after exhausting all possible remedies, the defaulting beneficiary would be obliged to
surrender the land, which would then be reallocated to a fresh beneficiary according to the same criteria and
process as used in the original allocation. Assurances on this were received at negotiations.
F. Project Sustainability
3.33   Sustainability of project interventions would be assured through the following main characteristics of
the project: (i) land development would only take place on sites where water availability is sustainable (see
para 4.12 and paras 4.19-4.20) and the basic knowledge for sustained, profitable farming is available; (ii) cost
recovery would ensure the commitment of beneficiaries and would ensure the financial sustainability of the
water user associations; (iii) the off-farm component would be market-driven - all activities would aim at
ensuring sustainability of the micro- and small enterprises established through finance, business and technical
support; (iv) institutionally the project would achieve sustainability through the provision of the necessary
support to community organizations to enable them to manage their affairs more efficiently by the end of the
project; and (v) the training and experience gained by the participatory development coordinators in the
project unit would create a small pool of experienced staff whose capacity could be used by other projects in
the country in the future, thus promoting the practice of participatory rural development in Yemen. Similarly,
the business development advisors would be in an excellent position to strengthen and support SEDU or SFD
after the project, thanks to the experience and training gained through their work in the project. The project's
organization/management arrangements, however, are not intended to endure beyond project end.
Sustainability here is intended primarily at the level of the target beneficiary group.



20                                                    Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
IV. BENEFITS, RISKS AND IMPACTS
A. Benefits
Quantified Benefits
4.1    The project would supplement the means of economic livelihood for about 8,750 very poor
individuals and their families (50-60,000 people), together with improvements in welfare arising from
community development activities for a total of up to 150,000 people. The farm units of 2 ha would generate
incomes of between $2,600 and $4,000 per farm family, varying according to the crop mix (2 ha has been set
as the size that can be managed by a family and that provides a good income). These incomes are based on
conservatively estimated yields and prices for the area (e.g. onions 15-18 t/ha, tomatoes 10-15 tlha, sesame
0.6-1.2 t/ha), and on cropping intensities of 90-110 percent, which are below best practice in the region. For
the fisheries component, annual fish catch per boat is expected to be 28 tons (based on experience with
existing fishing operations under the ongoing Fisheries IV project), generating incomes in excess of $3,000 a
year for 280 poor families. Other revenue-earning enterprise activities (business advice, skills training, credit,
etc.) are expected to provide greater surety of income and new-found employment or business for about 6,000
beneficiaries. Three quarters of them are expected to attain annual earnings of between $500 and $1,000 a
year. Improvements in women's animal husbandry are expected to generate annual income of about $185,000
throughout the project area, supplementing the incomes of many women. The figure for other-revenue
earning activities are based on information on the local market collected during preparation.
Non-Quantified Benefits
4.2    Benefits from the Community Development Component. The benefits from the community
development component would include better community relations; greater ability to deal successfully with
the authorities to obtain services and support; improved health due to repair and rehabilitation of domestic
water supplies and drainage systems; and benefits from environmental awareness and actions. Although these
benefits are largely non-quantifiable, the success of this component would be evaluated in the scheduled
community monitoring meetings (para. 3.26).
4.3    Other Benefits. The project is intended to pioneer two new approaches to rural development in Yemen.
First, although there have been some pilot projects to test participation approaches to rural development, the
proposed project would be the first full-scale project in Yemen to work in partnership with rural communities.
Second, the proposed "business" approach to project implementation (para. 3.1) would test a new solution to the
problems of implementing rural development projects in Yemen. If these approaches are successful, there would
be an important benefit in the lesson for future projects.
B. Economic and Financial Evaluation
4.4   The full economic analysis is set out in Annex 3. Using the above projected benefits and the project
costs, and allowing for periodic asset replacements, individual components have the following EIRRs:
Land Allocation and Development (various sites)
- new land development                         9.17-16.57 percent
- rehabilitation                               21.89-28.19 percent
Livestock                                             19.64 percent
Fisheries                                            179.79 percent



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                                   21
4.5    For the land allocation and development component, the analysis was conducted separately for each
region and type of development, with a cut-off ERR of 10 percent.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.6    A sensitivity analysis was conducted on key project risks. The sensitivities modeled correspond to the
risks discussed in Section C. below. The analysis has been carried out only on the land development
component as: (i) this is the largest component subject to cost benefit analysis; (ii) the risks impact
predominantly on this component; and (iii) some of the ERRs for this component are close to or at the cut off
point. The risks modeled are:
Risk                  Description of Risk Modeled                    ERR range
-       Base case                                                  9-28%
#1       Divergence of 5% p.a. between official and market exchange rates  negative - 17%
(macroeconomic risk)
#2       Civil works costs increase by 30% (project complexity)     4-24%
# 3      Crop benefits decrease by 25% (water resources risk)       negative - 18%
# 4      Pumping costs increase by 50% (water resources risk)       2-21%
# 5      Farms in service decrease by 20% (land tenure risk)        5-23%
# 6      Cropping intensity reaches 1.0 only after five years (farm  9-28%
productivity risk)
The results of the sensitivity analysis show that for all but one of the risks modeled, some of the land
development component ERRs would drop below 10 percent This underlines the importance of: (i) the
mitigating and risk-avoiding measures that have been built into the project and which are discussed in Section
C below; and (ii) the need for close monitoring of all parameters throughout implementation (see para 3.26 ff)
for details).
Financial Evaluation
4.7    The financial rates of return to the project are in the range 15-187 percent (see Project File). Incomes
accruing to project beneficiaries would be adequate to raise all beneficiaries significantly above the poverty line
(estimated at US$85/person/year). A cost-effectiveness comparison between the proposed "business" approach
to project implementation and the alternative of implementing the project through a regular Government agency
shows that the proposed "business" approach would save about 60 percent on overhead in comparison to the
alternative (this was estimated by analysing the cost of MAWR executing the project through its Provincial
Departments of Agriculture; the calculation includes assumptions about implementation delays and cost overruns
that are based on actual experience in public sector-implemented projects in Yemen).
C. Risks and Issues
4.8    Macroeconomic Risk. The following are the main specific macroeconomic assumptions that would
condition success (see project design summary in Annex 1): (i) continued macroeconomic stabilisation; and (ii)
continued Government support for a decentralised rural poverty alleviation program as a major development
goal. Indications are that these assumptions are realistic and do not present a high risk. The macroeconomic



22                                                     Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
stabilization program is on track and Government is negotiating a new facility with the IMF and a new
adjustment operation with IDA. Nonetheless, the macroeconomic context is vital. The sensitivity analysis below
shows the impact of just one macroeconomic parameter going off track (Risk # 1 models the impact of a
divergence between official and market exchange rates). Although this risk presently appears unlikely to
materialise, the results of the sensitivity analysis underscore the need for careful monitoring and for sustained
dialogue at the macroeconomic level in order to provide an enabling environment for the project to succeed.
4.9    Regarding Government support for decentralized rural poverty operations, Government has worked
actively with NGOs and donors on poverty alleviation and has made a commitment to major operations for
poverty alleviation (paras 1.8 and 1.12). There is a strong historic tradition of decentralised self-management and
community involvement in the development process, and this is reinforced not only by Government's present
policy and practice but also by a strong self-help movement from communities themselves. Donors at the recent
Consultative Group meeting showed strong support for this approach, and are backing it up with several
externally-financed initiatives in the way of decentralised and community led development. The risk that this
approach will not be sustained are therefore small.
4.10   Institutional Risk. Experience with IDA projects in the rural sector has been mixed, with problems of
both implementation and sustainability. The implementation strategy for the proposed project goes a long way to
reduce this risk - relying upon a demand-driven, field-oriented way of working; a "business approach" to
management with properly paid and qualified staff; decentralization in implementation; transparency and
accountability; and autonomy from over-bureaucratic procedures. However, the implementation design involves
innovative experiments and would require political commitment and good management to make it work.
Government has endorsed the proposed approach, and has acted decisively to create the steering committee and
the PMU, and to appoint the project director (para 3.1 ff). At the local level, the governors for the project areas
are committed to quick results on the ground. The early appointment of the project director will help to get early
results, so that the project could generate its own momentum of support.
Project Level Risks and Their Resolution
4.11   Project Complexity. One of the lessons from IDA lending experience has been that project design
should be as simple as possible. The sensitivity analysis (para 4.6) shows the possible impact of project
complexity leading to delays and cost increases (Risk # 2 modelled), and project design therefore focused on
maintaining as simple a design as is consistent with achieving project objectives and on ensuring workable
management arrangements. During preappraisal and appraisal, components of the proposed project were
reduced (the fisheries component) or eliminated (a proposed traditional building component) and the resulting
project has, in fact, a simple structure and a manageable implementation strategy. The key features are:
community dialogue and involvement as the unifying mechanism for project activities; the business approach to
project management; and implementation through contractors under supervision rather than by a heavy in-house
capacity. Although the project is spread geographically across five separated regions, this is nonetheless a viable
project area as the project intervenes in a finite number of communities (40) and staff are mandated to be highly
mobile and to use all means of communication (including the recently reintroduced cellular telephones, together
with fax, radio etc.). The project is thus manageable, provided the PMU is endowed with the powers and
attributes described in Chapter III. This again underlines the essential nature of the conditionality attached to the
PMU (para. 3.1 ff).
4.12   Risks Regarding Water Resources. Water scarcity is a major constraint in Yemen, and the economic
consequences on the project if water were to be insufficient or if pumping costs were to increase are very
striking (see Risks # 3 and 4 in the sensitivity analysis, para 4.6). Therefore, close attention was paid to the issue
throughout the preparation and appraisal process. Availability of sustainable water has been a prime factor in



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                          23
determining the sites which have been adopted for land development. During identification and preparation, site
investigations were carried out and the large number of existing studies of water resources and data collected by
public agencies were analyzed, including the nationwide Water Resources Assessment of Yemen (General
Department of Hydrogeology, with Netherlands Government aid), the survey of Wadi Hadramawt resources
(Murdoch McDonald, IDA-financed) and numerous local and regional surveys. As a result, Lahej governorate
was excluded from land development activities and only limited areas were selected in Abyan and Shabwa.
Further work was done at appraisal, when the mission included a hydrogeologist. Subsequent work published on
Hadramawt from a Canadian consultant study (KOMEX) confirms the adequacy of sustainable water in that area.
Based on these existing studies, new field work and expert opinion, sites have only been included where
extraction of water is sustainable. Proposed development of water resources under the project has been discussed
with the National Water Resources Authority (NWRA), which is responsible for approving water resource uses.
In addition, support is being provided under this and other projects for water monitoring and management.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government (through NWRA) would (i) submit to IDA by
December 31, 1998 and prepare a plan to control groundwater development in the project areas and limit
abstraction of each aquifer to those recommended by the available hydrological studies, and (ii) submit to IDA
by January 31 of each year an annual report on groundwater monitoring and assessment for each of the project
areas. More specific measures are discussed below (para. 4.20).
4.13   Risks Regarding Land Tenure. In the fluid conditions that prevailed in the southern govemorates
after unification and the civil war of 1994, there were many land claims. Notwithstanding the multiple
precautions taken during project preparation to deal with claims, and to drop sites where title was seriously
contested, under the Constitution of Yemen, citizens are always entitled to lodge claims, however speculative.
The sensitivity analysis carried out on the project rate of return (para. 4.6) shows that if problems over land
tenure were to reduce the number of farms in service (Risk #5 in the sensitivity analysis), project viability
would be at risk. However, this risk has been minimized by the actions of Government in clearing claims and
asserting and assigning freehold title, and also by the community validation procedure followed to select
beneficiaries (para. 2.14). This process has gone as far as possible to reduce the risk that further claims are
made on the lands once allocated, as there is both a formal declaration and assignment of a clean title
underwritten by government and a community commitment to the agreed distribution. Two further steps have
been built in to ensure that no claims could be made on land once developed. First, the sites would be
demarcated, further announcements made in the newspapers, and any resulting claims would be adjudicated
before the tender for development is launched. Second, Government would grant freehold title on plots to
beneficiaries before land is developed (para. 2.14).
4.14   Risks Regarding Farm Productivity. As beneficiaries receiving land are poor, they may be risk
averse and also have problems of access to investment and working capital. In addition, there is a risk that
markets may not be steady or able to absorb output, particularly high value produce. These risks could
threaten the economic justification of the project, as shown by Risk # 6 in the sensitivity analysis (para. 4.6).
These risks would be avoided by the emphasis placed on support to farmers in the early years of farming to
provide training, access to inputs and credit. The high grade contract extension services would help farmers
to prepare professional business plans matching produce to markets, and would ease fanner access to bank
financing. This risk also reinforced the case for farmers to share in the costs (para. 3.32), in order to ensure
that they have the incentive to earn the maximum possible return from their farming. Finally, the allocation
of land to beneficiaries on a freehold basis (para. 2.14) would both increase farmer incentives and ease access
to credit.
Remedies
4.15   Risks have been thoroughly analyzed and minimizing, avoiding and mitigating measures have been
deployed. Monitoring of all critical assumptions and risks would be continuous throughout the project period
(through project monitoring and evaluation, supervision missions, mid-term review, independent evaluation).



24                                                     Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
In the event that these or other risks nonetheless threaten implementation, and the government would not
implement agreed upon solutions, then remedies would be employed, going from restructuring to cancellation.
Alternatives Considered and Strategic Choices
4.16   During identification and preparation the following alternative design elements were considered and
rejected:
(a)  no land development - because of the comparatively high cost of land development, the possibility
of a project without land was considered. This was rejected by Government and IDA because: (i)
the target population were farmers and knew best how to farm; (ii) the process of consulting
beneficiaries threw up an overwhelming preference for land; (iii) despite high cost, land
development offered the most assured and stable return of any component (and it had an
acceptable rate of return); and (iv) land development was seen by both Government and
communities as an "anchor" that held together the other project interventions.
(b) development of private lands and their transfer to beneficiaries - because many of the returning
owners were not interested in farming, the preparation and appraisal missions examined the
possibility that the project might invest in rehabilitation of private lands and their transfer to
beneficiaries. However, this proved impracticable as it would have involved either Government
purchasing the land from the owners - which was against public policy - or a long term mortgage-
style arrangement whereby beneficiaries would have committed themselves to capital repayments
to owners over an extended period before they received clear title. As the term of this
arrangement would have gone well beyond the life of the IDA Credit, IDA and Government
considered that the guarantees that the landowners would honor their side of the bargain were
inadequate. However, at negotiations, it was agreed that consultant services would be retained
under the project to investigate whether this approach could be tested on a pilot basis, with
appropriate safeguards to protect the beneficiaries.
(c)  implementation of the off-farm and community development components through another
agency - at the time of appraisal, the new Social Fund for Development was being set up, and the
mission reviewed the feasibility that implementation of these two components could be transferred
to the Social Fund which had similar objectives and activities. However, the management of the
Social Fund decided against this option as it was itself an embryonic institution and was unwilling
to take on extensive field commitments. Instead, it was agreed that the two projects would
cooperate in fields of mutual interest, and that the Social Fund would implement one pilot activity
for the Southern Governorates Project (microfmance pilot) as this was a field in which the Social
Fund had competence and experience.
D. Social Impact
4.17   The project is expected to have a direct impact on the socio-economic status of poor people in
particularly poor areas. This target group has been well defined (in the Participatory Needs Assessment (para.
2.1) and improvements would be monitored regularly during and after the project development period (para. 3.26
ff). In addition to specific monitorable changes in incomes and welfare, the community development component
is expected to contribute to the reintegration and social and economic development of generally poor
communities fragmented by the changes of recent years. The project does not involve any resettlement, as
selection of beneficiaries for the land development has included proximity to the site as one of the selection



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                            25
criteria. The project is not expected to affect tribal peoples nor any related traditional grazing rights on any
significant scale; in fact, most of the beneficiaries live within the tribal system, and would therefore profit. Any
impact on traditional grazing rights would be assessed during the demarcation procedure (para. 2.14) and
appropriate compensation made, but this impact is expected to be minimal or non-existent.
4.18   The project would have a particular impact on women through targeting of specific components under
the direction of the women-in-development adviser (para. 3.9). Targeting would include: women's role in
livestock care, where at least half of the "paravets" trained (250) are expected to be women; and women's role in
other off-farm activities where a number of handicraft activities would be developed and promoted specifically
for women. For all relevant activities, there would be special training arrangements for women. Half of those to
receive training in technical skills (1,500) are expected to be women.
E. Environmental Impact
4.19   The project carries a number of moderate environmental risks, especially with respect to water
management, sustainable land use, and sustainable farming practices. The subprojects under the community
development fund subcomponent would have summary environmental assessments and, where relevant,
mitigation plans. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Water Management
4.20   The availability of groundwater is a major constraint in Yemen and groundwater availability has been
a major factor in designing the land development component. In addition to the safeguards discussed above
(para. 4.12), project development would be phased at one site (Khabt al Asloom), in order to assess the water
situation before completing the scheme. No groundwater development would take place in coastal
Hadramawt or in Lahej where water resources are limited and mainly fulfilling urban demand. In addition, in
order to assess water use and flow, and to encourage farmers in sustainable water use, the project would
require and finance water meters on the wells drilled under the project.
4.21   The drilling of deeper wells brings a risk of contamination of lower aquifers through leakage from
surface water or the higher aquifer. The risk would be mitigated through careful site selection and through
requiring the sealing off the upper aquifers by concrete/grout casing through the upper aquifers and stainless
steel casing. Well design would be approved by IDA, and execution of well drilling, casing and welding
would be carried out by licensed drilling companies and carefully supervised by project staff, government
(including local water monitoring units) and international consultants.
Sustainable Land Use
4.22   The major environmental risks of farming at the southern governorates are salination of farm land and
wind erosion. In many areas, the salt levels in well water are moderate to critical and do not allow leaching.
Sites where serious risks of salination cannot be mitigated, have therefore been excluded from the project. In
general, the risk would be managed through training of farmers in irrigation management and in leaching
practices. Wind erosion would be reduced through careful monitoring of new constructions in irrigated fields
and through planting wind-breaks.
Sustainable Farming Practices
4.23   High productivity farming in the arid conditions of the southern governorates requires careful on-farm
husbandry, particularly soil and water management. The risk cf sub-optimal farming practices would be
mitigated by training, both through extension and on-site training for farmer groups. The project would not



26                                                     Southern Governorates Rural Development Project
finance pesticides and would encourage the use of integrated pest management techniques. Efforts to enhance
animal health and care would increase efficiency of production and decrease non-productive use of grazing
and water resources.
Biodiversity
4.24   The project would have a minimal effect on biodiversity. The emphasis on traditional practices in
field school- and paravet training, as well as on bee-keeping as an off-farm activity, would increase
appreciation for plant and animal biodiversity, and would enhance the respect for traditional knowledge
systems.
4.25   The fisheries component would not affect the threatened coastal lobster population. Increased coastal
fishing, by providing and equipping a limited number of boats, is not expected to have a measurable impact
on the small (sardine, mackerel) and large pelagic (tuna, sharks, etc.) fish population.
Archeological Sites
4.26   The project is not expected to provide a risk to archeological sites. One proposed irrigation site was
in fact eliminated as it threatened an archaeological site, and others were dropped to avoid affecting the water
table in the cities in the region. Water use near or upstream of these sites would be monitored through the
water meters installed on newly drilled wells. It is expected that there may be some positive impact on the
Naqb al Hajr historic site, by better land management adjacent to the site.
V. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Conditions of Negotiations
The following were conditions of negotiations for the proposed Credit which have been met by Government:
5.1    End to Dispossession. Government issued a decree permanently halting dispossessions (para 2.5).
5.2    Land Allocation. Government formally certified that the 2,900 ha originally to the project are free
from claim, are state property and are assigned irrevocably in freehold to project beneficiaries (para 2.14).
5.3    Creation of the Project and the PMU. Government created by Decree of the Council of Ministers
the project steering committee and management unit (paras 3.1 and 3.2).
5.4    Project Manager. Government appointed a project manager satisfactory to IDA (para 3.11).
B. Assurances Received at Negotiations
The following assurances were received from Government at negotiations:
5.5    Land Allocation. Government will demarcate sites to be developed under the project in accordance
with the Manual of Procedures. Before any particular land site is developed under the project, Government
would grant freehold title - subject to certain covenants as listed in Annex 1 - on each assigned plot to the
beneficiaries (para 2.14).



Southern Governorates Rural Development Project                                           27
5.6    Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account of value US$500,000 will be
established in a commercial bank at Seiyun (para 3.23).
5.7    Project accounts. Project Accounts will be audited by private independent auditors from a national or
intemational accounting firm, selected by the Steering Committee and subject to the approval of IDA. The
project's audited accounts and the auditors' report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the
accounting period (para 3.25).
5.8    Project manual of procedures. The procedures of the PMU are laid down in a manual of
procedures, the text of which was agreed at negotiations (para 3.3).
5.9    Staff and Terms of Reference. Appointment of the four group leaders will be by December 31,
1997 and other key PMU personnel will be appointed by March 31, 1998. Such appointments will be subject
to IDA approval. Terms of reference for all staff were agreed at negotiations (para 3.1 1).
5.10   Annual Work Programs. PMU will prepare Annual Work Programs for presentation through the
Steering Committee to IDA for approval before November 30 of each year. The draft program for the first
year of the project was agreed at negotiations (para 3.12).
5.11   Operation and Maintenance. Arrangements for operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes
were agreed at negotiations (para. 3.17)
5.12   Procurement. Procedures were agreed at negotiatlons (para 3.20).
5.13   Performance Indicators. Based on the project design summary (Annex 1), performance indicators
for the project were agreed at negotiations (para 3.26).
5.14   Completion Report. Not later than six months after the completion of the project, the Government
will submit to IDA a Project Completion Report summarizing the achievements of the project and its impact
vis-a-vis objectives (para 3.31).
5.15   Cost Recovery. Arrangements for cost recovery were finalized at negotiations (para 3.32).
5.16   Groundwater Monitoring. Government will regularly monitor groundwater levels in the project
area (para. 4.12)
5.17   Environmental Assessment. Community development fund subprojects will have environmental
assessments (para. 4.19).



I



Annex I
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Land Allocation and Development (Base cost US$ 24.9 million)
1.    This component would comprise a series of activities designed to establish about 1,950 very poor
landless families in sustainable new farming operations on about 3,900 ha.
2.    Land Allocation. This would comprise the assignment of secure title for lands to be developed
or rehabilitated under the project to poor rural families, largely those who were dispossessed under
Yemen's reprivatization of farm land. The process of ensuring that the state has clear title to the lands to
be developed under the project has been a major activity (and success) of the project preparation process.
Government has issued a decree that formally certifies that the lands are free from claim, are state
property and are assigned irrevocably in freehold to project beneficiaries. Action on this was a condition
of negotiations. As a next step, Government will demarcate the sites, place further announcements in the
newspapers, and adjudicate any claims arising, informing IDA of its actions. In addition, before any
particular land site is developed under the project, Government will grant freehold title on each assigned
plot to the beneficiaries. The freehold would be subject to covenants that would ensure that the
beneficiaries would use the land for the purpose intended' . The criteria and process for selecting
beneficiaries of the land have been worked out to ensure that land is allocated to the poorest amongst
capable farmers and that the community fully accepts and endorses the allocation. The selection criteria
are: (i) poverty recognized by the community; (ii) proximity of dwelling to the site proposed; (iii) ability
to farm the land effectively; and (iv) willingness to enter into the obligations accompanying the title,
including the cost recovery obligations. A participatory process of selecting beneficiaries and obtaining
community validation has been conducted, and about two thirds of the beneficiary farmers have already
been selected on 22 sites in three governorates . The balance of the beneficiary farmers will be selected
closer to the time when land development begins.
3.    Land Development and Rehabilitation. About 3,900 hectares of irrigated land would be
developed or rehabilitated. About three quarters of the land (2,900 ha) comprises specific sites which
have been appraised from the technical, economic, social and legal standpoints. About one quarter
(1,000 ha) is land that was added to the project only at negotiations when cofinancing for its
development under the IDA-supported Wadi Hadramawt III Project was canceled. The technical and
to cultivate the land themselves, or with the help of nuclear family members;
- not to drill any shallow wells, individually or in smaller groups;
- to participate in irrigation network operation and maintenance, and in the activities and decisions of
their WUA according to the terms decided by the irrigation group;
- not to sell the land for a period of a minimum of 10 years;
- not to use the land for non-agricultural purposes.



Annex I
Page 2 of 11
economic characteristics of this land are equivalent or superior to the land that has been fully appraised,
and detailed studies will be completed in the first year of the project. The same selection criteria
(detailed in the Manual of Procedures) will be applied as for existing sites. In the event of any sites
proving unsatisfactory, there are ample alternatives. In fact, total land allocated to the project, prima
facie Government land free of claims and which is technically and economically viable, is considerably
more. In the event that any problem arose with any proposed project site before development another
site could thus be substituted.
4.    New Land Development would include the drilling of wells, the equipping of the wells with diesel
pumps and engines, the conveyance of water from wells to fields and the levelling of fields. Reclamation of
some lands which are sandy or saline would be needed.
5.    The average base cost per hectare of new land development is about $6,200. Well depths would
vary between sites, averaging 160 m (with up to 40m screen length per well) in Wadi Hadramawt, 70 m
in Shabwa and 87 m in Abyan. Well design will be based on diligent supervision at every stage of well
construction, development and test pumping. Sites in Wadi Hadramawt average 60 ha; those in Shabwa
are over 200 ha each; and those in Abyan over 400 ha each. Each beneficiary would receive a plot of 2
hectares size, which is adequate to maintain an average family. Farms would be arranged around wells,
with each well serving 5 -12 farms. Farmers would be organized in small groups and would cooperate in
operating and maintaining the wells, pumps and equipment, which would be the property of the group as
a whole. The group would also be responsible for all future capital replacements.
6.    Land rehabilitation would comprise about 750 hectares already developed for irrigation and
which was previously farmed by government as "state farms". The land to be rehabilitated is located on
three old "state farms" in Hadramawt Governorate, ranging in size from 130 ha to 385 ha.. The average
rehabilitation cost per ha is $880/ha. Land would be allocated in 2 ha plots as for new land, but
arrangements for farmer organisation and for operation and maintenance would vary by site depending on
the nature and layout of the irrigation system. One site, for example, has a number of wells discharging into
a main canal which serves relatively large farm areas; in this situation, all the farmers in the command area
would have to organise themselves to take responsibility for management of the system.
7.    There is an urgent need to resume regular and systematic groundwater monitoring at all well sites in
the Wadi Hadramawt region and to support ongoing monitoring programs in other project areas. This will
be done through the existing monitoring units and under the coordination of the National Water Resources
Authority (NWRA). In Wadi Hadramawt, the existing monitoring unit at Seiyun would be strengthened. In
the other two governorates, the monitoring units set up under the Land and Water Conservation Project
would conduct the monitoring..
8.    Crop Development. Support to crop development will be organized to help the new owners to
establish themselves. This support would include training and extension, help to access credit for
equipment and inputs, and material support to farm establishment, including leaching, deep ploughing,
canal construction, tree planting and soil amendment.



Annex I
Page 3 of 11
Off-Farm Income Development (Base cost US$ 5.0 million)
9.    This component would comprise three sets of activities designed to create sustainable sources of
income for poor rural people within the target communities in activities for which they have a comparative
advantage and for which there is a market. The interest of the target group to take up these opportunities
has been established through the participatory preparation process.
10.   Support for Livestock Development. Many poor landless people, particularly women, survive
from the income from livestock rearing, and this component is designed to increase the productivity of
livestock and the incomes from it. The component would provide simple training in animal health and
care to about 500 poor villagers, at least half of them women, and provide each person trained with a
minimal "care" package of some equipment and medicines. The trained villagers would act as
"paraveterinarians" and would provide services both to their own animals and to other livestock owners
in their village; they will charge for their services, and gain full- or part-time employment.
Replenishment of medicines can be done through the market. International experience, and some limited
experience in Yemen, have shown that this activity should bring high pay-offs.
11.   Support for Fishing. Artisanal fishing is an important and profitable occupation of a large part
of the rural population along the coast. Some of the project target group - poor young landless farmers -
have indeed already taken up fishing, but there are constraints to entry and the project intends to
stimulate further employment generation in the fisheries sector. The component would select and train
about 280 participants in fishing skills and arrange for their practical "apprenticeship" with established
fishing boats. Initially, participants will receive six weeks of basic skill training in classes held in five or
six locations on the coast. Each class will contain 20-40 students and be led by an experienced instructor
with one or two assistants. After completing this basic course, the students will be assigned to work with
existing fishermen as apprentices, with the boat owner receiving a modest fee to take and train the
newcomer. The apprenticeship program would last one to two years, depending on individual
arrangements. Two week long training courses in advanced topics would be held for the students after
about 12 and 18 months of apprenticeship. Upon successful completion of the apprenticeship program,
the students would be eligible to participate in the revolving credit schemes established under the IDA
and IFAD-financed Fisheries IV Project (Cr. 2265-YE) in order to purchase their own boats and gear.
An international technical expert has been included to develop a training curriculum and monitor the
quality of the program. The local fisheries cooperative will administer the apprenticeship program. The
program would be limited to the south coast in areas west of Mukalla. This is because in Mukalla, and
east of there, ample opportunities exist for alternative employment. In Shabwa, some rehabilitation of
on-shore facilities will be necessary, and it is expected that this work will be carried out in the context of
the Fisheries IV Project.
12.   Promotion of Other Revenue-Earning Services and Enterprises. This component would
provide assistance to beneficiaries to set up or develop very small or small businesses ("micro and small
enterprises", MSEs, or to acquire technical skills training they need to find productive employment.
While being poor is the overriding characteristic of the target group, opportunities for income generation
would vary based on individual characteristics, geographical areas, and community infrastructure.
Phased implementation of MSE development and technical skills training would occur based on findings
of subsector analysis and market studies as well as community dialogue. The project would pilot
activities in both financial and non-financial service delivery. Because there is little experience within



Annex I
Page 4 of 11
the project areas in MSE development, a number of approaches would be used. As experience is gained,
methods and activities would be adjusted accordingly.
13.   The component would comprise four activities:
(a)    Analysis and development of economic subsectors that have particular promise for
absorbing new rural entrants. This is an upstream activity that will help define the other
three activities, and would also lead to specific project interventions. Priority subsectors
are those which include large numbers of the target population or subsectors which are
growing and offer opportunities for the target population. Examples of possible priority
subsectors include garnent manufacturing (large number of women), building
construction (growth potential), wool products (large number of target population
rearing sheep and producing wool products), handicrafts (large number of women), and
specific agricultural commodities important in the project areas. Types of interventions
might include developing market linkages (between MSEs and a larger enterprise),
facilitating subcontracting relationships, forming trade or business associations to
provide lower cost material sourcing, specific skill training, etc. The identification of
priority subsectors and the management of project interventions would be done by
project staff.
(b)   The second project activity under this component would be to provide basic business
training/information. Many of the project's target population are unemployed or
without skills or have no experience in how to start a business or develop a business
idea. In addition, some project clients would receive technical skills training and will
want to use this training to start-up their own enterprise and be in need of basic business
training. This business training would be offered in group formats for cost-effectiveness
and will initially use course materials that have been used successfully in the region or
other countries. Project staff would directly manage this activity.
(c)    During project preparation, communities expressed demand for a number of businesses
for which they believed there was a local market and which would require technical
skills training if the target population were to gain employment or start MSEs. The third
activity under this component would therefore be technical training. This provides
opportunities for apprenticeships combined with intensive short-term training During
project implementation, community and market assessments will further define the
potential for specific technical training activities. The project would contract with
existing vocational training centers (VTCs) and other training institutes in the project
area to deliver training, as well as with private businesses willing to provide
apprenticeship and/or employment opportunities.
(d)    The fourth activity to be conducted under this component would be to pilot the
development offinancial services for off-farm activities. The provision of MSE credit
has been shown to be an effective way of increasing the incomes and assets of poor
people worldwide. In Yemen, the unmet demand for MSE finance has been estimated by



Annex 1
Page 5 of 11
the well-established Small Enterprise Development Unit (SEDU)I and by others to be
very strong. Microfinance (finance in the range of US$50-US$1,000) can assist in the
start-up or growth of microenterprises needing little capital or training. In addition,
many potential enterprises which were identified during the preparation process require a
larger investment, generally in the $1,000-$3,000 range (as well as technical/business
training). Typically, this investment might finance the purchase of tools or a machine.
Therefore, two types of pilot projects are planned: microfinance (which includes
savings) and small enterprise credit. To leverage other resources, the project will
contract with other institutions which have an advantage for piloting MSE finance
activities in the project area: the Social Fund for Development (SFD) for a microfinance
project (advantage is that SFD wishes to invest in building the capacity of their staff in
this field) and SEDU for small enterprise lending (advantage is that SEDU has
experience and is planning on building a nationwide capability).
14.   Up to 3000 project clients (half of them women) will receive technical skills training. At least
seventy percent of these clients are expected to initiate (or expand) MSEs or obtain employment through
skills training. Over 1300 clients will receive business training (both those that receive technical skills/
apprenticeship training and those that do not). Over 3000 clients are expected to receive microfinancial
services and another 200 or more clients will receive small loans. Other subsector interventions are
expected to benefit at least 500 project clients (through provision of lower cost inputs, for examnple).
Important project benefits include the development of sustainable MSE finance activities, as well as the
testing and development of MSE training materials in the project areas.
15.   One problem with starting a new program in off-farm income generation is that there is so little
experience in Yemen that inevitably the costs will be high. Therefore, the design of the component takes
into account other existing capacity wherever possible, to keep costs down. Thus, in the financial
services activity, it is proposed to pass contracts with the two other institutions that have capacity: with
SFD (which is gaining expertise in building sustainable microfinance institutions) and SEDU (which has
a good track record in small enterprise finance lending). Similarly, the project will work with VTCs (in
Mukalla, Seiyun, Ja'ar, Zinjibar, Aden) to provide technical skills training. These VTCs are already
being  supported under IDA  and GTZ projects, and are developing good capacity.  Project
apprenticeships and short-term training workshops will be done in local communities and in group
situations thereby reducing costs. Off-the-shelf MSE development materials will be used whenever
possible.
Economic and Social Development of Rural Communities (Base cost US$6.8 million)
16.   This component would comprise a series of activities aimed at the social and economic
development of poor communities as a whole. During project implementation, about 40 broad
communities would be selected for support. Selection criteria would include: (i) high concentration of
dispossessed tenants and other poor people; (ii) willingness to participate in the project and work within
the participatory methodology; and (iii) (where possible) the presence of an existing community
SEDU was set up in 1990 under donor assistance as the small enterprise arm Industrial Bank of
Yemen. It is now becoming autonomous and is expanding into operations outside the country.



Annex I
Page 6 of 11
organization, e.g., a management committee for a domestic water supply scheme. With respect to the
project, communities are defined as individual large villages with populations over 2000 people or a
group of hamlets and smaller villages.  Communities so defined would have the following
characteristics: (i) a total population of 200 to 800 households; (ii) longest walking distance between the
hamlets included not to exceed one hour; (iii) social cohesion, i.e., there being no current or known
history of significant conflicts or disagreements between the hamlets; ard (iv) populated by people from
the same social stratum or strata, with known good relationships.
17.   Development of Community Management Skills and Institutions. The project would provide
training and minor logistical support to community organizations around specific projects of economic or
social importance to the local community. This could be backed up by the community fund described
below. Typical projects might include: development of village water supply and sanitation; maintenance
or rehabilitation of community infrastructure, whether productive (irrigation systems, terraces, etc.) or
social (schools, health clinics, etc.); and community environmental protection and awareness programs.
18.   A Community Development Fund. Of the 40 communities with which the project would work,
it is estimated that approximately 25 would not benefit from land development. These 25 communities
would have access to a grant fund (up to US $100,000 per community) to finance community projects on
a cost sharing basis. Through the participatory process, the needs of the communities would be
established and communities would make a request for financing from the project. Priority would be
given to investments directly supporting economic development (spate irrigation construction and
rehabilitation, community workshops, women's workshops/centers, marketing centers, etc.). Second
priority for project funding would go to environmentally relevant investments (domestic water and
drainage supply, flood protection structures, waste disposal, etc.) while third priority would be given to
direct social infrastructures (health centers or education facilities).
19.   Project field staff would negotiate directly with the community to reach agreement on a
subproject. Technical aspects would be prepared with support from project staff or consultants and the
proposal would finally be approved by project management according to rules set out in the Manual of
Procedures (usually from the engineering group). These rules would establish the criteria for acceptance
which would include the following:
-     that subprojects are of high value and benefit to the entire community;
-     that no subgroup within the community would benefit disproportionately from the
investment funded by the project;
-     that there is adequate commitment from the community demonstrated by comprehensive
sharing in the process and costs of the design and implementation of the project;
-     that the project would be sustainable under community management and that adequate
arrangements have been made to this effect; and
-     that the cost per beneficiary did not exceed the maximum agreed under the project.
Implementation would be by contracts made according to procurement rules that would give preference
to community associations and local contractors, whether for construction or for the provision of
services.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 11
20.   In view of the expected start-up of interventions of the Social Fund for Development (SFD)
(IDA Cr. 2953-YE) in the project area shortly after that of the proposed project, close coordination
would be established and maintained with that project's field staff as soon as they are appointed. During
appraisal, agreement was reached with SFD management on the cooperation mechanism for subprojects
which would be more suitable for SFD funding. The project would act as intermediary between
communities and the SFD for investments either in communities that are not eligible for the project's
own Fund, or for additional investments in other communities. In this case, project staff would assist the
communities in preparing a project to the standards required by the SFD and support the community up
to the point when the SFD accepted the project and integrated it into its own program. In addition,
agreement was reached during appraisal on cooperation on methodology, training and programming with
a GTZ-financed community development project that is working in other parts of the southern
governorates.
Future Projects Preparation (Base Cost US $ 1.0 million)
21.   The pipeline of projects in agriculture and rural development is very weak. Despite the
processing needs of the sector, particularly in rehabilitating rural services, no projects are ready.
Therefore, an allocation has been made under the present project, totaling $ 1.0 million, to finance
consultants, working groups and a pilot project.
Project Management Unit (Base Cost US$2.7 million)
22.   A Project Management Unit would be set up to implement the project (Chapter III). Investments
to be financed are: technical assistance and project staff, vehicles, office equipment, office rental, and
operating costs.



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary                Key Performance                   Monitoring & Supervision         Critical Assumptions &
Indicators                                                         Risks
Country Strategy Objectives   Stabilization, structural Teforms and   CAS does not include performance                                Govemment remains committed to
social protection                indicators                                                         stabilization and adjustment, and to
poverty alleviation
Portfolio implementation and
sustainability of investments
Sustainable natural and human
resource development
Project Development              Sustainably raise the income of   - 1,950 families receiving land  Project monitoring and evaluation    Govemment remains committed to
Objectives                       very poor rural people in four   achieve annual income of above                                      a decentralized rural poverty
southem govemorates (largely     $2,600 by end of project (up to   Mid-term review                  alleviation program as a major
those affected by changes in land  $4,000 by PYIO)                                                  development goal
tenure) to above the poverty level                                 Independent evaluations (2)
- 500 persons trained as "paravets"
400 of them attain annual income
of above $1,000 (by end of project)
- 280 families taking up fishing
acquire an annual income above
$3,000 (by end of project)
Reinforce community cohesion and   - 40 communities set up community   Project monitoring and evaluation
raise the welfare level in       institutions                     (PME)
communities in the southemr
govemorates that have a very high    - regular meetings of community  Supervision missions (SPN)                                            Oq
concentration of poor people     institutions
Mid-term review (MTR)                                                     oo >
._  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   o__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   P__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        CD



Test innovations regarding the   - 25 communities confirm selection   PME, SPN, MTR                Government-community-project
involvement of beneficiaries in  of beneficiaries                                                  agree to operate in three-way
planning and implementation                                                                        partnership
- 40 communities agree community
development plans                                                 Project staff are willing and able to
use participatory techniques
- 40 communities participate in
annual monitoring and evaluation
meetings
Test innovations regarding a     - project implemented on schedule    Decree creating the PMU with high   Government continues to support
business approach to project    and within budget                 level of autonomy (condition of  the operation of the PMU
management                                                        negotiations)                    (covenant)
- overhead: direct benefit ratio of
$1:$9 or better                  TORs and CVs of PMU staff        PMU staff are high calibre
acceptable to IDA (covenant)    (covenant)
PME, SPN
Project Outputs                 Creating sustainable new farming  - 1,950 new family farms operating   PME, SPN                     New farmers are trained and have
enterprises                      profitably by PY6                                                 incentives and means (including
access to credit) to produce to
Increasing animal production     - 400 "paravets" operating       PME, SPN                         Paravets can find drugs in the
through improved health          profitably and suatainably                                        market to restock
Creating off-farm jobs and       -2,100 new jobs and/or new       PME, SPN                         Market opportunities continue to
businesses                       businesses                                                        exist
-1,000 existing businesses
expanded
-microfinance system piloted                                                                             co
-business loans system piloted
Increasing fisheries production  - 280 new fishermen and 70 new   PME, SPN                         Fisheries stocks and market remain     0  (
fishing businesses working                                        buoyant
profitably
Well-structured community        - at least one self-sustaining   PME, SPN
institutions                     community institution in each of 40
communities



Project Components               A. Land allocation and
development
1. land allocation               - 22 new land sites (2,150 ha) and 3   Decree (condition of negotiations)    Govermnent title to land is sound
state farmns (750 ha) legally
allocated to the project before
negotiations
- plot allocation agreed by
Government and the community,
and titles issued, before land                                     Land Registry promptly records
development                      registered title                  clean title
2. land development and          - 3,900 ha of land developed      PME, SPN                         Technical studies on soil, water and
rehabilitation                                                                                      costs are sound
3. farmer services               - 3,900 ha of land brought into   PME, SPN                         Contract training and extension are
production                                                         effecive in raising farmers technical
level, in matching farm potential to
profitable markets and in helping
farmers to access credit.
Profitable technical packages
adapted to the farming system are
available
B. Off farm income development
1. livestock development         - 500 paravets trained and equipped   PME, SPN                     Tumkey training and development
contract can be let
2. services and microenterprise  - 3,000 apprenticeships and      PME, SPN                          Contracts for apprentices and with
vocational course (including 1,500                                 VTCs can be let and supervised
women)
- 1,300 business training packages                                 PMU, SFD and SEDU can develop
-3,000 microfinance clients                                       institutional mechanism
-200 small loans given                                                                                    on
3. fishing                       - 280 would-be fishermen trained  PME, SPN                         PMU can negotiate credit
and apprenticed                                                    arrangements from Fisheries IV             P
- 70 fishing boats and gear supplied                              system                                   o P
from the market under existing                                                                             _ X
credit arrangements



C. Community Development
1. community management and      - community dialogue and training    PME, SPN                      PMU staff can develop the needed
institutions                     in 40 communities                                                  dialogue skills
2. community development fund    - grants made for community       PME, SPN                         PMU can develop institutional
development projects in up to 25                                   mechanism
conmnunities
3. environmental protection and  - environmental awareness         PME, SPN                         Community responsiveness
awareness                        campaigns in schools in 25
communities
- 6 audiovisual and radio programs
made and transmitted locally
oro
D
0 m



YEMEN - SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1997        1998         1999         2000         2001        2002         2003         2004
ID  Task Name                                   Duration    Start    Finish  0401 0  2|03|Q401 |Q2|3041 Q203Q4Q1 Q21Q30Q4Q1 QQ20Q30Q4Q01 0Q20Q30Q40Q1 |Q20Q31040Q1 0Q20Q30Q4
I   PROJECT PROCESSING                           52.86w    11/1/96  11/25/97
2       Preappraisal                               2.86w    11/1/96  11/21/96
3       Appraisal & Negotiations                     2w    3/14/97   3/28/97
4       Post Appraisal                               2w    5/27/97   6/10/97
5       Additional Studies                          13w    1/13/97   4/17/97
6           State Farm Rehabilitatin                6.2w    1/13/97   2/27/97
7           Groundwater in Hadramaut                 4w    3/20/97   4/17/97
8   Effectiveness                                Ow   11/25/97  11/25/9
9   PROJECT STUDIES                                 30w    9/12/97   4i21/981
10      Preparation of Final Design                  30w    9/12/97   4/21/98
11      Preparation of Bidding Documents             14w     1/8/98   4/21/98
12  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                          337w     1/8/98  10/20/04   .        .    . E
13      LAND DEVELOPMENT                            337w     1/8/98  10/20/04   .        .                              5 , r .__..
14           Hadramout Governate                    291w     1/8/98  11/17/03    .       .          I
15              Land Development Component          163w    5/20/98   8/30/01    ._
16                   Hinen                           20w    5/20/98  10/14/98
17                       well drilling               15w    5/20/98    9/8/98                             .
18                      irrigation system            12w    7/17/98  10/14/98
19                   BarwaJ                          38w     8/3/98    5/7/99
20                       well drilling               35w     8/3/98   4/15/99
21                      irrigation syst              30w    9/30/98    5/7/99
Task                                    Summary                 *              Rolled Up Progress                          _                           (D
Project:                                                __  __  _  __  _
Date: 9/12197                        Progress                                Rolled Up Task                                              |                                                   N
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone
C:\DATA\SOG0V\YENS0G0V.MPP                                                              Page 1



YEMEN - SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1997        1998         1999         2000         2001        2002         2003         2004
ID  Task Name                                   Duration    Start    Finish  Q4IQ1 1Q21Q31Q4|/ Q2 Q3 Q4       21 Q21|Q3IQ4|I Q133 Q1 1Q2lQ31041Q1 102103104    1
22                   Ghayl Omar                      20w   12128198   6121/99
23                       well drilling               15w   12/28/98   4/15/99
24                      irrigation syst              12w    2/24/99   5/21/99
25                   Ukm Al Himar                    25w    3/10199    919199
26                       well drilling               22w    3/10/99   8/18/99
27                      irgation syst                15w    5/24/99    9/9/99
28                   Dhubala                        14w    5124/99    9/2/99
29                       well drilling               12w    5/24/99   8/18/99
30                      Irrigation syst               8w     7/6199    9/2/99
31                   Bii-Hafldh                      16w    7121199  11/1U199
32                       well drilling               lOw    7/21/99   10/11/99
33                      irrigation syst               8w    9/17/99  11/15/99
34                   Al Rudud                        12w     9/2199  11/30/99
35                       well drilling                8w     9/2/99   11/1/99
36                      irrigation syst               8w   1101199  11130/99
37                   Shaeuf                          18w    10/1199   2110/00   .
38                       well drilling               lOw    10/11/99  12/14/99
39                      irrigation syst               8w   12115/99   2110/00 ..
40                   Al-Sary                         14w   11/16199   2126/O0   I
41                       well drilling               12w   11/16/99   2/10/00
42                      irrigation syst              lOw   12/15/99   2/25/00   I        *.
Task                                    Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress
Project:__ _ _ _                                                    _ _ _
Date: 9/12/97                        Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone K
C:\DATA\SOGOV\YENSOGOV.MPP                                                              Page 2



YEMEN - SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1991        1998         1999        2000         2001        2002         2003        2004
ID  Task Name                                  Duration    Start    Finish  Q40Q1 Q2|Q3|Q41 Q2 0Q34011 Q203104 0  020Q30Q4 01QQ2 Q3|Q4 QiQ2 Q3lQ40Q1lQ20Q3 Q4 010Q20Q30Q4
43                  Ba'alal                         14w   1113100   4125100
44                      well drilling               12w    1/13/00   4110/00
45                      irrigation syst              8w  2V25/00   4/25100
46                  Al-Jarab                        20w    3/13/00    8/4/00
47                      well drilling               18w   3/13/00   7/21/00
48                       irrigation syst            14w   4/25/00    8/4/00
49                  Gaher                           lOw    5/24/00    8/4/00
50                      well drilling                6w   5/24/00    7/6/00
51                      irrigation syst              6w   6/22/00    8/4/00
52                  Ba Ateer                        lOw    6/22/00    9/4/00   I
63                      well drilling                6w   6/22/00    8/4100
54                      irrigation syst              6w   7/21/00    9/4/00
55                  Inat                            low     817/00  10/18/00   .
56                      well drilling                8w    8/7/00   10/3/00
57                      irrigation syst              6w     9/5/00  10/18/00
58                  Al Wasta                        low    9/19/00  11/30/00
59                      well drilling                6w   9/19/00   11/1/00
60                      irrigation syst              6w   10/18/00  11/30/00
61                  Boor (east)                     14w    1V1100   3114101   ..
62                       well drilling              lOw    12/1/00   2/13/01
63                      irrigation syst              8w    1/15/01   3/14/01
Task                                   Summary                   _            Rolled Up Progress
Project:                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Date: 9/12/97                        Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Roled Up Milestone  )
C:\DATA\SOGOV\YENSOGOV.MPP                                                            Page 3



YEMEN - SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implerientation Schedule
|   1997    |   1998    |   1999      2000         2001        2002         2003         2004
ID  Task Name                                   Duration    Start    Finish  Q4[IQ1|Q2IQ3|Q4I Q  0Q2 Q3101  02 0Q3 Q4 01 02 0Q3041 Q2 030Q41 Q2 Q3 04  1 Q2 0304  1 0Q2Q304
64                   Boor (west)                     25w    2/28/01   8/30/01
65                       well drilling               25w    2/28/01   8/30/01
66                      irrigation syst              15w    5/11/01   8/30/01
67               Community Development Comp         290w    118/98  11110/03   .         .  .        I       _ _
68                   Community Development          290w     1/8/98  11/10/03
Environment                   280w      3/9/98  10/24/03
70               Off-Farm Activities                287w     2/6/98  11/17103
71                   Animal Husbandry               285w     2/6/98   11/3/03                   I *   *    . *    _1_
72                   Fisheries                      285w    2/20/98  11/17/03   .        .               l _ 
73                   Traditional Building           130w    3/16/98  10/25/00                   .  *    l *    _ 
74          Shabwah Governate                       285w     2/6/98   11/3/03    .       .             * _  _  _
75               Land Development Component          90w     7/3/98   4/25/00
76                   Naqb Al Hajr                    23w     7/3198  12/18/98
77                       wells drilling              20w     7/3/98  11/26/98
78                      irrigation syst              15w     9/1/98  12/18/98
79                   Al Malbooja                     23w     7/3/98  12/18/98
80                       wells drilling              20w     7/3/98  11/26/98
81                      irrigation syst              15W     9/1/98  12/18/98
82                   State Farms Rehabilitation      90w     7/3/98   4/25/00            .                      _
83                       Al Swairy                   30w     7/3/98    2/9/99   .        .
0 (D
84                       Al Rudud                    20w   11/30/99   4/25/00
Task                                   Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress
Project:                                                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Date: 9/12/97                        Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Milestone          *                   Rolled Up Milestone
C:\DATA\SOGOV\YENSOGOV.MPP                                                              Page 4



YEMEN - SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
_   1997         1998    1   1999          2000          2001         2002         2003         2004
ID   Task Name                                    Duration    Start    Finish  04 Q4 10Q20Q30Q41 Q02Q30401 020Q30Q4  03  2 lQ3 0Q4Q01  2 Q3  Q4 Q  02030            1 Q2|030401 020304
85                        Meifa'a Hajr                 50w    9/15/98   9/16/99
86               Community Development Comp          285w      216198   11/3/03                 g**m 
87                   Community Development           285w      2/6/98   11/3/03                    I *    _    *
88                   Environment                     275w    3/23/98   10/3/03    .         .   . : .                                                       ii
89               Off-Farm Activities                 285w      2/6/98   11/3103
90                   Animal Husbandry                285w      2/6/98    11/3/03
91                   Fisheries                       275w    3/23/98    10/3/03
92                   Traditional Building             130w     7/3/98   2/13/01
93           Abyan Govemate                          335w    1/22/98  10/20/04    .                 __
94               Land Development Component          155w    4/23/99     6/5/02
95                   Khabt Asloom                      75w    4/23199  10/26/00
96                        well drilling                70w    4/23/99   9/19/00
97                       irrigation syst               60w    8/11/99  10/25/00
98                   Al Naqa'                          80w    4/25/00   12;4/01
99                        well drilling                80w    4/25/00    12/4/01
100                       irrigation syst              65w    8114/00    12/4/01
101                   Khabt Al Asloom                  45w    7/10/01     615/02
102                       well drilling                40w    7/10/01   4/30/02
103                       irrigation system            35w    9/21/01    6/5/02
104               Community Development Comp          285w    1/22198  10/17/03
105                   Community Development           285w    1/22/98  10/17/03                                                                                                                  OrX
Task                                     Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress                                                          a
Project:
Date: 9/12/97                         Progress                                  Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone
C:\DATA\SOGOv\YENSOGOV.MPP                                                                 Page 5



YEMEN - SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1997         1998         1999         2000         2001         2002    |   2003           2004
ID  Task Name                                     Duration    Start    Finish       1        043 01 Q   3     21 IQ2 0Q3104 01 Q2 0304 Qi 0203041Q IQ2lQ3lQ41Q IQ2103IQ41  IQ203lQ4
106                   Environment                     275w    3116198   9/25/03
107               Off-Farm Activities                 330w    2/27/98  10/20/04    .             .____    _
108                   Animal Husbandry                285w    1/26/99  10/20/04
109                   Fisheries                       275w    2/27/98   9/11/03
110                   Traditional Building            130w      7/3/98   2/13/01             .  .    .
111          Lahaj Governate                          287w      1/8/98  10/17/03
112               Land Development & Irrigation        24w    1/22/98   7/17/98
113                   Water Resources Studies          24w    1/22198   7/17/98
114                   Implementation?                   Ow    7/17/98   7/17/98                            7/17
115               Community Development Comp          285w    1/22/98  10/17/03    .
1i16                  Community Development           285w    1/22/98  10/17/03I
117                   Environment                     275w    3/1 6/98   9/25/03    .
118               Off-Farm Activities                 285w      1/8/98   10/3/03    .        .          .
119                   Animal Husbandry                285w      1/8/98   10/3/03    .        .
120                   Fisheries                       275w    3/23/98    10/3/03    .
121                   Traditional Building            130w      7/3/98   2/13/01
(D
0  Ml
ON t4,
f                         | ~~~~~~~~~Task                              Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress 
Date: 9/12/97                         Progress                                  Rolled Up Task
Milestone           *Rolled Up Milestone 
C:\DATA\SOGO\V\YENSOGOV.MPP                                                                Page 6



Annex 3
Page 1 of 20
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTUERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Abstract: The project objective is poverty alleviation for a specific target group in the
poor southern governorates of Yemen. Components are land development, off farm
income development and community development The land development component
and two of the off-farm income generating activities have been subjected to cost
benefit analysis. EIRRs are in the range 9-17 percent for new land development; and
in the range 22-28 percent for rehabilitation. The livestock income generating activity
EIRR is 20 percent, andfor fisheries the ERR is over 175 percent Cost effectiveness
evaluation has been carried out for other components.
A. Policy Environment
1.    The economic situation in Yemen has been difficult for almost a decade, following the
successive shocks of the Gulf War, Unification and the 1994 Civil War. This has had its impact
on incomes and social condition, and has led to a weakening of Government services. However,
Government embarked on a program of stabilization and adjustment from 1995, and has adopted
a growth and poverty alleviation strategy based on a reduced role for the public sector, the
development of the private sector, and direct interventions to reduce poverty.  Thus,
government's program currently focuses on: (i) stabilization to restore macroeconomic balance
and reduce inflation; (ii) structural reform and adjustment to stimulate economic growth; and
(iii) poverty alleviation and social protection measures. The structural reforms are being
supported by the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC, Credit No. 2840-YEM) approved in April
1996. Poverty alleviation is to be achieved through different initiatives, including a rapid
income transfer through the Public Works Project (Credit No. 2878-YE), by the Social Fund
Project (Credit No. 2953-YE), and by the proposed project.
2.    Performance to date has been good. The stabilization program is on track, and the
adjustment program is being supported by IDA adjustment lending (Economic Recovery Credit,
Credit No. 2840-YEM). Public sector reform is to be supported by an Administrative Reform
Credit (FY99). Yemen's proposed decentralization law, which has been approved by the Cabinet
and is now in Parliament, will further facilitate implementation of the types of activities
supported by the proposed project. A financial sector adjustment program has begun and this is
to be supported under the recently appraised Financial Sector Adjustment Credit.
B. Links to ESW
3.    The latest formal sector work in agriculture was the Agricultural Sector Study
(September 1993, Report 11126-YEM). This report, although somewhat dated by the rapid
decline of the effectiveness of public services, nonetheless sets the strategic context for the
proposed project: it emphasizes the need for attention to poor rural areas, with bottom up



Annex a
Page 2 of 20
planning focused on farmers needs and measures to ensure community participation in project
preparation and execution. It underlines the need for prudent attention to water resources
exploitation and management, and recommends interventions that give priority to poverty
alleviation and to improving the lot of women. The proposed project has been designed within
this framework.
4.    More recent sector work has been done in water sector with the Water Strategy (August
1997, Report No. 15718-YEM). This report promotes a broad agenda of water conservation,
with emphasis on the need for good information and a regional planning context for all new
water resources development, and on the need for water users to be mobilized in self-
management and self-regulation. The proposed project has been agreed with the new National
Water Resources Authority as falling within the planning framework; the project provides
support to water resources monitoring; and the development of water user associations is integral
to project implementation and management.
5.    Recent sector work on poverty is contained in the Poverty Assessment (June 1996,
Report No. 15158-YEM). The Assessment recommends an approach that targets the poor
directly, with particular emphasis on the non-governmental sector and local community groups.
IDA is supporting a nationwide program on these lines through the Public Works Project (Credit
No. 2878-YE) and the Social Fund Project (Credit No. 2953-YE). The proposed project is set in
the context of this special emphasis on action in the rural sector through a community approach
and through investment in sustainable increases in incomes.
6.    The recent Public Expenditure Review highlights the need to prioritize public
investment spending on high return activities, and to minimize the recurrent cost burden on
Government from projects. The proposed project's focus on a particular, highly impoverished
target group has been based on this prioritization imperative, and the project has been designed
so that at completion there will be a zero recurrent cost burden on Government, as the project
unit will be dissolved, and the beneficiaries and users will have taken full control of assets and
their management.
C.    Links to CAS
7.    The project is fully consistent with the latest country assistance strategy (CAS, January
1996, Report No. 15286-YEM). The CAS has three main objectives:
(a)    Stabilization, Structural Reforms and Social Protection.  The principal
thrusts are to support the stabilization and structural adjustment program by
policy dialogue and adjustment lending and to attack poverty in a practical way
through targeted interventions and support to economic growth. The proposed
project is designed to provide support to the poorest segment of the community
in a well-defined geographical area where targeting is possible and where there
are good prospects for a sustainable solution to poverty through economic
development. It is thus a prime means of implementing this CAS objective (see
CAS para. 46).
(b)    Portfolio  Implementation  and  Sustainability  of Investments. Poor
implementation performance and a mixed record on sustainability of
investments underlie this important objective. The principal tools proposed are



Annex 3
Page 3 of 20
selectivity of new investments (confined to situations where there are good
prospects of efficient implementation) and an emphasis on cost-effective and
innovative approaches to project management. The proposed project has been
designed in the light of the mixed record of rural development projects in
implementation and sustainability; the project should contribute to the CAS
objective of improving implementation and sustainability by incorporating a
radical change in project management approach and by integrating beneficiary
and community involvement and capacity building as the main foundation of
sustainability (see CAS para. 47).
(c)    Sustainable Natural Resource Development. The proposed project is founded
on detailed work on the nature and extent of the natural resource base.
Sustainable water management (see CAS para. 51) is built into the project
through: (i) the establishment of water user associations; (ii) the buildup of
monitoring capability; (iii) site selection; and (iv) sufficient technical assistance.
This project was incorporated into the CAS after discussion by the Board in February 1996. The
project is shown as a complement to the structural adjustment program and will provide an
alternative mechanism to the Government for helping the poor to re-enter the economy.
D. Role of the Private Sector and Rationale for Public Sector Intervention
8.    Role of the Private Sector. Government has primary responsibility for financing and
implementing the project. However, the role of the private sector will be key, as implementation
will be through a program of public-private partnerships using community groups and private
contractors. The project will work through private contractors to deliver most activities, which
will be defined, executed and monitored by beneficiaries and community groups. Beneficiary
cost sharing is a significant feature of the project (US$5.4 million, 11 percent of project cost).
9.    Rationale for Public Sector Involvement. In general, public intervention is justified
because the project: (i) target benefits to poor communities unlikely to be reached by the private
sector; and (ii) provides an impetus for new approaches to poverty reduction which could be
generalized once sufficient experience and familiarity with them has been gained.
10.   Each component was examined to determine the maximum possible scope for private
participation or implementation. The results are presented in Table 1 below. The role of the
private sector has been maximized, and for most components there is cost sharing and
beneficiary participation in management and implementation. Some functions have been
necessarily allocated to Government for the reasons indicated in the table. The principal criteria
which have been applied to determine the roles of public and private sectors are:
(a)   redistribution - the market will not redistribute assets to the poor, and
Government has necessarily to assume the task in the interests of equity. As the
project's principal objective is poverty alleviation, this is the dominant reason
for public intervention and applies to all components.
(b)   incomplete information - the market will not invest in assets or activities where
there is inadequate information about likely outcomes. For example, the land



Annex 3
Page 4 of 20
development component is based on detailed information available only to
Government on the water resources and their future allocation and management.
(c)    reserved function - some activities are essentially Government's task. In the
project, the allocation of public land and registration of title can only be
performed by a Government agency (although implementation can - and will be
- be delegated to the private sector).
(d)    exclusion difficult - in the case of public infrastructure such as roads that may
be constructed under the community development component, it would be
difficult to prevent a third party, non-member of the community from using the
asset .
Table 1: Rationale for Public Sector Involvement
Conponent              Rationale              Implementadion         Beneficiary
Land Allocation        Reserved function      Government and private    Poor private farmers
surveyors
Land Development       Incomplete information,    Private contractors and  Poor private farmers
redistribution         suppliers
Crop development       Redistribution         Beneficiaries          Poor private farmers
Off-farm Income        Incomplete information,    Government, NGOs,  Rural poor
Development           redistribution          contractors, beneficiaries
Community Development  Redistribution, exclusion    Government, NGOs,  Poor rural communities
difficult              contractors, beneficiaries
E. The Project Management Approach
11.    Throughout the preparation period, there was a pronounced and pervasive skepticism
evident about the capability of a project to affect the problem of rural poverty. Rural people -
and government officials - tended to see a project as a series of inputs with Government agencies
as the beneficiary rather than a coherent set of deliverables designed to impact on the real
problem. This perception, which is largely based on past experience, led to the proposals for
project implementation, which provide for a temporary, light and efficient structure focused
entirely on the impact on the target group. Project management arrangements will follow private
sector practice and accountability, adopting a "business approach". Under this approach, the
Government has created by Decree of December 1996 the Project Management Unit (PMU) as a
temporary autonomous legal entity with powers and a structure equivalent to those of a private
business. The reason for this business approach is to ensure that the project starts up rapidly and
is implemented at lowest possible cost with the maximum direct benefits being delivered in a
timely and efficient manner to the beneficiaries - the rural poor.
12.    The PMU will exist to achieve specific targets over the project period, and would be
dissolved at the end of the project. Low management overhead would be a key performance
indicator, not exceeding 10 percent of project cost (compared to rates of 20 percent and upward
experienced in projects in the sector that have been implemented through ministries). A key



Annex 3
Page 5 of 20
parameter retained is that "overhead" (the cost of project management) should be at most $1 for
every $9 value of output delivered to the beneficiary. Beneficiary involvement in monitoring
this and other parameters will provide one of the checks on the effectiveness of the "business
approach".
13.   The cost-effectiveness of the proposed approach was tested against the alternative of
delivering the services through govemment ministries.  The Government units primarily
responsible for development projects were examined and the average cost of overhead per dollar
of investment in these ministries was estimated and compared to the forecast average for the
project. This cost-effectiveness comparison shows that the proposed project is more efficient
and would result in an overhead cost savings of about 60 percent compared to the estimated cost
of conducting these activities in the Ministries. This comparison excludes the question of
whether Government ministries are capable of implementing this type of community and
beneficiary based project.
F. Cost Benefit Analysis
14.   Cost-Benefit Analysis Methodology. For those components where a cost benefit
technique is used to calculate the economic internal rate of return (i.e., Land Development,
Livestock and Fisheries), the financial and economic rates of return for each project component
have been calculated by the following methodology.  First, a financial flows model is
constructed for the with project scenario. Next the without project scenario is modeled. The
difference between the with and without project is calculated, and the financial net present value
and internal rate of return estimated on the net benefit flow. The model is then adjusted for
specific conversion factors and the economic net present value and internal rate of return
determined.  This methodology is followed for each region in the Land Development
Component, resulting in six separate estimates of the economic returns. The period of the
analysis is 20 years for the Land Development component. For the Livestock and Fisheries
components, the period of analysis is only ten years. This period was chosen because the
components return very robust economic rates of return and a longer analysis period was not
considered to be warranted.
15.   Opportunity Cost of Capital. Based on IDA norms for projects in Yemen, the analysis
has been carried out using a 10 percent discount rate. Use of the 10 percent discount rate will
also be required for future revenue-earning services and micro-enterprises identified under the
off-farm income development component.
16.   Macroeconomic Risk. The following are the main specific macroeconomic assumptions
that would condition success (see project design summary in Annex 1): continued macroeconomic
stabilisation; and continued Government support for a decentralised rural poverty alleviation
program as a major development goal. Indications are that these assumptions are realistic and do
not present a high risk. The macroeconomic stabilization program is on track and Government is
negotiating a new facility with the IME and a new adjustment operation with IDA. Nonetheless,
the macroeconomic context is vital. The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of just one
macroeconomic parameter going off track (Scenario # I models the impact of a divergence between
official and market exchange rates). Although this risk presently appears unlikely to materialise,
the results of the sensitivity analysis underscore the need for careful monitoring and for sustained
dialogue at the macroeconomic level in order to provide an enabling environment for the project to
succeed.



Annex 3
Page 6 of 20
17.   Regarding Govemment support for decentralized rural poverty operations, Government
has worked actively with NGOs and donors on poverty alleviation and has made a commitment
to major operations for poverty alleviation. There is a strong historic tradition of decentralized
self-management and community involvement in the development process, and this is reinforced
not only by Government's present policy and practice but also by a strong self-help movement
from communities themselves. Donors at the recent Consultative Group meeting showed strong
support for this approach, and are backing it up with several externally-financed initiatives in the
way of decentralized and community led development. The risk that this approach will not be
sustained are therefore small.
18.   Institutional Risk. Experience with IDA projects in the rural sector has been mixed, with
problems of both implementation and sustainability. The implementation strategy for the proposed
project goes a long way to reduce this risk - relying upon a demand-driven, field-oriented way of
working; a "business approach" to management with properly paid and qualified staff;
decentralization in implementation; transparency and accountability; and autonomy from over-
bureaucratic procedures. However, the implementation design involves innovative experiments
and would require political commitment and good management to make it work. Government has
endorsed the proposed approach and has acted decisively to create the steering committee and the
PMU, and to appoint the project director. At the local level, the governors for the project areas are
committed to quick results on the ground. The early appointment of the project director will help to
get early results, so that the project could generate its own momentum of support.
Land Development Component
19.   Description. The land development component comprises a series of activities designed
to establish about 1,950 very poor landless families within the target communities in sustainable
new farming operations on about 3,900 ha. About 3,150 ha would be newly developed and about
750 ha would be rehabilitation work on former state farms. Sub-components would be: (i) land
allocation - assignment of secure title for lands to be developed or rehabilitated under the project
to poor rural families, largely dispossessed; (ii) land development and rehabilitation - about
3,900 hectares of irrigated land would be developed or rehabilitated, and water monitoring set up
or reinforced; and (iii) farmer services - training and extension (delivered by professionals on a
contract basis), help to access credit for equipment and inputs, and material support to farm
establishment. The project sites are located in three separate governorates. The farm units of 2
ha would generate incomes of between $2,600 and $4,000 per farm family, varying according to
the crop mix (2 ha has been set as the size that can be managed by a family and that provides a
good income). Complete details are available in the Project File.
20.   Up-Front Screening. The project land sites were selected during identification and
preparation from a large number of sites proposed by Government. Selection criteria were
technical (soils, water quality, quantity and sustainability, production capability), social (target
population in the area, community willing), legal (no claims on the land, Government held
secure title), and economic (lower per hectare development cost, likely ERR above 10 percent).
After this screening, sites were studied in detail and the technical, social, legal and economic
analyses were finalized at preparation and reviewed at appraisal.
21.   Benefits. For the Base Case scenario, benefit streams are based on detailed farm
budgets that conservatively estimate yields and prices for the area (e.g. onions 15-18 t/ha,
tomatoes 10-15 t/ha, sesame 0.6-1.2 tlha). Cropping intensities are between 95-111 percent,



Annex 3
Page 7 of 20
which are below best practice in the area. Full crop development is assumed five years after the
start of farning on each site. The predominant crops in the analysis are wheat, durah, dates,
onions tomatoes and other vegetables.
22.   Costs. Project costs come from the detailed crop budgets and IDA's estimates of capital
expenditures and technical assistance. The Land Development component costs include land
allocation, development or rehabilitation (well drilling and equipment, water conveyance
systems, land leveling, field layout), and the costs of crop development for the start-up period
(training, extension, support to farm establishment, including leaching, deep ploughing, in field
canal construction, tree planting, soil amendment). Recurrent include pump replacement after
every seven years of service and ongoing O&M for the entire period. Water has been priced
using the pumping cost as a proxy, as there is no resource charge and there is no alternative use
of the water that would allow an opportunity cost to be calculated. Depletion costs and recharge
benefits are not included in the analysis as it is envisaged that the project will not result in
mining of the aquifer (and provisions for water monitoring and management are included in the
project to ensure this outcome).
23.   Without Project Scenario. The without project scenario assumes that the project's
beneficiaries are living at, or near, the poverty line. Base Case assumptions are a per capita
annual expenditure of YR 5723, a figure based on Annex II.A of the green cover Poverty
Assessment (Report No. 151 58-YEM) for the Hadramawt governorate, increased by 2.53 percent
for the rate of inflation since the report's publication. The without project scenario assumes an
average family size of 6.5 persons, and that the working members of the household are employed
in various, but unknown, activities resulting in an average poverty line income on a per capita
basis.
24.   Conversion Factors. Conversion factors were calculated and used for the foreign
exchange premium on all tradable inputs, diesel or gasoline (as appropriate) used in pumps or
vehicles, farmgate wheat prices, urea, phosphate and land. Imported IDA project capital inputs
are not subject to customs duties or local taxes, therefore no adjustment was made for these
taxes. See the Project File for details.
25.   Economic Return. The base case analysis, using the assumptions described above,
shows economic rates of return to the land development component of between 9 percent and 17
percent for new land development; and between 22 percent and 28 percent for rehabilitation.
The lowest rate of return (9 percent) applies to the two new development schemes in Abyan
Governorate. This rate of return reflects the relatively difficult soil and water conditions in the
Governorate. The two sites have been retained in the project because of the extreme problem of
poverty in the area and the lack of alternative economic activities that could be developed.
Nonetheless, the development at one site (Khabt Al-Asloom) will be phased in order to assess
the water resources situation, and a decision will be taken on whether to develop the whole of the
scheme at the time of the Mid-Term Review.



Annex 3
Page 8 of 20
Table 2: Land Development Component - Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Economic    Financial
Net Present Value @10%
(US$ millions)
1. New Land Developnent
Hadramawt                  0.2          0.3
Shabwa                     0.3          0.3
Abyan                      0.0          0.2
2. Rehabilitation
Al-Rudud State Farm        0.2          0.2
El-Suwari State Farm       0.2          0.3
Meifa-Hajr State Farm      0.3          0.4
Rate of Return (percent)
1. New Land Development
Hadramnawt                13.5         15.6
Shabwa                    16.6         24.7
Abyan                     10.0         15.0
2. Rehabilitation
Al-Rudud State Farm       28.2         58.1
El-Suwari State Farm      23.5         45.8
Meifa-Hajr State Farm     21.2         39.9
26.    Risks-Project Complexity. One of the lessons from IDA lending experience has been
that project design should be as simple as possible. The sensitivity analysis shows the possible
impact of project complexity leading to delays and cost increases (Scenario # 2 in the Sensitivity
Analysis), and project design therefore focused on maintaining as simple a design as is consistent
with achieving project objectives and on ensuring workable management arrangements. During
preappraisal and appraisal, components of the proposed project were reduced (the fisheries
component) or eliminated (the proposed traditional building component) and the resulting project
has, in fact, a simple structure and a manageable implementation strategy. The key features are:
community dialogue and involvement as the unifying mechanism for project activities; the business
approach to project management; and implementation through contractors under supervision rather
than by a heavy in-house capacity. Although the project is spread geographically across five
separated regions, this is nonetheless a viable project area as the project intervenes in a finite
number of communities (40) and staff are mandated to be highly mobile and to use all means of
communication (including the recently reintroduced cellular telephones, together with fax, radio
etc.). The project is thus manageable, provided the PMU is endowed with the powers and attributes
intended. This underlines the importance attached in project design to the characteristics of the
PMU and the need for close follow up during start up and supervision.
27.    Risks-Water Resources.  Water scarcity is a major constraint in Yemen, and the
economic consequences on the project if water were to be insufficient or if pumping costs were to
increase are very striking (see Scenarios # 3 and 4 in the Sensitivity Analysis). Therefore, close
attention was paid to the issue throughout the preparation and appraisal process. Availability of
sustainable water has been a prime factor in determining the sites which have been adopted for land



Annex 3
Page 9 of 20
development. During identification and preparation, site investigations were carried out and the
large number of existing studies of water resources and data collected by public agencies were
analyzed, including the nationwide Water Resources Assessment of Yemen (General Departrnent
of Hydrogeology, with Netherlands Government aid), the survey of Wadi Hadramawt resources
(Murdoch McDonald, IDA-financed) and numerous local and regional surveys. As a result, Lahej
governorate was excluded from land development activities and only limited areas were selected in
Abyan and Shabwa. Further work was done at appraisal, when the mission included a
hydrogeologist. Subsequent work published on Hadramawt from a Canadian consultant study
(KOMEX) confirms the adequacy of sustainable water in that area. Based on these existing studies,
new field work and expert opinion, sites have only been included where extraction of water is
sustainable. Proposed development of water resources under the project has been discussed with
the National Water Resources Authority (NWRA), which is responsible for approving water
resource uses. In addition, support is being provided under this and other projects for water
monitoring and management. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government
(through NWRA) would: (i) prepare a plan to control groundwater development in the project areas
and limit abstraction of each aquifer to those recommended by the available hydrological studies
and submit it to IDA by December 31, 1998 and (ii) submit to IDA by January 31 of each year a
annual report on groundwater monitoring and assessment for each of the project areas. Other
measures are discussed below in the section on environment.
28.   Risks-Land Tenure. In the fluid conditions that prevailed in the southem govemorates
after unification and the civil war of 1994, there were many land claims. Notwithstanding the
multiple precautions taken during project preparation to deal with claims, and to drop sites where
title was seriously contested, under the Constitution of Yemen, citizens are always entitled to
lodge claims, however speculative. The sensitivity analysis carried out on the project rate of
return shows that if problems over land tenure were to reduce the number of farms in service
(Scenarios #5 in the Sensitivity Analysis), project viability would be at risk. However, this risk
has been minimized by the actions of Government in clearing claims and asserting and assigning
freehold title, and also by the community validation procedure followed to select beneficiaries.
This process has gone as far as possible to reduce the risk that further claims are made on the
lands once allocated, as there is both a formal declaration and assignment of a clean title
underwritten by govermment and a community commitment to the agreed distribution. Two
further steps have been built in to ensure that no claims could be made on land once developed.
First, the sites would be demarcated, further announcements made in the newspapers, and any
resulting claims would be adjudicated before the tender for development is launched. Second,
Govemment would grant freehold title on plots to beneficiaries before land is developed.
29.   Risks-Farm Productivity. As beneficiaries receiving land are poor, they may be risk
averse and also have problems of access to investment and working capital. In addition, there is
a risk that markets may not be steady or able to absorb output, particularly high value produce.
These risks could threaten the economic justification of the project (as shown by Scenario # 6 in
the Sensitivity Analysis). These risks would be avoided by the emphasis placed on support to
farmers in the early years of farming to provide training, access to inputs and credit. The high
grade contract extension services would help farmers to prepare professional business plans
matching produce to markets, and would ease farner access to bank financing. This risk also
reinforced the case for farmers to share in the costs, in order to ensure that they have the
incentive to earn the maximum possible return from their farming. Finally, the allocation of land
to beneficiaries on a freehold basis would both increase farmer incentives and ease access to
credit.



Annex 3
Page IO of 20
30.    Sensitivity Analysis. The sensitivities modeled correspond to the risks discussed above.
The analysis has been carried out only on the land development component as: (i) this is the
largest component subject to cost benefit analysis; (ii) the risks impact predominantly on this
component; and (iii) some of the Base Case EIRRs for this component are close to or at the cut
off point. The risks modeled are:
Table 3: Sensitivity Analysis - Land Development Component
Scenario                    Description of Risk Modeled                     EIRR range
-        Base case                                                      9-28%
#1        Divergence of 5% p.a. between official and market exchange rates  negative - 17%
(macroeconomic risk)
#2        Civil works costs increase by 30% (project complexity)        4 - 24%
# 3       Crop benefits decrease by 25% (water resources risk)           negative - 18%
# 4       Pumping costs increase by 50% (water resources risk)           2 -21%
# 5       Feddans grown decreased by 20% (land tenure risk)              5 - 23%
# 6       Cropping intensity reaches 1.0 only after five years (farm     9-28%
productivity risk)
The results of the sensitivity analysis show that for all but one of the risks modeled, some of the
land development component EIRRs would drop below 10 percent. This underlines the
importance of: (i) the mitigating and risk-avoiding measures that have been built into the project
and which are discussed above; and (ii) the need for close monitoring of all parameters
throughout implementation (see Section K below for details).
31.    Switching values were also calculated for the two areas showing the lowest predicted
economic returns (Hadramawt and Abyan). The results, illustrated in Table 4 below, amplify the
discussion of the previous paragraph and those of the ICRs of previous IDA experience
examined for this project-achieving the predicted crop intensities and benefit streams will be a
key ingredient to achieving the project's development objectives. Thus, these two parameters
will be closely monitored during supervision (see full discussion at Section K).
Table 4: Switching Values for Two Areas
in the Land Development Component
Parameter Adjusted                           Hadramawt         Abyan
Year I crop intensity would have to decrease by  54             <1
what percentage?
Per capita income in the Without Project Scenario
would have to increase by what percentage?     >4,000           <1
Crop benefits would have to decrease by what     6              <1
percentage?                                              I _
32.    Transfer Payments. For each of the Land Development sub-components, a distribution
of the net present value of the economic benefits and costs was made between the beneficiaries



Annex 3
Page 1 1 of 20
(farmers) and the government. The results are shown in Table 10 at the end of this annex. As
illustrated, the overall economic benefit of this component is just over YR 1.0 billion. The
amount accruing to the farmers exceeds this amount by some YR 737 million, reflecting the net
balance of input subsidies and below-market wheat farm gate prices. From this analysis, we
confirm that the intended beneficiaries well targeted.
Off-Farm Income Development Component
33.   The component would comprise three sets of activities to provide assistance to poor
people to set up or develop very small or small businesses or to acquire the technical skills
training needed to find remunerative employment. The interest of the target group to take up
these opportunities has been established through the participatory preparation process. The
component would comprise three sets of activities: (i) livestock development - training and
equipment in animal health and care to about 500 poor villagers, at least half of them women, to
enable them to set up as simple animal health providers ("paraveterinarians") - this activity has
been successfully piloted by a GTZ-financed project in the southern governorates; (ii) fishing
development - training and equipment of about 280 new entrants to the profitable fisheries
business on the south coast; and (iii) promotion of other revenue-earning services and micro-
enterprise. This activity would provide assistance to: (i) establish start-up micro and small
enterprises' (MSEs); (ii) assist already existing MSEs; and (iii) provide technical skills training
in areas where employment opportunities exist.
34.   Livestock. For the livestock activity the benefits are expected to be substantial in
relation to the costs; appraisal estimates are that training of a paravet should create the ability to
generate an additional income of US$500-1,000/annum. However, to present a conservative
case, the benefit stream for this component is based on estimated income per paravet of only
US$750, and it has been assumed that only 50 percent of those trained will carry on this
profession. The without project model is the same as the Land Development component, i.e., that
beneficiaries are assumed to be currently employed in activities that result in a household
poverty line income on a per capita basis. The economic net present value for livestock is YR 36
million, and economic internal rate of return is expected to be 20 percent. A switching value
analysis was performed on the estimated income and number of people that carry on in the
profession. As shown in Table 5 below, the estimated annual income would have to fall below
US$ 585, or the number of people remaining in the profession would have to decrease by another
50, before the NPV reached zero.
A common definition of MSEs includes a wide range of enterprises (services, transport, agriculture,
manufacturing) ranging from part time, seasonal activities of a single person to small, formal
enterprises employing several non-family members.



Annex 3
Page 12 of 20
Table 5: Switching Values for Livestock sub-Component
Parameter Adjusted
The decrease in estimated annual income would have to  22
be what percent?
the decrease in the number of people remaining in the  50
profession would have to be what?
35.    No analysis of transfer payments was performed because the financial and economic net
present values were equal, implying all benefits accrue to the beneficiaries.
36.    Fisheries.  For the fisheries activity costs include training, school days per diem.
apprenticeship fees, boats, motors, gear and operations and maintenance costs. The Base Case
scenario assumes that 280 fishermen trained will take up the profession and that all are full-time
fishermen by year three of the analysis. It also assumes that each boat (comprised of four
fishermen) will be able to catch 26 tons of fish/boat and that YR30,000 is the average per ton
price for their catch. These numbers are based on experience under the current IDA-financed
Fisheries IV Project and are considered by IDA fishery experts to be conservative assumptions.
The without project model is the same as that described above for the Land Development
Component and Livestock sub-component. For fisheries, the Base Case economic net present
value is YR161 million and the economic internal rate of return is expected to be about 180
percent.
37.    Table 6 illustrates that economic rates of return for this sub-component are quite robust.
Of the four sensitivity analyses perforned, the EIRR was never found to be below 40 percent.
Switching value analysis shows that an about 85 percent reduction in either the price per ton or
tons caught per year would be needed to bring the economic net present value to zero.
Table 6: Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values for Fisheries Sub-Component
Scenario                  Description ofRisk Modeled                 Econonmc NPV       ERR
(YR Millions)      (%9)
-      Base Case                                                      161.0          179.8
#1     Price per ton of fish decreases from YR 30,000 to YR 10,000     35.0           43.5
#2     Tons caught annually per boat decreases from 28 to 14 tons      66.6           73.9
#3      It takes 6 years (instead of 2) to get all students into full-time fishing  39.1  56.5
#4      Only 140 (vs. 280) students remain in fishing                   66.7           78.2
Switching
Analysis                                                                 Percen
a      Price per ton of fish would have to decrease by what?            85
b      Tons landed annually would have to decrease by what?             85
38.    No analysis of transfer payments was performed because the financial net present value
was with two percent of the economic net present value, thereby demonstrating that almost all of
the benefits wili go to the target population.



Annex 3
Page 13 of 20
39.    Promotion of other revenue earning services and microenterprise activity. This sub-
component could not be yet analyzed using the cost-benefit methodology because the specific
activities financed have yet to be identified. However, the project will require the following
parameters be observed. First, a least-cost approach has been followed in setting up project
implementation arrangements for this component. In order to avoid duplication of expensive
staff capacity building, the project will leverage its resources with those of the Social Fund for
Development (SFD, providing microfinance expertise in building sustainable microfinance
institutions) and the Small Enterprise Development Unit (SEDU, providing expertise in small
enterprise finance lending) in order to build local institutional capacity. Similarly, the project
will work with Vocational Training Centers (VTCs) to provide technical skills training to project
clients and to obtain additional leverage through the investments of IDA and GTZ in building the
capacity of these institutions. Project apprenticeships and short-term training workshops will be
done in local communities and in group situations thereby reducing costs.
40.    Second, support to small enterprise development will be subject to financial analysis and
to criteria for maximum loan size and entrepreneur contribution. Maximum loan size per
permanent small enterprise job created, as well as expected entrepreneur contributions and
maximum default by type of entrepreneurial activity are given in Table 7.
Table 7: Small Enterprise Subprojects
Maximum Loan
Size  per  Job  Contribution of Maximum Loan
Created        Entrepreneur    Default Rate
US$            %               %
Commerce and Trade                              2,000           25%             10%
Agro-related Processing                         3,000           30%             10%
Workshops (Electrical/Mechanical/Other)         4,000           25%             15%
Services                                        2,000           20%             10%
Textile/Apparel                                 2,000           20%             10%
41.    Third, the microfinance pilot would use financial sustainability criteria, with a baseline
expectation of financial viability for the apex organization within three years of inception. It will
also require a simplified financial analysis (without the use of conversion factors or a without
project element) be used to screen projects, with a threshold discount rate of 10 percent required.
Community Development
42.    The project will support a variety of subprojects, ranging from community development
to institutional development to small enterprise development. The approach to economic
analysis differs from subproject to subproject. It is difficult to calculate an ERR for the overall
project, given the difficulty of quantifying benefits of some of the activities supported. As far as
possible, the project approach has been aligned with that of the Social Fund (SFD) in order to
ensure compatible interventions. The approach for community development subprojects will use
an ERR approach with cut-off of 10 percent for economically productive projects. For
infrastructure projects, the project will employ a maximum unit cost per beneficiary criterion.
Subprojects with costs exceeding this maximum unit cost will not be financed. Table 8 shows



Annex 3
Page 14 of 20
the maximum unit cost per beneficiary for various types of community development activity. It
also shows the expected labor content for civil works and the expected level of community
contribution. These expectations will be reviewed annually to incorporate experience gained in
field operations.
Table 8: Economic and Financial Criteria for Community Development Subprojects
Expected
Maximum Cost Minimum Labor Community
per Beneficiary   Content     Contribution
USS            %               %
Rural water supply                              25             N/A         10%-20%
Street Paving                                    10            50%           5%0-0%
Markets                                          25            30%          100/o-20%
Health (investmnent cost per beneficiary)        25            30%           50/o 10%
Education (investment cost per student)         300            30%           5%-10%
Education (long-term recurrent cost per student/year)  40      N/A          250/o-75%
Solid waste management                          25             40%          100/& 20%
G.    Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
43.    Fiscal Impact. Over the six year implementation period, Government will have to
provide about US$ 3.4 million in counterpart funds, an average of US$600,000 per year. This
level is about 2 percent of the total capital budget for the agriculture sector, and a fraction of 1
percent of the total investment budget of the nation. It will not pose any overall fiscal problem.
There will be no recurrent cost funding required from the government under the project, and at
the end of the project the project unit will be dissolved.
44.    Cost Recovery. Beneficiaries would contribute about US$4.1 million (about 11 percent
of project costs) to cover half the cost of irrigated farn establishment, pumps and engines for
irrigation. The quantum to be recovered has been set at the level that is affordable by the
averagely performing farmer on the lowest yielding project land site (the worst case scenario).
During the work of the Committee for the Selection of Beneficiaries, the cost recovery provision
proved a practical means of identifying able and suitable candidates, as only those with the
necessary management skills were prepared to accept land on these terms. Capital repayments
will be made over fifteen years with three years grace from start of the farming operation. The
funds will be paid to community associations for use in community development activities.
45.    Repayment obligations were designed not to exceed 15 percent, on average, of farm
household incomes. This amount was considered by the project team, local advisers and farmers
to be affordable and sustainable over the fifteen-year repayment period. The project's
Procedures Manual also provides guidelines if a farm family has trouble making its payments,
including the provision for counseling and the setting up of extended payment plans and/or
limited duration grace periods after year three.



Annex 3
Page 15 of 20
H.    Design Alternatives Considered
46.   The project design was the result of an extended period of consultation with all
stakeholders, beginning with the initial Participatory Needs Assessment and continuing
throughout the preparation and appraisal period. During this process a number of alternative
design elements were considered, and not retained. The principal amongst them are:
(a)   relocation of the dispossessed - because of the constrained resource situation in
the areas in which project beneficiaries live, the possibility of relocation was
considered early in the project design phase. However, this was not retained,
first and foremost because there is a very high cost attached to resettlement,
requiring complete infrastructure in addition to investment in economic
activities before the population can be brought back to their original income
level. Best practice shows that under almost all circumstances in situ poverty
alleviation is lower cost.  If resettlement had been adopted, the project
beneficiaries would have been far fewer within the available financial resources.
Second, throughout the preparation process, and especially during the
Participatory Needs Assessment, Government and beneficiaries alike clearly
expressed a preference for locally-based poverty alleviating investments rather
than out-migration. Government pointed out that economic opportunities in
towns were hardly better than in the villages of origin, and most of Yemen's
towns are suffering from rapid and uncontrolled expansion and from growing
physical constraints, notably in water supply and sanitation. Finally, in the
difficult social situation prevailing in the southern governorates before and after
the civil war, the movement of large numbers of people to new areas would have
exacerbated social tensions.
(b)    no land development - because of the comparatively high cost of land
development, the possibility of a project without land was considered. This was
rejected by Government and IDA because: (i) the target population were farmers
and knew best how to farm; (ii) the process of consulting beneficiaries threw up an
overwhelming preference for land; (iii) despite high cost, land development
offered the most assured and stable return of any component (and it had an
acceptable rate of return); and (iv) iand development was seen by both
Government and communities as an "anchor" that held together the other project
interventions.
(c)    development of private lands and their transfer to beneficiaries - because many
of the returning owners were not interested in farming, the preparation and
appraisal missions examined the possibility that the project might invest in
rehabilitation of private lands and their transfer to beneficiaries. However, this
proved impracticable as it would have involved either Government purchasing the
land from the owners - which was against public policy - or a long term mortgage-
style arrangement whereby beneficiaries would have committed themselves to
capital repayments to owners over an extended period before they received clear
title. As the term of this arrangement would have gone well beyond the life of the
IDA Credit, IDA and Government considered that the guarantees that the
landowners would honour their side of the bargain were inadequate.



Annex 3
Page 16 of 20
(d)    inplementation of the off-farm  and community developnent components
through another agency - at the time of appraisal, the new Social Fund for
Development was being set up, and the mission reviewed the feasibility that
implementation of these two components could be transferred to the Social Fund
which had similar objectives and activities. However, the management of the
Social Fund decided against this option as it was itself an embryonic institution
and was unwilling to take on extensive field commitments. Instead, it was agreed
that the two projects would cooperate in fields of mutual interest, and that the
Social Fund would implement one pilot activity for the Southern Governorates
Project (microfmance pilot) as this was a field in which the Social Fund had
competence and experience.
(e)   inclusion of a "traditional building skills component" - there is a long history of
development of the "built environment" in the project area and parts of this
environment represent a precious cultural heritage. It was proposed, therefore, to
include a traditional building skills component in the project, as this was felt to be
a possible area of economic development. However, there was a high risk that
there would not be an adequate market response as the component was designed.
In particular, it was not clear what the constraints to "market" development of the
subsector were. This led to a low and insecure rate of return in the first round of
economic analysis. It was therefore decided to drop the component as a free-
standing activity. Instead, subsector analysis will be carried out under the off-farm
income development component. The bottlenecks will thus be identified to what
should, in principle, be a thriving economic sector in several parts of the project
area.
1. Beneficiary Assessment and Poverty Impact
47.    The objective of the project is to relieve rural poverty, with a particular focus on the
pockets of extreme poverty comprising those families dispossessed as a result of the 1990
changes in land tenure. The focus of project preparation right from the start was, therefore, on
identifying the target population, on defining their characteristics and needs, and on including
them as full partners in project design and implementation. This process began with the
Participatory Needs Assessment (PNA) conducted by IDA in 1994 as part of project
identification. The PNA found that income losses for the dispossessed averaged 41 percent. The
dispossessed tenants were (and are) living below the poverty line; the PNA found that the
majority of the dispossessed (86 percent) are living in absolute poverty (less than US$65, Rls
8,775 per person per year); and the balance are below the general poverty line (US$85, Rls
1 1,475 per person per year).
48.    The existence of this well-defined poverty target group makes it relatively easy to select
project beneficiaries and to know that they are poor. Records exist for all project areas as to who
are the dispossessed, and these are easy to validate through community dialogue. It is expected
that about 75 percent of project beneficiaries will come from this group. The balance will be
selected on the basis of community dialogue.
49.   In order to ensure that the project meets its objectives of poverty alleviation, a financial
analysis was carried out to evaluate the ability of the land allocation of 5 feddans to sustain the
livelihood of farm families and to bring them sustainably above the poverty lines. Cash income



Annex 3
Page 17 of 20
from a typical 5 feddan farm will ensure that the target group is lifted out of poverty - farm
incomes per person are of the order of US$ 400, well above the poverty line of US$ 85.
Similarly, the expected cash incomes from the livestock component (US$250 per person) and
from the fisheries component (up to US$ 450 per person) are well above the poverty line
Table 9: - Sample Forecast Farm Incomes under the Project
l___ _  USD        YR
Hadramawt         2,689         362,990
Meifa             3,687         497,761
Abyan             2,501         337,657
Average          2,806         399,469
Per person         401          57,067
J.     Environmental Aspects
50.   The project carries a number of moderate environmental risks, especially with respect to
water management, sustainable land use, and sustainable farming practices.
Water Management
51.   The availability of groundwater is a major constraint in Yemen and groundwater
availability has been a major factor in designing the land development component. In addition to
the safeguards discussed above, project development would be phased at one site (Khabt al
Asloom), in order to assess the water situation before completing the scheme. No groundwater
development would take place in coastal Hadramawt or in Lahej where water resources are
limited and mainly fulfilling urban demand. In addition, in order to assess water use and flow,
and to encourage farmers in sustainable water use, the project would require and finance water
meters on the wells drilled under the project.
52.   The drilling of deeper wells brings a risk of contamination of lower aquifers through
leakage from surface water or the higher aquifer. The risk would be mitigated through careful
site selection and through requiring the sealing off the upper aquifers by concrete/grout casing
through the upper aquifers and stainless steel casing. Well design would be approved by IDA,
and execution of well drilling, casing and welding would be carried out by licensed drilling
companies and carefully supervised by project staff, govemment (including local water
monitoring units) and international consultants.
Sustainable Land Use
53.   The major environmental risks of farming at the southern govemorates are salination of
farm land and wind erosion. In many areas, the salt levels in well water are moderate to critical
and do not allow leaching. Sites where serious risks of salination cannot be mitigated, have
therefore been excluded from the project. In general, the risk would be managed through training
of farmers in irrigation management and in leaching practices. Wind erosion would be reduced
through careful monitoring of new constructions in irrigated fields and through planting wind-
breaks.



Annex3
Page 18 of 20
Sustainable Farming Practices
54.   High productivity farming in the arid conditions of the southern governorates requires
careful on-farm husbandry, particularly soil and water management. The risk of sub-optimal
farming practices would be mitigated by training, both through extension and on-site training for
farmer groups. The project would not finance pesticides and would encourage the use of
integrated pest management techniques. Efforts to enhance animal health and care would
increase efficiency of production and decrease non-productive use of grazing and water
resources.
Biodiversity
55.   The project would have a minimal effect on biodiversity. The emphasis on traditional
practices in field school- and paravet training, as well as on bee-keeping as an off-farm activity,
would increase appreciation for plant and animal biodiversity, and would enhance the respect for
traditional knowledge systems.
56.   The fisheries component would not affect the threatened coastal lobster population.
Increased coastal fishing, by providing and equipping a limited number of boats, is not expected
to have a measurable impact on the small (sardine, mackerel) and large pelagic (tuna, sharks,
etc.) fish population.
Archeological Sites
57.   The project is not expected to provide a risk to archeological sites. One proposed
irrigation site was in fact eliminated as it threatened an archaeological site, and others were
dropped to avoid affecting the water table in the cities in the region. Water use near or upstream
of these sites would be monitored through the water meters installed on newly drilled wells. It is
expected that there may be some positive impact on the Naqb al Hajr historic site, by better land
management adjacent to the site.
K. Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation
Monitoring of Risks
58.   Risks have been thoroughly analyzed and minimizing, avoiding and mitigating measures
have been deployed. Monitoring of all critical assumptions and risks would be continuous
throughout the project period (through project monitoring and evaluation, supervision missions,
mid-term review, independent evaluation). In the event that these or other risks nonetheless
threaten implementation, and the government would not implement agreed upon solutions, then
remedies would be employed, going from restructuring to cancellation.
Monitoring of Implementation and Impact
59.   Monitoring of project implementation and impact would be continuous throughout the
project. The basis would be the key performance indicators developed in the design summary
(Annex 1), which were agreed at negotiations. The detailed monitoring framework would be
designed and supervised by the monitoring and evaluation specialist. The finance manager and
the M&E specialist would be jointly responsible for the Management Information System (MIS).



Annex 3
Page 19 of 20
Monitoring by the beneficiary target groups of project execution and impact would be built in
from the start, involving at least one formal meeting a year in each community.
60.   In order to track the impact of the project on incomes and welfare at the household level,
a limited number of families would be monitored regularly throughout the project by the M&E
system set up by the project's M&E Specialist.
Supervision
61.   A project launch workshop would be held shortly before the expected date of
effectiveness.  This would provide "just in time" training in procurement, disbursement,
accounting, auditing and management procedures. Thereafter, regular IDA supervision would
take place every six months, according to a supervision plan that was worked out at appraisal
(see Annex 10). Supervision would be led from the Yemen Resident Mission, with support from
headquarters. This will allow close and frequent follow-up, particularly in the initial stages of
the project. Supervision resources required are estimated at 25 weeks in FY98, and thereafter 18
weeks annually, with a special provision of additional resources in FY 2001 to conduct the
proposed mid-term review. At least once a year, supervision missions would contain a financial
analyst to verify procedures and give some hands-on training. At least once a year supervision
missions would contain an economist to follow up on the macroeconomic parameters and to
measure to what extent project implementation and costs and benefits were in line with forecasts.
Mid-Term Review
62.   In view of its novel implementation methodology and to allow for redesign and
adjustment of project inputs and components, a mid-term review should take place late in the
third year of the project (target date - November 2000). It would involve a social scientist
specialized in participatory approaches, an economist, specialists in irrigation, finance, project
management, off-farm/SME, and others according to need. The mid-term evaluation would
examine the status of project execution and impact, and follow up on the overall framework and
risk environment. It would also canvas the opinions of a representative sample of beneficiaries.
As necessary, it would propose restructuring or reallocation of funds and propose changes for the
continuation of the project.
Impact Evaluation
63.   Impact evaluation by an independent monitoring team would be conducted towards the
end of the project implementation period. It would be appropriate to repeat the exercise about
eight or nine years after project start up, i.e., two or three years after completion. The basic
reference would be the development objectives and the related performance indicators listed in
the design summary. Ways in which the second impact evaluation would be conducted and
financed (the evaluation would be well after the IDA Credit had closed) would be examined
during implementation and decided at the time of the first evaluation.
Completion Report
64.   Not later than six months after the completion of the project, the Government would
submit to IDA a Project Completion Report summarizing the achievements of the project and its
impact vis-a-vis objectives.



Annex 3
Page 20 of 20
Table 10: Distribution of Costs and Benefits
Land Development Component
(YR Millions)
Hadramawt                    Farmers       Gov't.      Society     Al-rudud                     Farmers       Gov't.      Society
Benefits                          3.285          14        3.299  Benefits                             680           4          684
Costs                                                          _  Costs
Cropping                          1,768          89        1.856  Cropping                             390          23          413
Capital Investment                    0        1,033       1,033  Capital Investment                     0          72           72
Land Allocation                       0           7            7  Land Allocation                        0           1            1
Crop Development                      0          97           97 _ Crop Development                      0          10           10
Irrigation Development                0          49           49 _ Irrigation Development                0          10           10
PMU                                   0          45           45  PMU                                    0           9            9
Transfers from Gov't.             1,189       -1.189           0  Transfers from Gov't.                 63          -63           0
Total Costs                       2,957         130        3,087 _ Total Costs                         453          62          515
Net Benefit                         329         -117         212  Net Benefit                          227         -59          169
Shabwa                       Farmers       Gov't.      Society     Suwari                       Farmers       Gov't.      Society
Benefits                          2,111           0        2,111  Benefits                             916           5          921
Costs                                                              Costs
Cropping                            998          53        1.051  Cropping                             526          31          556
Capital Investment                    0         730          730  Capital Investment                     0         151          151
Land Allocation                       0           5            5  Land Allocation                        0           2            2
Crop Development                      0          28           28  Crop Development                       0          14           14
Irrigation Development                0           15          15  Irrigation Development                 0           10          10
PMU                                   0          42           42 _ PMU                                   0           9            9
Transfers from Gov't.               719         -719           0  Transfers from Gov't.                132         -132           0
Total Costs                       1,717          155       1,872 _ Total Costs                         658          84          742
Net Benefit                         394         -155         239  Net Benefit                          258          -79         179
Abyan                        Farmers       Gov't.      society     Maifa                         Farmers      Gov't.      Society
Benefits                          2,751           0        2,751 _ Benefits                          1,400           8        1,408
Costs                                                              Costs
Cropping                          1.748          83        1,831 _ Cropping                            805          46          851
Capital Investment                    0         847          847 _ Capital Investment                    0         229          229
Land Allocation                       0            5           5 -Land Allocation                        0           3            3
Crop Development                      0           0            0  Crop Development                       0          23           23
Irrigation Development                0          29           29  Irrigation Development                 0          22           22
PMU                                   0          39           39 _ PMU                                   0          20           20
Transfers from Gov't.               802         -802           0  Transfers from Gov't.                208         -208           0
Total Costs                       2,550         202        2,752 _ Total Costs                        1,013         134       1,147
Net Benefit                         201         -202          -1  Net Benefit                          387         -126         261
l_______________________ _  _ _  __ I Land Development Total  1,7961       -737!      1,059



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
CentriacI Processing              Melhed of   P#epar0Mg of   Apprai!hle. |  4idlatg                       Did t    IDFAAD         aid      Dovery 
Procuremient      BD       0D by !DWFAD  Issue oHBD   Opapining of BD  Evaluilion   Approl    Award   Impleoent
_ . . ~- .__- 
onsrlMtanty ervfces & Engjnecrlng
1-Sereclin of Engineedng CneufttinIs            Cons.         Jul-97        Aug47        Sep4l1        Oct147        Oec-U       Jan-e       Ja-0      2198-10198
Recitmwtl of CTA and SWRE                                    Jul 97        Jul 97      Aug 97         Sep 97        Oct 97      Oct 0     9Odi7    119 aon
NTA hrEsbblshemrteVUUAs                      .                                                                  .                   _ 
octureenet of CivD WOwSl
gd t I Wed HadmtA  l  Inllng cirtuction          10           Ji 90         Jl8         Ag8 g          Oct o        N8 go98     Dec 98      Dec96      lfgan
t~ w b g  an   lss fn~        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ I _ _ _ _ __       _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _  _                _ _ _ _
fw;kVw arid.lest(q)s
QWid2 WV  Hadlakut (Well Dili. cosbuptin   -      IC         Jun99          Jul 99      Aug90          Od J         No 99       Dec 99      Dec 99      1100Oen
eanhM and losUii
e.~ig    ,dtsUn                      _ __        ._    _      _    _ _     _      __      _    _    _    __                     _    _     _  _ _
O3kla Wd Hmdnk    birllraabliW n or              NCR          Sep 96        bd 98        NoSvR9         Dec9         Jan 99      Feb90       Feb 99     4J99cn
SlaWe Fams)                                                    ._                                                 -  ._         _
Bld-4 Vadi Hadranut (Conudsuconiof lnalallon     NCO          Oct 98        Nov98 8o5 98               Feb 99        War 99      Apr 90      May90      7199 on
Sysenia and pump houies)                                  I                                                           .                      _
Rkld 6fllhd Halranmutm(Calsucion ellauon         NC0          OctB9         Novt99       DeG99         FebOO         Mar 90      AprOO       May 0      710 aen
Ssem  rid pump kiuses)                                                                                   . .
ld-B Shabwa(Wdl Dtii1wa crnstmuction. deunbp     ICR          Jun 9O        Jul 96       Aug9O         Oct 96        Nov 98      Dec 98      Dec 9g     1199 on
nd teslin__
Hbt-7 Stah (Cemcinaln ot kilgation               NCB          Oct98        .NM98         Dec 9S        Febg9o        Mar99       AprS9       May 99     79 on
Systems and pump hbses) 
Old-f Abyan (We ndrllig, consirucHan chang       ICS          Jun 99        Jdl99        Aug 99        Oct9          Nov 99      Dec 99      Dec 99      iC0o on
and    testin g)                             .__ _    _                  .__ _                   _   _ _ _  _   _  _   _  _                  _  _  _    _ _  _
Ikd9 Abn (Cons1mdten of lnigation               NCO          Oct 99        NWl 99       Dec 99        Feb 9         maro9       Apr 90      IayO0      7M00 on
_  _   _ ,,_                                                  _ __                                 _ __       _ .  _
SySlms and pump Iwxms)
Pounenert of -Gdods 
id- I Pumpeas (pSmlpsIoIs)                      ICB          Nw98          Dec98        Jan9 goMar 99               Apr99       May99       Jun 99      oP9 on
Bld-2 Etchial Eequlp,mt                           ICB         Nov 9go       Dec98        Jan S9        lMr 99         Ap 99      May Ps      Jun 99      0199 on
Bidt3  S    rams                              . ICB         N1ov96         Dec 9        Jan99         MA99 g        Ap(9        May 90      Jun99      BJ99en 9
Pocureeidnt of Veileks A EquIpment                                                                     .            .     .__
Did-1 -Vehk" b Ioftnnyes                         lC           Nowv97        Dec 7        Ju 98         mar 96        Me  98      Ap      r 989          e  oan



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
3id-2 Ofiii Equlpmenwii poplers. lade, -c.)     ICB          Nov 97       Oec 97        Jan 98        LFr 96       Mar98       Apr 98      Apt. 98     198 on
11*3 Con pfers a Pofntes (...                  aiC8          Nv 97         Dec 97       Jm 9B         LIar 98       Mug08      Apr 98      Apr go98 on
It PmcuWmnl of Comunsffancy Sen*ces #ad Engnwi  Magernenul wMJje acW*nd tb the  Bak Gatnes thr Cansdwns of January 1997
0)



Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION AT THLE COMMUNITY LEVEL
1.    This is a participatory project: the design has been drawn up in a partnership between
communities, target group individuals, the consultant/Government preparation team, and IDA.
Participation and partnership are also the keynotes of implementation, where they would lead
through dialogue to the identification and implementation of a program of activities that are
priorities for the community in its development, and for the alleviation of the poverty of the
poorest members of the community. This program is designed to be the essential unifying
mechanism that would make the project's several components and geographical areas into an
implementable program.
2.    In each of the 40 communities with which the project would work, communities and
individual target group members would have to make choices about which components can and
should be implemented in their community. Project interventions would be based on a
participatory approach throughout the project area.
3.    Participation has been a fundamental theme of this project since the earliest days of
design, including the PNA, the preparation and appraisal missions and the work of the
Committee for the Selection of Beneficiaries (Chapter II). Different forms of participatory rural
appraisals have been implemented during preparation and similar though more detailed methods
would be used during implementation.
4.    During implementation, willingness to cooperate with the project on a participatory basis
will be an essential criterion in selection of communities. With respect to land development,
those communities covered by the work of the Committee for the Selection of Beneficiaries
have already agreed to a participatory methodology. Any community which meets other criteria
but is unwilling to join in the participatory process would not be included in project activities.
5.    The participatory process would be initiated through the selection of communities.
During the first year of the project, field staff would first identify the communities which have
high concentrations of poor dispossessed farmers and other poor people by studying the lists of
dispossessed and by consulting communities. Communities filling the outline criteria would be
approached and separate meetings with men and women held in the following sequence:
-  a first meeting would be arranged to include groups of up to 50 people (in larger
communities or in separate hamlets, it would be necessary to hold this meeting more
than once). During this meeting, project staff would introduce the project, its
methodology and criteria for inclusion, and its proposed activities, and answer any
questions which might arise;
-  a second meeting would be held at least one week later to discuss issues brought up
by the members of the community and to discuss whether; the community meets
project criteria and would like to participate in the project;



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
where necessary, further meetings would be held to create a committee in the
community (or to agree on the use of an existing committee) to be the prime
interface of project staff (either a community committee or, where land is being
allocated - a water user association WUA). In the case of a community committee,
the project would intervene as necessary to ensure that this committee is
representative of all social groups and strata living in or using the area;
- through the meetings and through discussions with subgroups of villagers and
committee members, a program of project related activities would be established
(agricultural extension, environmental awareness interventions, paraveterinarians,
proposals of candidates for off-farm income training, training activities for women,
etc.). The use of the community development fund (where available) would be
discussed in a series of meetings until it was firmly established that a particular
investment was the most effective form of investment support to the community, that
it met project economic, financial and sustainability criteria, that adequate
participation and cost-sharing were forthcoming, and that it would benefit people
equitably. The program would be established on an annual basis to ensure a
coherent plan in each community, but it would be flexible and subject to
modifications by negotiations between the project and the community; and
- throughout the project period, regular formal and informal meetings would be held
between project field staff and community members to jointly supervise, monitor
and manage project interventions. Community members would keep records of the
work of contractors, be they builders or extension agents and they would therefore
be the first line of monitoring of project investments. Training will be provided for
this purpose.
6.    On the project side, the dialogue would be led by participatory development coordinators
(PDCs), under the supervision of the chief technical advisor and with other back-up and
technical support as needed. In the first six months of the project, training of PMU staff and
further testing of the methodology would be carried out. By the end of the first year of the
project, it is expected that about five community programs would have been agreed.
7.    A GTZ-financed project "Innovation Development in the Agriculture Sector" (IDAS)
has been testing participatory methodology in two of the governorates concerned (Lahej, Abyan)
and it has been agreed that the two projects will cooperate in methodology, training and
programming.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
1.      The total project costs are estimated at US$45.8 million including taxes and duties.
Base costs are US$40.4 million and contingencies are US$5.4 million (13 percent of base
costs). The foreign exchange component is US$28.5 million or 62 percent of total project costs.
Project costs are estimated at March 1997 prices. The breakdown of costs by component is
shown in Table 2. Detailed cost tables are presented in Working Paper No. 20. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 8 percent of base costs and price contingencies were calculated
on the following domestic and international inflation rates.
Table 1: Annual Estimated Inflation Rate (%)
Year                     International            Domestic                Exchange
Inflation rate          Inflation                Rate (YRIUS$)
1997                     3.00                     5.5                      135.02
1998                     2.80                     4.1                      141.56
1999                     3.05                     3.7                      145.72
2000                     3.05                     3.1                       149.73
2001-2                   3.14                     3.1                       149.73
Figures Based on MN2CO, estimates - January 7, 1997.
Table 2: Project Cost Summary
(in US$ million)
/e      %Total
Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign      Total   Exchange   Cost
(Rials '000) -------  ---------- US$ '000)-
Land Allocation and Development
Land Allocation                     26,447     2,962   29,440       196         22      218       10         1
Land Development                   939,346  1,642,735 2,582,081    6,957    12,167   19,124       64        47
Crop Development                   390,125   353,167  743,291    2,889       2,616    5,505       48        14
Subtotal                            1,355,947  1,998,864 3,354,812    10,043    14,804   24,847     60        61
Off-Farm Income Development
Livestock                           56,310    58,333   114,643      417        432      849       51         2
Fisheries                           29,542     13,796   43,338      220        219      102       32         1
Other Revenue Earning Enterprises  276,812   242,434  519,246    2,050       1,796    3,846       47        10
Subtotal                             362,664   314,563  677,227    2,686       2,330    5,016       46        12
Community Development                244,646   677,625  922,271      1,812     5,019    6,831      73         17
Subtotal                             244,646   677,625  922,271      1,812     5,019    6,831       73        17
Future Projects Preparation                -   132,117  132,117         -       979       979      100         2
PMU                                  143,439   227,234  370,673      1,063     1,683    2,745       61         7
Total Baseline Costs               2,106,696  3,350,404 5,457,100   15,603    24,814   40,417       61       100
Physical Contingencies             174,087   278,052  452,139      1,289     2,059    3,349       61         8
Price Contingencies                286,118   579,419  865,537       430      1,629    2,058       79         5
Total Project Costs                2,566,901  4,207,875 6,774,775   17,322    28,503   45,824       62       113



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
B. Proposed Financing Plan
2.      The Bank would finance about 54 percent of project costs. These would comprise
irrigation improvement, about 50 percent of the crop development activities, funds for sector
study and future project preparation activities and the Project Management Unit (PMU); IFAD
would finance the off-farm activities including the fisheries, livestock, vocational training, start-
up capital and community development funds, which total US$ 11.3 million or 25 percent of the
total project costs; the beneficiaries will contribute 50 percent of the crop development costs
and a portion of the irrigation development component, which amounts to about 11 percent of
the project costs; and the government will finance the balance of US$4.4 million, or about 10
percent of the project costs.
C. Disbursement Schedule
The project is expected to be completed in 5 years. The estimated disbursement
schedule is given below:
Table 3: Estimated Disbursement Schedule by Financiers
IFAD                            IDA
Semester       Semestral  Cumulative  %     Semestral      Cumulative %
1                              0 0     0                0       OTO
2             523.75       523.75   5     1739.42         1739.42   7
3             523.75      1047.50  9      1739.42         3478.84  14
4             1377.76     2425.26  22     2867.27         6346.11  26
5            1377.76      3803.02 25      2867.27         9213.38  37
6            1214.38      5017.40  44     4426.75        13640.13  55
7            1214.38      6231.78  55     4426.75         18066.88  73
8            1243.30     7475.08  66      2242.40        20309.28  82
9            1243.30      8718.38  77     2242.40        22551.68  91
10             862.12     9580.50  85      738.57         23290.25  94
11             862.12    10442.62  93      738.57         24028.82  97
12             416.78    10859.40 96       338.58         24367.40 99
13             416.78    11276.18 100      338.58         24705.98 100
Total                              100                              100



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF STAFF AND EQUIPMENT
-.__________________________________   _______  =______  ._______  =______  =_           Annex  ___nne
Sunimry of lai  l Eq,uinent
PoOt                  Nunt*er Duramn   Sbta    VeNhices Computer Uhbib   B6           Total    Cod    Staff    Total
___e (PY;                   Phones            DSA    Salod   Years   Cad    _
______~                              .        _              Your    ___  ________
_aioa  .IOoSIOI                        ____                            __                           ____            ._____I
Projecl Oireotr                                I       6         I         I       I       IHO            000   24000        6  144000        ._
PsorlcpsRory Deebpmno Calr                     6      5.5 _      I         /        5       SF            1500   12000    27.5  330
WeResmorces Engineer                           2      4.5         2        2        2       2 F            410   12000        9  108000
uleE Oflier.                       1= 6-            _  I          l      0.5  *_D Ha                      N100   1440         6  66000 
Finance                       hb MmhVnib In _.t    gw  1 H65             01170
Au,aena,ut             _                       1       :         2         1            I  00              50I  1440          5   7200  _____
SunlorWID OlIlew                               1      5.5         1                         I Ha           500   144a       5.5  79,200 
sit  MA                           _1                  bS          1        1                0 HO           50   14400       55   .7920D
Bu*Nss Devl. Advisors                          1      55         1         4        4       4              75    12000       22  2640DI
Itntlloenl Pmofesaom                               ___ .__.
CTAJSodooltd                                  1        4         1         1               . I HQ          4p0   1 0          4  40000i
SenorWaterResoces Engw                         11            1        1         1    I      I         HQ   300100O410         3  300000
gulprt-Sla  w_.                                                                                          
Jdvens                                       1;       5:__   1             3        0 ___ IVa lous        1500     3000      06  198000
Accounant                                      I                         0 1  .3    .1      0 H            120    6000        6   36000
Prcummmnt Off..er                              1       41         1      0.         0       1              200   6W0          4   24000
Lhrsn tOfer                                    I                   1      1        D         Varnus       750   12000o       5   6000 _
Cleilu(Secreaules                             l2         I        1      0.3       Al         HQ             0     30o       12   3600
Ha. Heedquuiab       F. FeW    __                                         _                   Sumiaoy          _
ltbbile cdrubrphoes madeled as pures - Olfios Phems                                           T .  Tl lil-eJ NPatI Ploffiawial sial         .        7
Notebudk empulemsiiums 'IndIkucalhodiuIitp      I__        __        __                 _     rTahl Mi-Ume Natkml Supp4lt staff                   17_  t
Pks mii to wh*li  maon  Ihai ta  pmoe sso% al kmll havea drWer.                               Teobl numbers 2l.pck-ups         1 I3
The accasatonul 3ev' brcor krsultb vAII be dden by .r*ct uv ___                                1 _   .ral number Notebook Conmutere. m_           1 7
ahertff viw n dii Iher, ewn-car and *w addlmnal drhn                                          Toal oil Phees r                  _        i
ilbe adsmMgsufl asI mqWied an ong pJwneys                                                   Tobl OflcerPhonea        |     _           2+1 fax Ike
.~~~~~~~~~LUb  .MC  AMto



Annlex 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTIERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LAND DEVELOPMENT AND IRRIGATION COMPONENT
Proposed Sites for Development
NO.         sm                   XUDI M-A (DISTRICT)                AREA (feddans)
WADI BADRAMAUT                                                __ __
1     Hinen                    A1-Qatn                                          235
2     Barwai                   Al-Qatn                                          495
3     Boor (West) 1            Seim                                             225
4     Boor (East)              Sciyun                                           110
6     Sharuf                   Tarim                                             60
7     Rudud                    Tarim                                             25
8     Al-Sarv                  Tarim                                             70
9     Ba'aal                   Ta-m                                             140
10    At-larab                  TarIM                                            240
11    Oilaer                    Tanm                                              40
12    Al-Wasta                  Tarim                                             70
13    Ba-Ateer                  Tarim                                             60
14    Inat                      Tarit .                                           80
15    Bil-Hafidh                Tarim                                             90
16    Dhubai'a                  SahL                                              90
17    Ukm-A- Iimu               Sali                                            .150.
18    Ohayl Omar.               Sah                                              135
Sub-Total Wadi                                                        2,305
Hadraut                                                     .
___ __ SECABW A                  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _     _  _  _  _  _  _
19         Yj                   Mdfa                                             500
20    Al Malbooa               IMeifi'a                                          Soo
Sub-Tdtal Shabwa
ABYAN
21    Khabt Al Asloom           Ja'r                                            1.000
22     Al Nana'                 AhNvar                                         .1.000
Sub-Total Abyan                                                        2,000
._____   TOTAL                                                                    5305
Proposed Rehabilitation of State Farnms
DRAMAWT 
SF I      AI Swairy                   Tanm                                -          595
SFP2      Al Rudud                     Tarim                                         325
SF 3      Mcifa'a Hajr                Meifa'a                                        960
TOTAL                                                                  1,880



Annex 9
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NUMBER OF BENEFICIARIES
Direct Beneficiaries
Land Component (9,689 feddans in 5 feddan plots)              1.950
Off-Farm Income Development
Paraveterinarians                                        500
Fisheries                                                280
Technical Training
Men                                  1,500
Women                                            3,000
Business Training                                       1,300
Microfinancial Services                                3,000
SME Credit                                               200
Subsector Beneficiaries                                  500
Subtotal                                         8380
Subtotal after adjusting for one
beneficiary receiving two types
of support, say                                6.800
TOTAL AFTER ADJUSTMENT                           8_750 Beneficiaries
Community Development Beneficiaries
In the 25 communities not receiving land                  15,000 families
In the 15 communities receiving land                      8,000 families
TOTAL                                        23.000 families



Annex 10
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Supervision Mission     Composition                 Date         Staff Week
1. Launch Workshop and  Task Manager, Sociologist,    November   14
Initial Supervision  Procurement Specialist,      1997
Disbursement Specialist, and
Irrigation Engineer
2. First Regular        Task Manager, Sociologist,    May 1998    9
Supervision Mission    Irrigation Engineer, WUA
Specialist, Economist,
Community Development
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, and Financial
Analyst
3. Second Regular       Task Manager, Sociologist,    November   9
Supervision Mission    Economist, Irrigation      1998
Engineer, WUA Specialist, and
Community Development
Specialist
4. Mid-Term Review      Task Manager, Sociologist,  November   15
Mission              Irrigation Engineer, WUA     2000
Specialist, Economist,
Community Development
Specialist, and Procurement
Specialist
5. Two Regular          Task Manager, Sociologist,  Annually     9 (each)
Supervision Missions  Irrigation Engineer, WUA    1998-2003
Each Year            Specialist, Community
Development Specialist, and
Economist, Financial Analyst



AnnIx
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
WORKING PAPERS
Working Paper No. 1     Selection of Project Beneficiaries
Working Paper No. 1 a   Land Reform
Working Paper No. 2     Land Survey and Demarcation and Development
Working Paper No. 3     Land Development and Irrigation
Working Paper No. 4     Water Users Associations
Working Paper No. 5     Water Management Plans, Groundwater Monitoring and Studies
Working Paper No. 5a    Groundwater Potential in Hadramawt
Working Paper No. 6     Technical Advice to Farmers
Working Paper No. 6a    Agriculture
Working Paper No. 6b    Livestock Sector
Working Paper No. 6c    Livestock Projects
Working Paper No. 7     Poverty Strategy in the Project
Working Paper No. 7a    Participatory Approach and Mechanisms
Working Paper No. 7b    Women's Economic Activities
Working Paper No. 7c.    Off-Farm Activities
Working Paper No. 7d    Fisheries
Working Paper No. 7e    Collaboration with SFD
Working Paper No. 8.    Community Development
Working Paper No. 8a    Environmental Protection through Communities
Working Paper No. 9     Implementation Schedule
Working Paper No. 10    Terms of reference for Project Staff
Working Paper No. 11    Legal Texts
Working Paper No. 18    Financial and Economic Analysis
Working Paper No. 1 8a    Cropping Patterns and Farm Budgets
Working Paper No. 19    Project Costs and Financing
Working Paper No. 20    Cost Tables
Working Paper No. 21    Annual Poverty Lines
Working Paper No. 23    Contractual Arrangements for Carrying Out the Project



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28574
I                                                                I                                                       I        I                  I                           I        , _I                                        BD  87
41                 42                43                 44                45                 46                 47                 4E                46                  5'                51                 52'                53 S,                                55
REPUBLIC OF YEMENSAD                                                                            ARBA-- --
R E P U B L I C O F Y E M E N 5~~ A    U  D  I                               A    R  A     g I A  __-\-  8X,rtre0{ou
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                   _-- - -     n-OqMAqtNc
PRCPOJSED PROEIET AREA        -       MA N ROADS
*   DISTRICT CERITERS                     SEC oNDARY RISATS                                        _                                                7z\o    
PROA NCE CENTERS                         INTERNAT ONAL AIRPORTS                               /
NAT.OrAL CAI[TAL                      SEA POETS                                          /
WADS                                            /                                                  *Sanar\
A0VERNORATF TrOUNDARIES                      /
-  -   INTERIN4TONAL ROUNDAR R            /ES>Hcboru1
/                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17
(    .-'                                                                            ,7                                 roiriba
t                                     -L" 'f                                   47'/ Mi                                                 (/rI                                      \n
i   5rur dAh   <  vD /  *                                                                                                                        'H/  )  /<DcmqH
'  'Zqokf                                f bFi:D_-Rk16
N     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mY
Moydi  HArAd    H      Al H in      Al                                                        I ,/                       Ar  I
AMr                  w           d *                  1/z A Hbr                                                 SeDe      Gaond*Gl GOr 
SAp                   Abr Onnon                                                                 oGhn /   A  *    ib'hb
Al Lirhr,1ya          Holism         mcjt-            Onni nMiYlQii7eM      1    ,                   -;                 DemiIS'h
Al    Al 4AF,A                      "\ .                  I                                       \'                              ~
Sal,! Az , Zo             SANA'A                      Mon    1 ied4  $         ShaAsro                                                                                   Lo t  uSsh
Vff ) 9 ;+ / \ > AltS H                                                                                                                   SU       r        H
Al Hodeidoh 4                         IAAUDi                      Niiq0bol 8                                          A AN d * WYAR  R  -i
. *Ip                                                   b Zobiob              A  , *              W  I                                      inAli             Wadi Ahawor, Wadi Me,ifah
\  P/                                   H0               r         ll                        <;                               A /AH-wh                        & W.d;Hi E.
t                  ~~~~~~~M-whil .    H-.ad            AdE       gu Lb                   Ahwr'ro                                                                                                                                                        13 -~
K.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
* ~~~~~~~~~~AIT,+ l   Bhh 4                                          '\ Se IBRD 28577
k              k                         Lsh.l  f9X4rwadiiO  r ilassr                                                                                                                                                    Socotra
E I H I O  P I A   >.        , -r     n6.Aden                                                                                    o   25  SO  75  10 Kibmess                                                         {YemenJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2550   5  100 il-
ETHIOPIA                  ".AlF                                              Gh.iod'I                                                                                               I       
L   ht Turorr          --                                                                                                         0      25      50     75      00 MIss                           Somhah         Darsah              I2- -
41   4  /  'JIBOU. I    I         4                7Ai~4 46-                               K47)                                                                                                                    The Brj 5   5t0   51>  t cmenJ  3othffbers Bh
(YeMe)                         (Yeme)
4]                  42 /         DJIBOUTI                   AV'                 45                  46                  47'                  6                   R                                                53'5'5'5'
APRL1997






48n20                       ~~~~~~~~~16-oo,            I                                                                               2, A!VWo~~tM1Z
48020.   ~   10ool48040'  o   SEIYUN                                       TR49 0' RIM   Qassarri
SHIBAM          t                 MUDIRIYA                    I                MARIKAZ              9
ALM ATN                                                      .         MARKA                                                          vTarim    -Io' Al Jarcb   1. Gcber
.Mr,,D; .I;RI Y AA                          Y    H   J           3   B o o r  ( W o sI ) ;   S  B oorlEa   )   \   | t   ,~  1 ......  _ _ B Wnor   ,
4~BJUAYMAH                                       4 . Bor(asl)                         o< B-fPit
4-                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z TRI                                16'00' 
/i c.,. . - Shibam                        X                                  e5. B1il- LGfidh.
Shibarn       / ;eiyun,/< N_.,                                         1A -  -  iSF1 AlSwairy
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fAAiGhurat
1.      Hiinen                    Al Qatin                                                                               ..                  I 9Blol
Borwo~~~~~~~~~~                                         MARKA7           6. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Al Sory
KHASHA--__2. B                                   arw'ha , Saoo
|-1 X   .  S    /   ;    s    .-                                       .   . .A  SF2. Al Rudud
'N  t / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~                                  ~           6  /hbi'aI"
17. Ukm A) Him3
<. /  < .h      hd                                                                        180                                                                      5       10      15
(                                                                                 I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAH          KILOMETERS
7ze?            M fv\ARKAZ
To Al Mukalla                                                            To Al Mukolulll                                                                   Thin nop u-on prod .eddby mth Map De.ig. tnitfofthe WaId Bon.k
f                                            The boundres, -   colrs, denn  no ton 0nyothe eftio
(p                                shoon~~~~~~~~~~A o- thin -op do -otHnply, on the pe-t of The World Book
roup ony jdg,oo onthelogo ntto Py t-rit-Y, ,onony
48020'                                                        4840'                                                           4900'         endorsement-oroceptnceolsochoundorren
I 4I- 14'             4           8'                                54'
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                   s A U D I   A R A B I A        -                        M A N
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   to
In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
PRPSE IESFRWADI HADRAMAUT                                                                         %o              , -   --rea ualo
PROPOSED SITESFOR LAND DEVELOPMENT             0      TOWNS                                             -           ,j
A      PROPOSED STATE FARMS                         -         ASPHALT ROADS                                                           SANA'A  R E P U B L I C
:j~7  WHADP III (ON-GOING)                            ----   MAIN TRACKS AND COBBLED ROADS                         '>                          OF   YEMEN    .C tl
>___ -.  MARKAZ BOUNDARIES (SUB-DISTRICT)                                       '-
MUDIRIYA BOUNDARIES (DISTRICT) _
'    WADI BOUNDARIES                                                                                        ET H-':                                                                        It' Ost    Qh
ETHFIOPIA> o'       a            608, 
04   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I.  I                                    ,    Id,~~~~~~~~~~~~4  8,  5






44                          -      45s 0Pv 460                                                        -47                                     48                                  49
SHABWA
)                                                                            / / Bhaei                                                           HAD RAM OUT
0 *                                        1                                              Wadi                      , ?+s
WC  2.>   "/ /Wad?
'7I>  \v; =' K                                                     r         ..          ,i'X              Hamman  A   -t'  u 
rb                                            n4R0
140~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-1i4~~~~~J :V .L-                                                                                                                         ' .I R:  w/ rali                        HaicMiaa<;tir
)        'i            /       =        t           1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20. Al Malbooic  i^~
I ,diyah W                                                                  Wadi
\>\{#      .t Ba!c        \A/~~~vao!i   /        .j.   
;\yIubc                                                    22. Al Naqa'   rwar
XJ      f    \  /-  ~~~~~Shaqro
.      i    ~~~21 Khabt    r\/ -
.-   <   Al Asloon1i  /  /                                                                                                                             13'3
- 1 3'                                       \                                                                                                               0Rbar  * , Q J I 4 1 M 5 > < tie,    25  50  75 Kilomelters
See iBRD 28577                                                                         0                           I              i
0            25            50            75 Miles
--~---   ''tf rrlllf.;,l   ,,,   ,_ (I                                                                                        Thap a'ouno7pvdcndoS bey th0MooTP Dyb iMDenUnit of The World B3-k.
tho oednio colr,dnominations -nd-ay ther in16enneion
/o.   n tin map do _t iply, n the po.tt The Word 'oi r
Drop ayjdqnonton the leyel aatotn of any te'on-t, or any
444                                  45A                                4A6                                    470                                 nroonoanto.acoptnan of suh h-odorien,
%   42     44-        46         408-        0          -         54
REPUBLIC OF YEMENSAI AR BA-O N
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                        a             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s A U D I   A R A B I A    _-        0  M A N
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                         I
WADI AWAR, WADI MEIFA'AH AND WADI HAJR                                                                                        ,0                                                     80'
PROPOSED SITES FOR LAND DEVELOPMENT                                                                    I    A-ol[
A      PROPOSED STATE FARMS                                                              g        aSANAA__.          rap
_ , ,* WADIS                                                                                             R E P U B L IC                                         t
HIGHWAYS                                                                           9OM' 
>   -  GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                              0.
ETHIOPIA.mon    tO
-  42  -n ..                  4'-Sco? --' W
_   _   _ _  _5                                                                                                                         2__ _ _ _ _, >__ _ _ ____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.__ _ _ _ _   I  I1 s  X t r 0JU  






IBRD 28577
4515'                                            40525'
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES
-1320'                                 <-j/1    0RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WADI BANA & HASSAN AREAS
.* !   ii -ot               \ X                        si'sUj    KHABTALASLOOMSITE
j;  (}(             L3             \2             \MAIN CANALS
0     TOWNS
-   ROADS
Jr \} | 1- 1           t ALHUSN
ARRAW-WA
1' 0
i       I'  N                                            '
AD DIRJAJ
-13'15'   \   i  1  \\  .\
' IM':   0',  '                  \\                            -I 1                    2    3    4    5          1315
N<oX   X                                           t                      KILOMETERS
o        'N                 0~~~~        ~      ~~~~~~GIAR  UB
/ nSSS            l   l    /    aUTH
21. Khabt A Asloomn
-13010 O                                          \t-~                <                            ~\>                              1310'1
This mzp wos produced by tho Musp De-gn Unil of The Wor-d Bok.A
The boundries, colors deinotions and -ny other ih,,a-iin                                       ZNJBAR
shown an this map do ot imply, on the por of The Wor/d BOrAb
Grasp, oy judgment on Ite logo! status of ony te-rito.X oro ny
endorseme,t oraccept-nce of such boundaries.                    45'20'
SUI   ARABIA 
0'8                      /6S       48
6 <.,     ~~S A U D I  A R A 3 I A   _        ~       . OMAN\\ 
18 'N,,o                            /.                                                          ,     
I'   5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1'5
-   \    t *  b>><  QQS                    \   /  --         ~~~~~~EL KOD 2  0/4e5
-1      * eSANA'A
R E        B L  C.
N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
\ e >  <)   O r  af: i\.,. E 1\  2  ~~GL7 iJ i      A  sb E i    /       Iq                          Gulf oiAien
\, \  <f  To Acen/ '      
ETHIOPIA .I   -2 -
APRIL 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:          68350   YEMv
Type:      SAR



