Report No. PIC2267
Project Name                   Yemen-Southern Governorates Project (@+)
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Rural Development/Poverty Reduction
Project ID                     YEPA5902
Borrower                       Government of Yemen
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAWR)
Contact Person                 H.E. Mr. A. S. Al-Jabali, Minister
P.O. Box 1185, Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Fax No.: 967-1-209-509
Date of this PID               February 12, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date       March 1997
Projected Board Date           October 7, 1997
1.   Background.   Agriculture is a major sector of the Yemeni economy,
contributing a quarter of national income. About half the population
depends on agriculture for its main source of livelihood. Growth of
agriculture has been around 2 percent, while the population has been
growing at over 3 percent. The result has been growing income disparity
between town and country and migration from the countryside to the
towns. With the unification of the two Yemens in 1990, the southern
governorates faced a change in agricultural development policy. The
Government of the unified country decided to reverse the previous
nationalization and the focus on communal and cooperative production,
and to encourage a return to private individual systems of production.
Implementation of this policy and the return of lands to private
ownership have caused some dislocation of production and in some cases
loss of employment and income. Recently, the Government of Yemen has
highlighted the priority to be given to improving economic and social
conditions in the southern governorates. As a top priority, the
Government has requested help from IDA to finance a rural development
project in the southern governorates, based on community participation,
aimed at helping those whose incomes have dropped as a result of the
return of lands and at ensuring environmentally-sustainable development
of rural areas.
2.   Project Objectives.   The objectives of the proposed project would
be: (a) to help raise the incomes of about 6,400 very poor rural
individuals and their families (30-35,000 people) in the southern
governorates of Yemen sustainably above the poverty level. The target
population would largely comprise those adversely affected by recent
changes in land tenure; (b) to reinforce community cohesion and raise
the level of welfare in 40 extended rural communities in the southern
governorates where there is a very high concentration of poor people;
and (c) to test innovations regarding the involvement of beneficiaries
in planning and implementation, and regarding a business approach to
project management.
3.   Project  Description.   The project would comprise three components



which, taken together, are designed to have a significant impact on the
problem of rural poverty in four of the southern governorates of Yemen.
The components are:
land allocation and development or rehabilitation for about 1,100
poor landless farm families on about 2200 ha. Specific activities will
be: (a) land allocation; (b) land development covering about 2,200
hectares of irrigated land; (c) land rehabilitation, comprising the
rehabilitation of up to 1,400 hectares of land; and (d) farmer services.
off-farm income development for about 5,300 poor people. This
component would include: (a) support for livestock development; (b)
promotion of services and micro-enterprise; and (c) support for fishing.
economic and social development activities for about 40 rural
communities with high concentrations of poor people. This would
include: (a) development of community management skills and
institutions; (b) a community development fund to make small grants on
a cost sharing basis for community projects; and (c) an environmental
protection and awareness program.
4.   Project Cost and Financing.   Project cost is estimated at US$37
million. The project would be financed by an IDA Credit of US$20
million, by beneficiaries' cost sharing, by the Government, and by
possible cofinancing. Government has requested cofinancing from IFAD.
5.   Implementation.   The project has been established as a temporary
project unit by the Council of Ministers, which oversees its activities
through a steering committee chaired by the Minister of Agriculture.
Project staff are being hired by open competitive bidding and work under
private sector conditions. All project undertakings would be carried
out by contract with the best qualified and committed individuals and
organizations. Individual and group participation in initiation, design
and implementation of activities would be the guiding operating
principle of project interventions. Cost-effectiveness and speed of
implementation would be prime targets: a ratio of direct benefits to
overhead of 90:10 has been set.
6.   Sustainability.   Sustainability of project interventions would be
assured through the following main characteristics of the project: (a)
land development would only take place on sites where water availability
is sustainable, and the technology used would ensure continued
sustainability; (b) the off-farm component would aim at sustainability
through market orientation; all activities would be directed to pockets
of demand; and (c) institutionally, the project would achieve
sustainability through the provision of the necessary support to
community organizations to enable them to manage their affairs more
efficiently by the end of the project.
7.   Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement.   Principal lessons from IDA
experience in Yemen have been built into the design as follows:
implementation performance in the public sector is poor - this should be
countered by the autonomous project unit, by maximum beneficiary
participation, and by the emphasis on competitive contracting to procure
goods and services; and overhead is heavy and little benefit reaches the
-2 -



target population - the lean project unit and specific performance
ratios set should minimize overhead.
8.   Program and Poverty Category.   Program of targeted interventions.
9.   Environmental Aspects.   This project has been classified as
Category B (see Annex).
10. Benefits. The project would supply the means of economic
livelihood for about 6,400 very poor individuals and their families (30-
35,000 people in total), together with other non-quantifiable benefits
arising from community development. The farm development would be
expected to generate incomes of between $2,600 and $4,000 per family.
The fisheries component would generate incomes in excess of $3,000 a
year per family. The project's overall rate of return is estimated at
14 percent. Certain components of the project would be likely to earn
substantially higher rates of return.
11.  Risks.     Project risks include water resource sustainability -
water sustainability has been the key criterion in project design, some
sites were excluded and some development is being phased. At the local
level, measures to ensure responsible farmer management are incorporated
in the project. Also, the institutional design is experimental and will
require political commitment and good management to make it work.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Task Manager:        Christopher Ward, Resident Mission
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Fax No. 967-1-269247
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 29, 1997
Environmental Annex
The project carries a number of environmental risks especially with
respect to water management, sustainable land use and sustainable
farming practices. Impact assessment was conducted during preparation
according to World Bank guidelines. The availability of groundwater
is a major constraint in Yemen and groundwater availability has been a
major factor in shaping the land development component. Land will
only be developed where water resources can be sustained, and a number
of development sites have been rejected from the project on these
-3 -



grounds. The project will require and finance water meters on the
wells drilled with project financing. The risk of aquifer
contamination will be mitigated through careful site selection and
through requiring the sealing off the upper aquifers. Sites where
risks of salination exist have been excluded from the project. The
relatively harsh conditions of the project area require careful on-
farm husbandry, particularly soil and water management. This risk
will be mitigated by training. The project will not directly finance
the use of pesticides and will encourage the use of integrated pest
management techniques. Efforts to enhance animal health and care will
increase efficiency of production and decrease non-productive use of
grazing and water resources.
-4-



