                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 36380-YE




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (PPFI-Q0310 COFN-04150 IDA-29980)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.7 MILLION
                                  (US$24.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                                 FOR A

                SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION




                                             August 7, 2006




Water, Environment, Social and Rural Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective December 2005)

                                          Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
                                                  YR 1 = US$ 0.0051
                                                 US$ 1 = YR 194

                                                    UNITS
                                          1 Hectare = 2.38 Feddans
                                           1 Feddan = 0.42 Hectare

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                           January 1    December 31

                                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACU   Agricultural Cooperatives Union                             QAG      Quality Assurance Group
AFSED Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development               RAP       Road Access Program
BDA   Business Development Advisors                               SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
BAS   Beneficiary Assessment Study                                SEDU      Small Enterprise Development Unit
CACB  Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank                    SFD       Social Fund for Development
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                                 SGRDP     Southern Governorates Rural
CPPR  Country Portfolio Performance Review                                   Development Project
ERR   Economic Rate of Return                                     WHP III   Wadi Hadramoout Project III
FAO   Food and Agriculture Organization                           YR        Yemeni Rial
FRR   Financial Rate of Return
GOY   Government of Yemen
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IDA   International Development Association
IFAD  International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAI   Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOLA  Ministry of Local Administration
MOPIC Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
NWRA  National Water Resources Authority
O&M   Operation and Maintenance
PDC   Participatory Development Coordinators
PDO   Project Development Objective
PIU   Project Implementation Unit
PMU   Project Management Unit
PWP   Public Works Project




                                            Vice President:   Christiaan J. Poortman
                                          Country Director    Emmanuel Mbi
                                            Sector Director   Inger Andersen
                                           Sector Manager     Luis Constantino
                     Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Naji Abu-Hatim

                                             YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
                   SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION


                                                   CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              42
Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                 46
Annex 10. Tables for Economic Analysis                                           48

Project ID: P005902                                                  Project Name: SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES
                                                                     AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION
Team Leader: Naji Abu-Hatim                                          TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: August 7, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES                                    L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0310;
                            AGRICULTURAL PRIVATIZATION                                               COFN-04150; IDA-29980
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (36%); Irrigation and drainage (22%); Agricultural
                            extension and research (21%); Other social services (21%)
                  Theme: Land administration and management (P); Improving labor markets (P); Rural non-farm
                            income generation (P); Small and medium enterprise support (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/20/1996                                     Effective:                           06/29/1998
     Appraisal: 03/26/1997                                         MTR:                             10/27/2000
      Approval: 11/04/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 04/30/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Yemen/Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
                      Other Partners:      International Fund for Agricultural Development

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kermal Dervis
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Inder Sud
Sector Manager:                 Luis Constantino                               Salah Darghouth
Team Leader at ICR:             Naji Abu-Hatim                                 Christopher Ward
ICR Primary Author:             Wendy E. Wakeman
                                Jean-Francois Barres


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project Development Objectives (PDO) were to: (i) sustainably raise the income of very poor rural
people in four southern governorates (largely those affected by changes in land tenure) to above the poverty
level; (ii) reinforce community cohesion and raise the welfare level in communities in the southern
governorates that have a very high concentration of poor people; (iii) test innovations regarding
involvement of beneficiaries in planning and implementation; and (iv) test innovations regarding a business
approach to project management. The project was conceived and designed in a post-conflict context, after
the civil war of 1994. This civil war had aggravated the country's economic problems and deepened
poverty levels, particularly among the population of the southern governorates. This created a strong
imperative for intensive post-war development assistance, contributing to the design of a project with
ambitious and complex objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
A. Land Allocation and Development or Rehabilitation (base cost US$24.8 million): Allocation through
secure titles and development or rehabilitation of about 3,900 ha of irrigated land, to about 1,950 very poor
landless families.

B Off-Farm Income Development (base cost US$5.0 million): Livestock development, fishing
development, promotion of other revenue-earning services and enterprises (including provision of training
and apprenticeships and development of financial services for off-farm activities).

C. Economic and Social Development of Rural Communities (base cost US$6.8 million): Training and
logistical support to community organizations and provision of grants for community sub-projects.

D. Preparation of Future Projects (base cost US$1.0 million): Technical assistance and training to help
prepare future projects in the sector, including possible projects for irrigation improvement, field services,
and animal health.

E. Operation of the Project Management Unit (base cost US$2.7 million): Establishment of an
autonomous, business-like Project Management Unit (PMU) for the duration of the project.

According to the original design, the International Development Association (IDA) was to provide
financing for the land allocation, preparation of future projects, and project management components
(Components A, D, and E), while the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would
provide funding for off-farm income and community development (Components B and C). In addition, the
Government of Yemen (GOY) and the beneficiaries would each provide about 10 percent of project costs.

3.4 Revised Components:

A. Land Allocation and Development or Rehabilitation

This component was modified several times. By the end of the project it had changed substantially, with
the land allocated reduced to 412 ha, new activities introduced, and the cost reduced from the SAR
projection of US$24.8 million to the actual of US$8.7 million.

The amount of land allocation in this component was reduced from 3,900 to 2,900 ha. after the Arab Fund



                                                    - 2 -

for Social and Economic Development (AFSED) came forward to finance 1,000 ha of land development
sites under the Wadi Hadramout III Project (land that during preparation had been included in the Southern
Governorates Rural Development Project). The Credit Agreement was amended on July 26, 1999 to
include the rehabilitation of spate irrigation structures1/ as an alternative type of land-based poverty
alleviation, and this activity utilized the funds that had been allocated for the development of the 1,000 ha.

During the 2000 Mid-Term Review, it became evident that the GOY was not able to establish ownership
rights on most of the land sites identified during preparation, as the GOY was reluctant to systematically
address private claims on public land allocated to the project. Accordingly, the amount of land under this
component was reduced from 2,900 ha to 1,507 ha, an amount of US$4 million was cancelled from the
Credit in August 2001, and US$3 million was reallocated to provide capital grants for agriculture activities
identified by the local authorities, such as flood protection, erosion control, etc. In this way, it was felt that
funds still would be used for land-based poverty alleviation. A second modification on October 31, 2002
further reduced the size of the component to 412 ha in four sites, all located in Wadi Hadramout.

The Credit Agreement was amended on February 11, 2000 to include a clean-up operation of pesticide
contamination at Surdud farm in the Tihama region. An amount of US$350,000 was reallocated from the
IDA civil works disbursement category of the project to cover this activity.

C. Community Development

The original design envisaged an extremely intensive community participation methodology, implementing
multiple interventions in only 40 communities after a lengthy community planning process. This design
proved too complex and time consuming and was changed to a simpler approach, undertaking single
interventions in about 250 communities, working through local councils. The Credit Agreement was
amended on October 31, 2002 to explicitly include rural access roads in the sub-projects eligible under this
component and US$4.3 million was allocated for IDA financing of roads sub-projects.

The project had originally focused largely on poverty alleviation through land development (through land
allocation to dispossessed tenants) and community participation. After great difficulties with trying to
implement these two components as originally designed, as indicated above, the project was modified
several times and eventually became more of a community infrastructure project, appreciably improving
the welfare of rural communities through local and community level infrastructure sub-projects. In view of
this, the project could have been formally restructured and the PDOs (listed in Section 4.1 below) revised in
order to reflect these major changes in project scope and design. This could have resulted, for example, in
retaining only the second objective, which could have focused on increasing welfare levels. If this change
had been made early on, this could have led to better ratings for the project. In addition, notwithstanding
the large changes that took place, no revised targets were created, nor targets for the new sub-components,
thus making it difficult to assess the degree of achievement of a number of the activities implemented by the
project.

1/ Spates are floodwaters of high intensity and low duration.




                                                        - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated marginally unsatisfactory 2/, in line with the QAG quality at entry rating of
marginal 3/.     Although the objectives were consistent with GOY's priorities and the 1996 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), and considerable work was undertaken, the design was overly complex and the
risks were not adequately assessed, causing significant difficulties during implementation. Project design
included ambitious institutional objectives related to the PMU and community development planning and
capacity building components, objectives which were difficult to achieve in a context of poor governance.
The project was conceived in a highly sensitive, post-civil war political context. The GOY was under
pressure to deliver post-war assistance on a rapid and widespread basis and thus tried to address a wide
range of problems all at the same time. This may have been one factor leading to the complex and high risk
design.

The project objectives were in line with the government policy after the reunification of the country and
with IDA's CAS approved in 1996. The project supported the three main objectives of the CAS:

       (a) CAS objective #1: stabilization, structural reforms and social protection: the project was
           designed to provide land allocation and training to improve the livelihoods of the poorest rural
           communities which had suffered loss of land and disruption of their livelihood patterns;
       (b) CAS objective #2: portfolio implementation and sustainability of investments: the project was
           pioneering a new management approach through an autonomous executing agency and promoting
           community participation as the main foundation for sustainability; and
       (c) CAS objective #3: sustainable natural and human resource development: sustainable
           management of water, soil and overall environment were built into the project and human
           resource development was supported through skills training.

The project design had to deal with several types of complexity. Project activities were scattered across
four governorates covering half the country. Components covered a number of sectors, requiring numerous
types of expertise. The land allocation component involved a complicated mix of legally and politically
sensitive issues, while the community development component involved an ambitious, intensive design. The
first two types of complexity were addressed through the decentralized management of the project and the
use of international and local consultants.       The risks of the last two types of complexity were not
adequately assessed, resulting eventually in the major downsizing of the land allocation component and a
substantial redesign of the community development component. A significant amount of time, at least two
years, was lost prior to the final modifications of these two components.

______________
2/   The principal performance ratings for this ICR use the four-point rating scale in use during the preparation of
this ICR (highly satisfactory, satisfactory, unsatisfactory, highly unsatisfactory). In the text, at times a more
nuanced rating scale is also used (marginally satisfactory or marginally unsatisfactory) to more fully capture the
variations in this complex project. With a six-point scale, this project would be rated marginally unsatisfactory.
This rating differs from the final ISR rating of MS, as the ISR ratings were focusing on the achievements of the
modified and newly introduced sub-components, while the ICR focused on the achievements related to the original
(unrevised) project goals and targets.
3/   The QAG rating system for this quality at entry assessment as well as for the later quality of supervision
assessment contained four ratings: highly satisfactory, satisfactory, marginal and unsatisfactory. Thus, a rating of
marginal is equivalent to unsatisfactory or marginally unsatisfactory under the current QAG rating system.




                                                       - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

 The project's overall performance is considered marginally unsatisfactory. Although a number of outputs
and outcomes were achieved, especially through activities added during modifications, key targets of the
project's development objectives were not met (targets related to Objectives 1, 3 and 4 discussed below),
and the project was slow to take decisive action to drop or modify activities that were having serious
implementation difficulties. At the design stage, the most important component was the land allocation one
(about 60 percent of total, planned project costs). However, due to the difficulties encountered with land
allocation, the number of families receiving land was only about 12 percent of that planned. Other
land-based development activities, such as spate irrigation, were introduced, but these could not generate
the same level of increase in incomes. Actual costs for this component were 35 percent of that planned for
the component (about 25 percent of total, actual project costs), and funds were reallocated to the local and
community level infrastructure sub-projects.

Nonetheless, the project did appreciably improve the welfare of over 500,000 people in poor and remote
areas through community development activities in about 250 communities, as well as improve the income
of some 5,800 individuals and their families (about 38,000 people).           According to the Beneficiary
Assessment Study (BAS), economic and social activities included 71 schools, 79 water supply schemes, 17
rural roads, 16 health centers, 5 electricity networks, 5 sewage systems, 3 women's centers, 40 small spate
and wadi cleaning projects and 7 other projects. The BAS found that participants were very satisfied with
the benefits they had received from the project. The project had a satisfactory economic impact (ERR of
19 percent and NPV of YR 836 million. The cost benefit analysis was applied to about 30 percent of
project cost).

Objective 1: Sustainably raise the income of very poor rural people in four southern governorates
(largely those affected by changes in land tenure) to above the poverty level

Achievement of key performance indicators for this objective did not reach the levels planned. The SAR
had a target of raising the incomes of about 8,750 poor rural individuals and their families (about 50 ­
60,000 people) above the poverty level. Only 66 percent of this target number had incomes raised. As the
land allocation component was significantly downsized, 236 families received land (according to the BAS),
as opposed to the target of 1,950. Four hundred and thirteen were trained as paravets (the target was 500),
with annual income from this activity below the target of US$1,000. The BAS states that the operating
paravets interviewed consider this work as a secondary source of income, with an average income of a
paravet with a toolkit around YR 64,000 (US$329) and the average income of one without a toolkit YR
42,000 (US$216). Two hundred and eighty families were to take up fishing and acquire an annual income
of US$3,000. The BAS indicates that 157 were trained in artisan fishing and related fields. The average
income of those interviewed by the BAS increased from YR 86,167 (US$497) to YR 262,500 (US$1,360).
The BAS noted that the increase would have been greater if access to credit had been possible, as originally
envisaged.

__________________
4/ The Beneficiary Assessment Study (BAS) was conducted during the final months of the project, and the BAS
report was issued in November 2005.         The methodology of the BAS included focus group discussions,
conversational interviews, and an institutional assessment. Those interviewed included individual beneficiaries,
key informants, members of community organizations, and members of local councils.          Purposive random
sampling and cluster sampling were utilized to select interviewees.




                                                        - 5 -

Objective 2: Reinforce community cohesion and raise the welfare level in communities in the
southern governorates that have a very high concentration of poor people

The project had originally planned to improve the welfare of people in about 40 communities (up to
150,000 people) through multiple sub-projects in these 40 communities. Instead, after the design of the
community development component was changed and funds were reallocated from the land allocation
component, the project succeeded in increasing the welfare levels of many more people (over 500,000) with
single interventions in about 250 communities. Community cohesion was to have been reinforced through
the development of community organizations. A number of community organizations were created to
manage infrastructure provided under the project, however, the training provided and therefore the
institutional development effected was minimal. The beneficiaries in the BAS focus group discussions
expressed the need for the training of community committees in management, accounting, and operation
and maintenance of infrastructure (such as water systems).

The SAR performance indicators for this objective were based on the original design of targeting 40
communities: (i) 40 communities to set up community institutions; and (ii) regular meetings of these
institutions. These are not adequate indicators for this objective, as they do not capture a change in welfare
level and do not include a measure of community training. Nevertheless, the results are as follows:
although the BAS did not count the number of committees set up, as community development activities
were spread across numerous communities, the number of committees formed most likely largely exceeded
40 in number. Project Progress Reports indicate that 11 out of 35 community water supply committees
hold meetings.

Objective 3: Test innovations regarding involvement of beneficiaries in planning and implementation

As the community development component was redesigned, the original performance targets were not met.
Three communities instead of the target of 40 prepared development plans, and communities were not
involved in annual monitoring and evaluation (M&E) meetings as originally planned.               The original
innovations to be tested proved to be too time intensive and cumbersome for communities. However, when
the redesign occurred, alternative community level innovations were not tested, nor were new performance
indicators or targets created. Innovations were introduced at a higher level, through training of local
councils in support of the new decentralization law, which provided important support to the
decentralization effort.

Objective 4: Test innovations regarding a business approach to project management

The goal was to use a `business approach' to ensure a quick project start-up, implementation at low cost
(with a low management overhead), resulting in maximum direct benefits delivered in a timely and efficient
manner to beneficiaries. The targets were: (i) project implemented on schedule and within budget; and (ii)
overhead-direct benefit ratio of US$1:US$9 or better. Results against these targets were mixed, and the
capacity of the Project Management Unit (PMU) was not adequate for the size and complexity of the
project. The PMU was quickly established as an autonomous agency and implemented at a low cost (with
a project overhead of only 6 percent). Nevertheless, with the complicated and high risk nature of the
project, it would have been advisable to have more of an emphasis on an adequately staffed PMU instead of
keeping overheads low. Due to the implementation problems, the project timeframe was extended. Total
project costs were less than the original budget, due to the major modifications and related reduction in
activities.

4.2 Outputs by components:



                                                     - 6 -

A. Land Allocation and Development or Rehabilitation (US$24.8 million SAR, US$8.7 million actual)
- Unsatisfactory

A.1. Land Allocation and Development/Rehabilitation (3,900 ha) (US$18.5 million SAR, US$3.3
million actual). This sub-component is rated highly unsatisfactory. After project modifications, only 12
percent of the land allocation target was achieved (236 families receiving land as opposed to the target of
1,950 families). The GOY was not able to deliver on its commitment to provide 2,900 ha of public land for
development and allocation to poor landless farmers. Under pressure from the Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation (MOPIC) and IDA to improve disbursement, the PMU went ahead with the
development of 100.4 ha on the Heinen site, drilling wells on several sites and buying 5 pumping sets,
before the land was allocated through free hold titles to the beneficiaries, which was in violation of a key
dated covenant. Seventy nine percent of the beneficiary farmers interviewed by the BAS indicated they
were happy and optimistic about the future, and 96 percent of them considered land ownership to provide
their families with security against poverty.

A.2 Rehabilitation of Spate Irrigation Schemes in Shabwa, Hadramout and Abyan Governorates.
(New component, US$4.9 million actual)

This sub-component is rated marginally satisfactory.        This component (added in 1999 during the
modifications) contributed to increasing sustainable farming income as well as to the promotion of overall
economic and social development in rural communities.          The project rehabilitated 6 spate irrigation
structures, improving agricultural production on about 3,800 ha benefiting about 2,400 farming families
and developed a new spate irrigation structure in Wadi Dura irrigating 711 ha and serving about 1,000
families. These structures have had a positive impact on irrigation; and the diversion structures provide
flood protection to downstream villages and have a positive, although difficult to quantify, impact on
groundwater recharge upstream and downstream of the structures. BAS focus group participants noted
that the spate irrigation schemes have improved their access to water and ultimately increased their
incomes. In addition, employment opportunities were created for residents during the construction phase.
Communities have formed irrigation water committees which can help ensure adequate operation and
maintenance.

A.3 Rehabilitation of the Surdud Farm (new component, US$0.4 million actual)

This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. Cleaning of 30 tons of toxic pesticides residues in the
Surdud State Farm, in Tihama, was successfully carried out by FAO. As a result, the risk of pollution of
the aquifer has been mitigated.

A.4. Farmer Services (US$0.02 million actual)

The sub-component is rated marginally unsatisfactory. The target of 3,900 hectares of land brought into
production was not met (see Section A.1. above). However, the project did introduce a new activity to train
153 extension agents (in general extension, bee-keeping and coffee cultivation), and 774 farmers in date
palm, mango, coffee cultivation and bee-keeping. The project provided farm management advice to
beneficiaries of the Heinen, Sweiry, Barwaj and Ba-Ateer sites. BAS interviews indicated that farmers
found the training useful, although inclusion of more practical aspects would have made it more valuable.




                                                    - 7 -

B. Off-Farm Income Component (US$5 million SAR, US$1.9 million actual) - Marginally
Unsatisfactory

B.1. Livestock Development (US$0.9 million SAR, US$0.7 million actual)

This sub-component is rated marginally unsatisfactory While some targets were almost met, the targets for
female paravets were not. In addition, actions to help ensure the operating viability of the trained paravets
were insufficient: the design did not include provision of toolkits to all trainees, and planned follow-up did
not take place.

The target was 500 paravets trained and operating. Four hundred and thirteen were trained. Eighty six
percent of the paravets interviewed during the BAS were operating, and 42 percent of these were operating
without toolkits. The majority of non-operating paravets indicated that the lack of a toolkit has been a
primary reason for not delivering their services. Among the operating paravets interviewed, 92 percent
confirmed that the number of cases coming to them for treatment has increased since they began their work,
indicating the potential for an increased longer term impact on livelihoods.

The BAS found that most of the trainers have not maintained field contact with the paravet trainees as
recommended, and that the paravets have not been integrated into the veterinary service structure. The
percentage of women trained as paravets was 11 percent, as opposed to the target of 50 percent. Only 20
percent of the female paravets interviewed during the BAS were operating, and on a very limited scale,
mainly confining their services to their own families and neighbors and relatives. In addition, the project
provided training to extension agents and animal husbandry training to 237 women, many of whom have
transferred their skills to other families in their communities.

B.2. Fisheries (US$0.1 million SAR, US$0.2 million actual)

This sub-component is rated marginally unsatisfactory. Although a large percentage of those trained in
fishing are employed and their income levels have increased substantially, the number trained was less than
the target. In addition, the lack of credit inhibited trainees' ability to form their own businesses, which
could have increased their incomes further and would have contributed to the project's small business
development goals.

The project trained 157 youth in artisan fishing (56 percent of the SAR target of 280). Eight two percent
of those interviewed by the BAS are working full time in the fishing business. According to the BAS, their
average annual income has increased from US$497 a year to US$1,360 a year. Beneficiaries mentioned
additional benefits which can provide longer term impacts, including increased savings and a more stable
social life. The planned access to credit for boats, engines and fishing gear through the Fisheries IV Project
did not materialize. The project also introduced a new activity to train 21 youth in the maintenance of
marine engines and 24 in ice plant maintenance. The project contributed to enhancing the managerial and
financial capability of 32 fisheries societies/cooperatives through the training of 110 executive officers and
66 accountants.

B.3. Services and Microenterprise (US$3.8 million SAR, US$1.0 million actual)

This sub-component is rated marginally unsatisfactory. While a high percentage of the men are working in
the field in which they were trained and their income levels have increased, the lack of credit decreased their
chances of establishing their own businesses as originally planned. Furthermore, while 50 percent of those



                                                       - 8 -

trained were female (100 percent of the SAR target), the impact for female trainees was limited. The
overall employment rate of the women trainees interviewed by the BAS was 35 percent.

The project trained 1,993 youth in various vocational skills (64 percent of the SAR target of 3,000).
Seventy six percent of the men interviewed by the BAS are working in their field of training (above the 70
percent SAR target), and are generating an average income of US$1,414 a year. This was a sizeable
increase in income, given that the BAS indicated that about 80 percent of the male trainees interviewed had
not had permanent jobs prior to the project and had average annual incomes of US$426. The high
percentage of employment for male trainees indicates that the training they received related well to market
needs, and thus is likely to continue to supply them with employment opportunities into the future. The
planned collaboration with the Social Fund for Development (SFD) and the Small Enterprise Development
Unit (SEDU) concerning credit did not materialize.

C. Community Development (US$6.8 million SAR, US$19.6 million actual) - Marginally Satisfactory

C.1. Community Capacity Building (US$0.5 million actual)

This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory.         Development of community management skills and
institutions was to have been a key project activity. After project modification, capacity building was
initiated in 6 communities out of 40 expected in the SAR, and development plans were produced in three
communities. The original design consisted of a methodology with a very lengthy and intense participatory
process for the 40 communities. Project staff and communities quickly became frustrated with this long
process. In addition, local authorities were reluctant to focus the component on only 40 communities,
expecting the project to follow an approach similar to the SFD and the Public Works Project (PWP), which
were starting to operate in the same areas and spreading benefits more widely. Community capacity
building became limited to participation in sub-project selection and mobilization of the financial
contribution to investment costs.

The project did provide important support to GOY's decentralization policy through the training of 2,000
members of 77 newly established local councils.           The training including discussion of the new
decentralization law as well as topics such as procurement, project supervision and disbursement. The
project also pioneered the preparation of two District Development Plans in Hadramout Governorate.

C.2.Community Development Fund

C.2.1 IFAD-Funded Activities (US$9.3 million actual)

This sub-component is rated satisfactory. Instead of having multiple interventions in 40 communities (with
a SAR target of making community development grants in up to 25 communities), the project successfully
implemented some 204 individual sub-projects in 200 communities in 50 districts (providing welfare
benefits directly or indirectly to about 331,000 persons, or about 47,000 households). The most important
sub-sectors were rural water supply and education, each with about 40 percent of expenditures and 35
percent of sub-projects. Rural water supply sub-projects, including new or expansion of existing networks,
have increased access to safe water for about 160,000 persons (about 23,000 households). Most of the
participants in the BAS focus group discussions indicated that their average water consumption had
increased by almost 100 percent.        The project completed 70 education sub-projects (new schools,
extensions or rehabilitation, including toilets and equipment), at an average cost of US$43,500 per school,
lower than the typical cost for the Ministry of Education. BAS focus group participants indicated that
schools were a top priority (along with water supply). They noted that provision of school facilities nearer



                                                     - 9 -

to home had increased the attendance of girls. Most sub-projects were identified at the community/village
level. Training for community committees was lacking.

C.2.1 IDA-Funded Activities (new component, US$9.1 actual) There were no targets for these new
activities.

Erosion Control Works (US$3.6 million actual). This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. In line
with the SAR objective to give priority to economic development of communities, in 2001 the project
invited the newly established local authorities to propose public agriculture-based infrastructure. As most
of the population in the southern governorates lives in wadis, erosion control and wadi bed alignment were
selected as priorities. The project carried out about 219 activities in the main wadis of Shabwa, Abyan,
and Lahj Governorates, benefiting about 57,100 people. According to the BAS, the works provided
protection to about 9,000 ha of agricultural land; 18,500 fruit trees; 3,150 houses; 64 units of social/public
infrastructure; and 190 wells. A majority of community members interviewed during the BAS felt that
these works were a priority for the community and had benefited the community as a whole. They felt that
the erosion control would improve the recharge of groundwater along the wadi bed.

Rural Roads (US$ 3.7 million actual). This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. The project
constructed 18 rural roads totaling 94 km and serving about 69,900 people, most of them in remote isolated
areas, in all southern governorates. Selection of road sites was done in consultation with the Road Access
Program (RAP), based on the requests from communities and local authorities. The RAP Design Manual
was used for the screening of local authorities/communities' proposals and for the design and supervision
of the roads, which were conducted by a highly qualified local consultant. Beneficiaries mentioned a
number of benefits from the road construction: (i) distance and time to agricultural markets has decreased,
reducing the cost of transporting agricultural goods and increasing incomes; (ii) distance to health centers
has decreased, providing particular benefits for emergency medical cases and pregnant women; and (iii)
commercial activities have increased in rural markets adjacent to the roads.

Other Community Projects. The project utilized IDA funds to complete: (i) 20 small spate/wadi protection
works amounting to US$1.1 million in Wadi Hadramout and Shabwa governorates; and (ii) 12 water
supply sub-projects for an amount of US$0.5 million in Wadi Hadramout, Shabwa and Abyan.

D. Studies for Preparation of New Projects (US$1.0 SAR, US$1.5 million actual) - Satisfactory

This component is rated satisfactory. The project played a major role in the development of the IDA
pipeline in agriculture and natural resources management in Yemen. All the new operations are fully in line
with the country Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) and the Bank's CAS: the Groundwater and Soil
Conservation Project, which is a follow-up to the Land and Water Conservation Project; the Irrigation
Improvement Project, which focuses on participatory irrigation management and on the rehabilitation and
improvement of the most important spate irrigation schemes in the Tihama, Abyan and Tuban coastal
plains; and the Sana'a Basin Water Management Project, addressing critical water management issues
around the capital city. In addition, the project financed key international assistance to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation's (MAI's) General Directorate of Irrigation to support MAI in the preparation
and supervision of irrigation infrastructure. Other studies included: (i) rehabilitation of Hanad Weir in
Ahwar (Abyan Governorate); (ii) a study of three reservoirs in Wadi Hadramout; and (iii) a study on date
palm tree disease.




                                                    - 10 -

E. Project Management Unit (US$2.7 million SAR, US$2.0 million actual) - Unsatisfactory

The PMU operated in a decentralized fashion from Seiyun, Wadi Hadramout, and was terminated, as
planned, after the completion of the project. Although the PMU had a good financial management system,
overall reporting was incomplete and behind schedule. Furthermore, the PMU could have acted more
quickly to address delays- proposing changes to project components or adding new activities sooner. In
addition, more follow-up was needed to ensure adequate community training and to maximize the impact of
skills training.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Cost Benefit Analysis

A cost/benefit analysis was conducted for the land development, livestock and fisheries components using
assumptions similar to the ones used for the SAR (period of analysis: 20 years for the land development,
and fisheries components, opportunity cost of capital: 10 percent). However, for the livestock component
the period of the analysis is reduced to 10 years to take into account the difficult working conditions of the
paravets, as observed by the BAS. Cropping patterns for the land development component are based on the
BAS findings and are different from the cropping patterns expected in the SAR. In addition, because of
their share of project cost, the spate irrigation (period of analysis 20 years) and the vocational and skill
training component (period of analysis 10 years) have also been included in the analysis. In the end, cost
benefit analysis is applied for about 30 percent of project cost. The overall ERR of the project is estimated
at 19 percent with a NPV of YR 836 million, compared to an overall ERR of 63 percent at SAR (weighted
average). Although an ERR weighted average of 63 percent was expected in the SAR, the overall ERR of
19 percent can be seen as a positive result given the complexity of the project and the difficult post-conflict
environment. Since the SAR did not include a consolidated analysis, comparison had to be done at a
component level and is summarized in the table in Annex 3. The poor performance of the spate irrigation
component and the marginal performance of the land development component are partially compensated by
the good performance of the off-farm income generation component. For the land development component
the analysis has been carried out for each scheme, using cropping patterns based on the BAS. The analysis
shows wide variations among schemes, linked to cropping patterns and actual investment cost. For the
spate irrigation component, separate analyses have been carried out for the new scheme (Amsalab-Nuqub)
and for the rehabilitated schemes. The analyses have been consolidated for the overall spate irrigation
component.

Sensitivity analysis to reduction in benefits shows that a 26 percent decrease in overall benefits would
reduce the NPV to zero. A detailed analysis is included in Annex 3.

Cost ­Effectiveness Analysis

A cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out for the sub-projects under the community development fund
(60 percent of project cost).      Comparable results are within the range of SAR expectations and
achievements of other similar projects active in the same area. Details are in Annex 3.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

Financial rate of returns (FRR) have been estimated for the land development, livestock and fisheries
components using a methodology similar to the one used for the SAR and the 2000 project modifications,
as well as for the spate irrigation and the vocational and skills training component. Financial rates of
return vary from 3 percent for the spate irrigation component to 100 percent for the vocational and skills
training component. In spite of the low FRR, the land development component generates acceptable net


                                                    - 11 -

farm income. FRRs for land development vary from -5 percent (Heinen site) to 27 percent (Sweiry site).
However, after five years of operation, the farm income before cost recovery of investment is expected to
vary from YR 308,400 per year in Heinen to YR 1,460,000 per year in Sweiry. Farm income is highly
sensitive to cropping patterns and yields. Heinen results are explained by lower yields and cropping
patterns with reduced allocation of alfalfa. This illustrates the importance of agricultural services to reach
optimal return from the land and secure the contribution of beneficiaries to the cost of equipment stipulated
in the land titles, YR 66,780 in installments over 15 years. Annual income generated for working paravets
(YR 42,000 - 64,000) and fishermen (YR 262,500) and for male vocational and skill training working
graduates (between YR 84,000 and YR 314,188 per year) are well above the 1998 lower poverty line for
Yemen (YR 38,580).

Fiscal Impact Fiscal impact from operations and maintenance (O&M) of large spate irrigation, rural roads,
schools and health centers is estimated to amount to about YR 87,249,000 per year. Adequate funding of
O&M through local budgets will be critical to ensure the sustainability of the benefits of the infrastructure.
Accordingly, relevant line ministries and local councils signed O&M agreements with the project prior to
sub-project start-up.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional development impact was mixed and is rated marginally unsatisfactory. At the
national level, the project Steering Committee was to have a function similar to a board of directors of a
company, with representatives from ministries and governors' offices. However, the Steering Committee
was not active after the initial years of the project, and thus it did not provide the oversight planned. The
PMU did provide an example of a streamlined approach to project management, but the emphasis on low
administrative overhead did not match well with the solid managerial capacity needed for such a complex
project.

The project did provide timely support to the government decentralization program and was the first project
to support the Ministry of Local Administration's (MOLA's) training program in the southern
governorates. In addition, the project contributed to building up the links between community development
at village level and local development at district level through the involvement of local councils in
sub-project implementation. Project design had intended a significant development of community skills and
institutions, but this emphasis was lost when the focus shifted to implementing sub-projects through the
local councils.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The GOY and the PMU were operating in a challenging and complicated post-civil war context. In
addition, implementation start-up took place in a highly fluid situation. The project had been designed with
a concern for providing land to tenant farmers dispossessed after the reversal of the previous land
nationalization policy.   However, as economic opportunities developed in urban areas, a number of
dispossessed tenants went to these locations for employment, thus necessitating a reformulation of
beneficiary selection. (Nevertheless, the BAS indicates that 59 percent of those who received land had been
dispossessed farmers.)     Furthermore, the legacy of the "welfare system" applied in the southern
governorates before reunification initially affected people's expectation of public interventions and
undermined the project's participatory approach, as communities were not accustomed to demand-driven
methods requiring community contributions.




                                                     - 12 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

After reunification, the GOY wanted to ensure that land allocated for development was 100 percent
government land, with no claims on it. Thus it extended the opportunity for people to raise their claims
through courts. Unfortunately, this resulted in numerous claims that GOY officials were reluctant to
address, thus severely affecting the implementation of the land allocation component.

The strong political support enjoyed by the project during preparation and during the first two years of
implementation eroded over time. The Steering Committee was active at the beginning when the project
was facing problems on the land component, but met on rare occasions in later years. At the technical
level, the MAI exercised only occasionally its monitoring and support roles. This improved during the
second half of the project and contributed positively to project achievements. Inadequate coordination
between headquarters planning offices and local branches within other line ministries occasionally led to
gaps (e.g. un-staffed schools or health centers).

The establishment of elected local councils in the year 2000 through the Law 4 on Local Authority created
an enabling environment for project activities and is very likely to improve the sustainability of project
achievements, as the local councils can help ensure sustainability of community level infrastructure.
Although there were delays in the allocation of counterpart funds, this did not hamper the ultimate physical
achievements of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The decentralization of project management, with a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) office located in
each governorate, was meant to facilitate the implementation of project activities over a very large area and
facilitate interaction with local authorities. However, the staffing of the PMU and PIUs did not match the
ambitious objectives of the project. The lack of an adequate M&E system at the start of the project and the
incapacity of the PMU to develop an efficient system during the life of the project negatively affected
compliance with the operation manual and project reporting requirements.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost is currently estimated at US$33.6 million. This is about US$12.2 (27 percent)
million less than the SAR estimate of US$45.8 million. This is due to the major modifications in project
components with the drastic reduction of the main component of the project (land allocation) from US$24.8
million to US$3.3 million. At completion the largest component is the community development one, with
US$19.6 million, compared to US$6.8 at appraisal. The modifications had major implications on the IDA
contribution which was reduced from US$24.7 million in the SAR to US$20.1 million at completion.
There was a significant shift in IDA allocation by component. The land allocation component received
US$2.52 million instead of US$20.6 million and US$9.12 million went to community projects, a
component expected to be financed exclusively by IFAD. The IFAD contribution was US$11.2 million
compared to US$11.3 million estimated in the SAR. Beneficiaries' contribution to project cost fell far
short of expectations. It is currently estimated at US$0.6 million, compared to US$ 5.4 million in the SAR.
GOY contribution was only US$1.65 million compared to US$4.4 million in the SAR.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:




                                                    - 13 -

The overall sustainability of project achievements is rated likely. Regarding the land allocation component,
it is likely that the beneficiaries will continue to farm the land. They have a long experience with irrigated
agriculture as share croppers and the BAS shows their commitment to farming in areas where few
alternative employment opportunities are available. Sustainability of groundwater resources for agriculture
has been assessed through hydro-geological surveys, and the Wadi Hadramout NWRA Branch is
monitoring groundwater resources with equipment purchased by the project. The MAI has handed over the
large-scale spate irrigation infrastructure to the local Agricultural Offices, which will undertake
maintenance with heavy machinery procured under the Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project. For the
off-farm income generation component, those who have been trained and are now employed have
demonstrated their ability to effectively utilize their skills. However, if the economic situation deteriorates,
this could undermine their continued employment prospects.

Sustainability of benefits for the community development component depends upon effective O&M of
services, which in turn relies upon adequate initial assessment of demand for these services and appropriate
institutional arrangements for O&M. Accordingly, infrastructure and related services (schools, health
centers, roads, water supply etc.) were selected with the participation and demand of relevant stakeholders
(user groups, local authorities and local branches of line ministries). O&M agreements were signed
between the relevant line ministries (Health, Education, etc.), the local council, communities and the project
prior to sub-project start-up. Roads are a top priority for local councils. The local councils identified them
initially and take care of the O&M in collaboration with the Ministry of Public Works and Urban Planning.
Water supply systems to be managed by communities have been handed over to village water committees
(which were established by the project if no water committee previously existed). The BAS found that
beneficiaries regarded water as a high priority and were willing to pay for O&M and were doing so in most
cases. However, in a few instances inefficient water committees were hampering effective O&M collection.
Sustainability could be enhanced by the provision of water committee training to promote their adequate
functioning.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Description and assessment of transition arrangements

The project's outputs are now managed either by line ministries (schools, health centers), local authorities
(electricity, rural roads, erosion control works) or user groups (water supply systems).            Hand-over
agreements with community institutions to ensure smooth transition arrangements to regular operations
were prepared for water supply sub-projects and formal agreements were reached with line ministries over
other sub-projects in education, health, and agriculture/irrigation. Arrangements for cost recovery from
those who received land remain to be finalized.

Recommended Follow-up by the Bank

The Bank's follow-up of the achievements of the project could be organized by sector and combined with
the follow-up of other projects which have implemented similar activities in the southern governorates (the
social fund, education, public works, health, and agriculture projects).         Follow-up could explore the
provision of training as needed for community committees under the auspices of these other projects as well
as ensure that the cost recovery system is put in place for those who received land.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:




                                                       - 14 -

Bank performance in preparing the project is assessed as marginally unsatisfactory. The Bank responded
quickly to GOY's request and mobilized considerable effort and resources for project preparation over two
years. Special emphasis was given to the social assessment of the initial target group: landless poor
farmers. However, risks were not adequately assessed and design was unrealistic, in particular for the land
component, and some aspects of design were overly complex (the community development component).


7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance during implementation is assessed as marginally unsatisfactory, in line with QAG's
quality of supervision evaluation in November 2001 which resulted in a rating of 3 (marginal). IDA had
responsibility for supervision.     IFAD fielded a mid-term review mission and cooperated concerning
proposed modifications and reallocations. IDA supervision management was carried out from the World
Bank office in Yemen, which facilitated frequent interaction with project management and GOY as well as
field visits between formal supervision missions. The flexibility of the Borrower, IDA and IFAD in
reallocating funds and introducing new activities enabled the achievement of appreciable increases in
welfare for project beneficiaries. However, the problems of the land allocation and development component
could have been addressed more rapidly and the project modified sooner. Considering the changes in this
as well as the community development component, the project could have been formally restructured, with
new development objectives and targets created. More sustained supervision could have been provided to
issues related to community training, follow-up of participants in the skills training programs, and PMU
M&E/reporting systems.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is considered unsatisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in preparation is assessed as marginally unsatisfactory. The GOY initiated
project preparation in 1994 by requesting World Bank support to mitigate the poverty impact of reversing
the previous land nationalization policy in the southern governorates. Project preparation was carried out
by government officials at central and local levels supported by international consultants. There was full
Borrower ownership of the project. However, the GOY could have provided more information about the
politically sensitive context of land allocation; this might have resulted in a more accurate assessment of
risks, leading to a more realistic design.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The GOY's implementation performance is assessed as unsatisfactory. In spite of initial strong political
support at Prime Minister level to address private claims on public land allocated to the project, line
ministries and Local Authorities were reluctant to systematically take claimants to the courts of law.
However, the successful completion of the four remaining sites was possible because of the strong
involvement of a new Deputy Governor in Wadi Hadramout, which indicates that more sites could have
been kept in the project if such support had been available earlier. Most legal covenants were complied
with, except for the crucial covenant stipulating that land allocation through free-hold titles should precede
any development work on the sites. In addition, there were delays in the provision of counterpart funding.

7.6 Implementing Agency:




                                                    - 15 -

The Implementing Agency's performance is assessed as unsatisfactory. The dedication of PMU staff and
sensitivity to delicate political and social issues contributed to project achievements in remote, isolated and
tribal communities. Project staff developed good working relations with local authorities. Nonetheless,
there were shortcomings in the M&E and reporting systems as well as insufficient follow-up for trainees
and community institutions.        Furthermore, the PMU could have acted more quickly concerning the
problems of the land allocation component.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower's overall performance is rated as unsatisfactory because of the poor performance in
addressing land tenure issues for the most important component of the project.


8. Lessons Learned

§ Combining high risk with high complexity compounds overall project risk levels. In a high risk
    environment such as that of post-conflict Yemen in mid-1990's, a simple design would have been more
    feasible. When there is complexity to be managed, project components must be well tested and
    supported by sound sectoral strategies. In this case, land allocation and community planning processes
    could have been piloted first, instead of being introduced for the first time as full project components.
    Land allocation is a particularly difficult activity, particularly in a post-conflict context, and should not
    be attempted unless there is a clear land tenure context in the country. Otherwise, if attempted, it
    should be carefully piloted first to adequately assess feasibility. Triggers can be put in place to alert
    the Borrower and the Bank to assess the need to modify or cancel the activity. New, difficult issues
    such as credit and small business development/employment generation would be better managed by
    specialized projects.
§ The design for achieving intended project results should not be overly dependent upon unpredictable
    inputs from other projects or agencies. It had been anticipated that the SFD would provide credit, but
    the SFD was not able to do so. Key activities under the second component (Off-Farm Income) were
    expecting to maximize the income generation of beneficiaries through the provision of credit which did
    not materialize.
§ Demand-driven, community-based approaches need to be designed in ways that are as streamlined and
    realistic as possible, taking into account community time constraints.             While community-based
    approaches can be very effective, overly lengthy community planning processes discourage
    communities as well as implementing agencies and may undermine an entire activity or component.

During project implementation:

§ Supervision should pay close attention to implementation performance and act quickly to modify the
    project if implementation is lagging due to poor design or an overly difficult political context.
    Significant time was lost with this project as unrealistic hopes persisted concerning the land allocation
    component. In addition, flexibility of project implementation is especially important in complex, high
    risk cases. Many of the achievements of this project (for spate irrigation and for the community
    development component) were enabled by the willingness of the Borrower as well as the Bank and
    IFAD to be flexible in the redesign of activities and the reallocation of funds.
§ When major modifications have taken place (components drastically reduced and/or increased, major
    new activities added), formal restructuring should be seriously considered and the PDO modified, to
    reflect the new project realities; at the very least, indicators and targets should be revised/added, so
    that the modified or new activities can be properly monitored and evaluated.
§ Whiletheprojecthadtargetsconcerningprojectbenefitsforwomenandcertainoutputswereachieved,



                                                      - 16 -

     more specific strategies and focused attention on reaching this target group could have increased the
     level of outcomes attained. Given the complexity and sensitivities of this issue, it is advisable to have
     key project staff assigned core responsibility for designing a strategy and providing intense guidance
     during implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
No comments received from the Borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Procurement: The high level of managerial autonomy of the governorate-based PIUs, combined with
insufficient monitoring by the PMU and a high prior review threshold (US$1 million), led to some
procurement problems at the beginning of the project.             These were subsequently addressed by a
centralization of procurement decisions at the PMU and a lower prior review threshold. The QAG quality
of supervision evaluation of 2001 reported that there had been insufficient pro-active procurement
supervision. In later years, procurement staff were regularly part of supervision missions. Prior reviews
and post reviews were conducted as appropriate. Form 384 was kept up-to-date. There were some delays
with the processing of contracts due to the time it took for the MAI's Procurement Committee to undertake
its reviews, even though IDA had provided a no-objection in a majority of cases. Finally, this project was
not covered by the 2004 Independent Procurement Review.

Safeguards: The project was classified as Category B. The project did not trigger OP 4.30 on involuntary
resettlement (which is now OP/BP 4.12). The QAG Quality of Supervision Evaluation of November 2001
rated environmental aspects as unsatisfactory and noted there had been no review of the Environmental
Management Plan. QAG also noted that environmental screening of community sub-projects had been
overlooked. Following the QAG report, local consultants were hired to carry out ex-post analysis on old
sub-projects and screening of new sub-projects. Monitoring of groundwater abstraction is now carried out
by the NWRA Branch in Wadi Hadramout, which has been equipped by the project.

Final audits: The audit report covering the period through December 31, 2005 has been prepared. One
category of the project was extended until April 30, 2006, to allow key PMU staff to process final
payments to contractors and close the project's account. Accordingly, an audit for the period from January
1, 2005 to April 30, 2006 is due by September 30, 2006.




                                                      - 17 -

 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                     End of Project Targets as           Achievement Estimates at Completion
                                          Projected in SAR
SAR Overall Targets                 Incomes raised for 8,750      5,800 individuals
                                    poor, rural individuals and   (about 38,000 people).
                                    their families (about
                                    50-60,000 people).

                                    Welfare increased for about   Welfare increased for about 500,000 people through
                                    150,000 people with multiple single interventions in about 250 communities.
                                    community dev. interventions
                                    in 40 communities.




SAR Project Development
Objectives
Sustainably raise the income of very
poor people in four southern
governorates (largely those affected
by changes in land tenure) to above
the poverty level.

                                    1,950 families receiving land 236 families
                                    & annual income of above
                                    $2,600 by end of project.     Annual income range: $1,200 - $4,240

                                    500 trained as paravets, 400 413 trained
                                    attain annual income of
                                    above $1,000.
                                                                  $269 (estimated av. annual income of male paravets).




                                                      - 18 -

                                   Projected in SAR             Actual Latest Estimate
                                   End of Project
                                    280 families take up fishing 112 trained
                                    & acquire annual income      Average income: $1,360
                                    above $3,000.
Families benefiting from improved                                3,400 families
spate irrigation (added activity)
Reinforce community cohesion and 40 communities set up          More than 40 (precise no. not available).
raise the welfare level in          community institutions.     No regular meetings (although 11 out of 35 water
communities in the southern         Regular meetings of         committees hold occasional meetings).
governorates that have a very high  institutions.
concentration of poor people

                                    Multiple community          Single projects in
                                    development projects in 25 about 250
                                    communities.                communities.

Test innovations regarding the      25 communities confirm      N/A
involvement of beneficiaries in     selection of beneficiaries.
planning and implementation
                                    40 communities agree on      3
                                    community development
                                    plans.

                                    40 communities participate   0
                                    in annual M&E.

Test innovations regarding a       Project implemented on       Project timeframe extended by 2 yrs.
business approach to project       schedule & within budget.    w/restructuring, spent approx. 73% of planned budget.
management

                                   Overhead: direct benefit     Overhead 6.4%.
                                   ratio of $1:$9 or better.




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



                                                              Appraisal        Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                Project Cost by Component                     Estimate            Estimate            Appraisal
                                                              US$ million       US$ million
 Land Allocation and Development                                      24.85                 3.34            13.4%
Rehabilitation of SURDUD Farm                                              0                0.45
Spate Irrigation                                                           0                4.87
 Sub-total Land-Based Development                                      24.85                8.66
Off-Farm Activities                                                     5.02                1.92            38.2%
Community Development                                                   6.83               19.56           286.4%
Sector Study and Project Preparation                                    0.98                1.46           149.0%
PMU                                                                     2.74                1.98            72.3%


                     Total Baseline Cost                        40.42                                       69.5%
 Contingencies                                                  5.41
                               Total Project Cost               45.83                       33.58
                       Total Financing Required                 45.83




Project Financing by Component

         Component                           Appraisal Estimates                             Revised

                                IDA     IFAD     Beneficiaries GOY      Total IDA    IFAD  Beneficiaries GOY    Total

1. Land Development              20.6                4.0        3.4     28.0   4.5             1.7       2.3     8.5

2. SURDUD Farm                                                           0.0   0.5                               0.5

3. Spate Irrigation                                                      0.0   5.0                       0.3     5.3

Sub-total Land-Based             20.6    0.0         4.0        3.4     28.0   10.0   0.0      1.7       2.5     14.2
Development

4. Off-farm Income                       5.4                    0.2      5.6          2.6                0.1     2.7

5.Community Development                  5.9         1.4        0.8      8.1   7.3    8.7      1.4       0.9     18.3



6..Project Preparation.          1.0                                     1.0   1.8                               1.8

7. PMU                           3.1                                     3.1   1.6                               1.6

             Total               24.7    11.3        5.4        4.4     45.8   20.7   11.3     3.1       3.5     38.6




                                                              - 20 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB                 2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                            Other
1. Works                       14.11          0.44           0.00            0.00         14.55
                              (14.11)         (0.44)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (14.55)
2. Goods                        3.45          0.99           0.21            0.00         4.65
                               (3.33)         (0.60)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.93)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00           8.42            0.00         8.42
                               (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.60)           (0.00)      (2.60)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           4.31            0.00         4.31
Operating and Recurrent        (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.21)           (0.00)      (1.21)
Costs
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           9.50            0.00         9.50
Farm Establishment and         (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.38)           (0.00)      (1.38)
Development Fund
6. Miscellaneous                1.02          0.00           0.00            0.00         1.02
Sector Study and Project       (1.02)         (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.02)
Preparation
   Total                       18.58          1.43          22.44            0.00         42.45
                              (18.46)         (1.04)        (5.19)           (0.00)      (24.69)




                                           - 21 -

2

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                1.12               7.03              0.58             0.00              8.73
                                       (0.04)             (5.27)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (5.42)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.28              0.28
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.21)           (0.21)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.43             0.57              2.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.26)            (0.33)           (1.58)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
Operating and Recurrent                (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
Costs
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
Farm Establishment and                 (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
Development Fund
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
Sector Study and Project               (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
Preparation
   Total                                1.12               7.03              2.02             0.85             11.01
                                       (0.04)             (5.27)            (1.36)            (0.53)           (7.21)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Cost Benefit Analysis

A cost/benefit analysis has been carried out for the land development, livestock, and fisheries, components
using assumptions similar to the one used for the SAR (period of analysis: 20 years for the land
development and fisheries components, opportunity cost of capital:10 percent). However, for the livestock
component the period of the analysis is reduced to 10 years to take into account the difficult working
conditions of the paravets, observed by the BAS. Cropping patterns for the land development component
are based on the findings of the BAS and are different of the cropping patterns expected in the SAR.

In addition, because of their share of project cost, large spate irrigation (period of analysis: 20 years) and
vocational and skill training (period of analysis: 10 years) components have been also included in the
analysis. As a result cost-benefit analysis is applied for about 30 percent of project cost.

The overall ERR of the project is estimated at 19 percent with a NPV of YR 836 million. Although an
ERR weighted average of 63 percent was expected in the SAR, the overall ERR of 19 percent can be seen
as a positive result given the complexity of the project and the difficult post-conflict environment of the
project. Since the SAR did not include a consolidated analysis, comparison has been done at component
level and is summarized in the following table.

 Component                 Percentage of            NPV (US$ 1000)                        ERR (%)
                           project cost

                                           Latest Estimate   SAR             Latest Estimate   SAR

                                           YR million        US$ 1000

                                           (Constant)

 Land Allocation and       9                   115                200             12                14
 Development (Hadramout)

 Sweiry State Farm                             203                200             29                24

 Spate Irrigation          14                  -213               n/a             6.3               n/a

 Livestock                 2                   12                 288             13                20

 Fisheries                 1                   142               1,288            65                180

 Vocational Training       3                   586                n/a             100               n/a

 Total                     29                  836                n/a             18.6

 Total with share of PMU   30
 cost




The poor performance of the spate irrigation component and the marginal performance of the land
development component are compensated by the good performance of the off-farm income generation
component. This validates the poverty alleviation strategy supported by the project combining land based



                                                      - 23 -

and off-farm income generation.

Land Allocation and Development Component

Although they apply to a much smaller area, the ERR of the land development component are close to
SAR expectations (12 % against 14 % for new sites and 29 % against 24 % for the rehabilitated site)..

Assumptions. The economic analysis was carried out in Yemeni Rials in 2005 price, with current prices
deflated to 2005 prices using the Consumer Price Index (CPI) as a proxy for the GDP deflator. Labor was
shadow priced at 50 percent to reflect to high unemployment rate of the target population. The market
foreign exchange rate is expected to reflect the equilibrium exchange rate, therefore no shadow pricing for
foreign cost was applied. Shadow prices for agricultural inputs and outputs were based on the World
Bank's Agricultural Sector Review and the FAO Economic Incentives and Comparative Advantages for
Strategic Crops, A Policy Note on Yemen. A coefficient of variation of 1.3 is applied to the pumping cost
of water (YR5/m3) to reflect the remaining subsidies on diesel. The analysis has been carried out for each
site, using cropping patterns based on the Beneficiaries Assessment Study.

Costs. The cost of the land development component include: (i) direct investment costs: land demarcation,
land leveling (expect for Sweiry state farm), irrigation network, borehole, pump and diesel generator
(including replacement), designs, and work supervision; (ii) 50 percent of land surveying and demarcation;
(iii) 50 percent of the overhead cost of the component (international and local consultants, vehicles, office
equipment and furniture, operating cost of the technical team); (iv) the cost of cancelled sites (surveying,
boreholes); and (v) portion of the PMU costs based on the percentage of component cost in total project
costs.

Farming cost include land preparation, seeds, pesticides, manure and fertilizers, labor for weeding,
winnowing, harvesting and irrigation costs. Labor costs include hired and family labor. The without
project situation assumes that family labor would be hired on other farms, therefore, the benefits of the
without project situation are already incorporated in the with-project cost scenario.

Benefits. The benefits from the land development component are the incremental agricultural production on
the four sites, based on the findings of the Beneficiaries Assessment Study and data collected by MAI
Branch Office in Wadi Hadramout. Cropping pattern and cropping intensity for each scheme, are based on
the observations of the Beneficiaries Assessment Study (2005). The cropping pattern is expected to remain
the same over the duration of the project. Cropping intensity is increased progressively to reach 100
percent.




                                                    - 24 -

NPV/ERR

The results of the NPV/ERR analysis are detailed for each site in the following table :

  Land Development                               NPV                              ERR (%)

  Site                            Latest Estimate    SAR            Latest Estimate    SAR

                                  YR million         US$ 1000

                                  (Constant)

  Heinen                               -219                 n/a          -2.3             n/a

  Barwaj                               273                  n/a          21               n/a

  Ba-Ateer                             116                  n/a          25               n/a

  Sub-Total New Sites                  115                 200           12                14

  Sweiry Farm                          203                 200           29                24

  Total Land Development a)            299                  n/a          15               n/a




a) Including cost of cancelled sites and component overhead.




The negative result of the Heinen scheme is explained by high investment cost on a scheme which was
considered as a pilot scheme and low crop yields from very sandy soils. Better performance on other
schemes is explained by lower investments cost resulting from a simplification of the irrigation network
design and better yields.

Spate Irrigation

Analysis for spate irrigation has been carried out separately for the new scheme (Amsalab Nuqub) and for
the rehabilitated schemes (Jarban, Marboon, Zhawan, Mitna, Batais, and Fuad).

Amsalab/Nuqub Scheme

The analysis for Amsalab Nuqub follows the model used for the land development sites.

Costs. The cost of the component includes: (i) direct investment cost (civil works, design and work
supervision); (ii) 50 percent of the overhead cost of the component (international and local consultants,
vehicles, office equipment and furniture, operating cost of the technical team); (iii) the cost of cancelled
schemes (studies); and (iv) portion of the PMU costs based on the percentage of component cost in total
project costs. O&M cost (operation of structural maintenance) have been estimated at 1.5 % of investment
cost ($14/ha/year for Amsalb Nuqub, and $11/ha/year for the other schemes).




                                                            - 25 -

Benefits.

Spate irrigation structures are expected to have both productive and environment impact. They increase
agricultural production by expanding the area under spate irrigation and improving the quality of spate
irrigation (timely diversion of adequate quantity of water from the wadi bed) and supplemental irrigation
from shallow aquifers. They also contribute to aquifer recharge upstream and downstream of the structure,
and flood control downstream of the structure. The selected cropping pattern for Amsalab Nuqub include a
high value crop which can receive supplemental irrigation from shallow wells made possible by water
recharge from the spate structure. The cropping intensity is limited to 80 % of the irrigable area.

The benefits of the rehabilitated schemes are based on the average farm benefit of Amsalab Nuqub. With
Project, farm income on rehabilitated schemes are expected to increase by 2 percent per year for 5 years.
Without rehabilitation the average farm benefit is expected to decrease by 2 percent/year for 5 years.

The results of the detailed analysis are shown in the following table:

Sub-Component                           % of Project Cost           NPV (YR million)        ERR

Amsalab-Nuqub New Scheme                       3                           -53              6

Rehabilitated Schemes                          9                           -18              9.5

Total Spate Irrigation (a)                   14 (a)                     -209 (a)          6.3 (a)

a) Including total cost of cancelled schemes and overhead of the component.

The marginal return of the spate irrigation component is not surprising considering the remoteness of the
schemes and the size of the structures made necessary by the damage caused by recurrent floods in the
wadis. Nevertheless, the component is justified by externalities which have yet to be quantified: land
reclamation and protection, water recharge and flood protection. For the last 3000 years, spate irrigation
has made population settlements possible and sustainable in Shabwa's wadis, where most of the population
of the governorate is concentrated.

Livestock Component

Although the ERR for this component (13 %) is lower than SAR expectations (20 %), it shows the
economic profitability of an activity highly relevant in poor rural areas with few other economic
opportunities.

The methodology used is similar to the one used in the SAR.

Cost. Cost includes the cost of training (including consultants) of 444 persons spread over 5 years, as well
as a portion of O&M cost.

Benefit. According to the findings of the BAS, a practicing paravet generates an average income of
YR53,536 per year, working part-time, in addition of an average income of YR145,000 before training.
The incremental value of livestock resulting from the intervention of 373 practicing paravets is valued at 2
times the income of the paravet.




                                                             - 26 -

Fisheries Component

Although the ERR for this component (65 %) is less than half SAR expectations (180 %), it shows the high
economic profitability of artisanal fisheries.

Cost. The cost includes training and consultants' cost for 157 young fishermen as well as a portion of PMU
cost.

Benefits. According to the BAS, income after training is YR262,500 per year against YR86,167, before
training, and 82 percent of the trainees are actually employed in fisheries.

Vocational and Skills Training Component

With an ERR of 100 percent this component is highly profitable and constitutes a good use of public money
to promote off-farm employment.

Cost. The cost includes training and consultants' cost for 1,933 youths, startup investment estimated at an
average of YR100,000 per business for the 23% of trainees who established their own business, as well as
a portion of PMU cost.

Benefits. According to the BAS, income after training is YR314,188 per year for self employed and
business owners (29 %), YR 244,330 for permanent jobs (43%) and part time jobs (19%), YR84,000 for
trainees employed outside the sector of training. The average income has been calculated for 95 percent
employed after training, and 90 percent of the trainees are expected to be employed. Average income
before training is YR76,600.

Sensitivity Analysis

The economic returns are sensitive to reduction in benefits, as shown in the following table.

                   Base Case                          Percentage Reduction of Benefits

                                          -10 %             -20 %           -25%            -30%

 ERR                    18.6               15.1             11.7             10              8.3

 NPV                     836               502               168            0.25             -167




The switching value for a 10 percent opportunity cost of capital is 25 percent of reduction in benefits. This
could come from a change in cropping pattern, lower yields, higher input prices and lower income from
off-farm income generation activities.




                                                      - 27 -

Returns are less sensitive to increase in operation and maintenance cost, as shown by the following table.

                          Base Case                                    Percentage Increase of O&M

                                                     +20 %                  +30 %               +50%         +100%

 ERR                      18.6                          18                    17.7               17.2          15.8

 NPV                      836                          790                    767                720           604



The switching value for a 10 percent opportunity cost of capital is 460% increase in operating and
maintenance costs.

Cost ­Effectiveness Analysis

A cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out for the subproject under the community development fund (60
percent of project cost). Comparable results are within SAR expectations and achievements of other
similar projects active in the project area (SFD, PWP).

                                                   Average cost per Beneficiary    Minimum Labor Content (%)  Community contribution
                                                              (US$)                                                   (%)

       Type of         Beneficiaries      % of    Latest Estimate      SAR        Latest Estimate    SAR       Latest       SAR
     community                           project                                                              Estimate
       projects                           cost                         (max)

 Rural water                                                                                                                10-20
 supply &sewage             163,000           9.7       21              25              n/a           n/a       4.4


 Health                      32,300           1.4       11              25              n/a           30        8.1         5-10

 Education
 (investment cost
 per student)                77,000           9.2     39 a)             300             n/a           30         9          25-75


 Small Spate
 Irrigation                  40,400           3.7       37              n/a             n/a           n/a       6.1          n/a

 Electricity                   5100           0.8       64              n/a             n/a           n/a        0           n/a

 Other                       13,900           2.9       37                              n/a                      2           n/a

 Total                      331,700          27.7




a) average cost per beneficiary population.




                                                                    - 28 -

Rural Roads

The following table shows the unit cost by beneficiary for the roads constructed by the project. These unit
costs are well within the accepted norms in Yemen for roads built in very rough terrain. Most of the roads
will provide access to remote villages located in the bottom of deep valleys (wadis).

                                           Population  Construction Cost/ km    Cost/
Road Name                      Length (km) Served      Cost ($)     $/km        person     Type
Alrawdhah - Salmoon                     8.0       5,000    103,200        12,900        21 Earth
Al Magehafah/ Al Fewsh (a)              8.3     13,600     605,936        73,004        45 Asphalt
Aqabet Jujeh & Al Khalif                5.3     10,600     601,042      113,404         57 Asphalt
Al Kalih                                3.7       3,500      61,095       16,512        17 Earth
Shab Al Arab/ Al Saeed                 1.25       8,700    127,327      101,862         15 Stone
Ankadon/ Al Hasi                       9.25       4,400    239,006        25,838        54 Stone
Aqabet Yabooth                            3       8,400    236,810        78,937        28 Stone
Aqabet Al Fuckeck & Larmmey               9       5,130    441,673        49,075        86 Stone
Aqabet Al Waharah                         3         430    109,303        36,434       254 Stone
Aqabet Kahout & Al Khattemmah          11.4       4,700    449,814        39,457        96 Stone
Aqabet Khalif Bin Authman                 5       4,700      76,200       15,240        16 Earth
Al Hanekah / Al Ser                      12       1,750    467,619        38,968       267 Stone
Aqabet Al Nammerah                      8.5       9,800    224,334        26,392        23 Stone
Jabal Al Aur/ Kabad                     2.5       5,000    144,859        57,944        29 Stone
Jabal Thammer                             2     15,000     140,087        70,044         9 Stone
Al Hujilah (Wadi Heinen)                  9       4,500      99,888       11,099        22 Earth
Qasem (Wadi Hussein)                    2.7       6,000      55,187       20,440         9 Earth
Total                                103.9     111,210   4,183,380        40,264        38
Percent of Total Cost                                        12.2 %
(a) Includes improvement cost
financed by IFAD

Quantitative information to carry out a cost-benefit analysis for rural roads is either missing or unreliable.
The beneficiary assessment study shows that rural roads are among the top priorities of isolated villages
because of their impact of the cost of commodities (including drinking water transported by truck), better
access to market and social services (secondary schools, hospitals and maternities).

Financial Analysis

The financial rates of return to the project are in the range 3 - 100 percent which is below SAR
expectations.

Financial rate of returns (FRR) have been estimated for the land development, livestock and fisheries
components using a methodology similar to the one used for the SAR; as well as for the spate irrigation and
the vocational and skills training components.

Financial rates of return vary from 3 percent for the land development component to 100 percent for the
vocational and skills training component. The low FRR for the spate irrigation schemes (about 5% results
from high investment cost. FRRs for land development vary from -5 percent (Heinen site) to 27 percent
(Sweiry site). However, income generated for the beneficiaries (including financing of O&M cost) after
five years of operation, are significant as shown by the table below.

    Land Development Component                  Heinen            Sweiry        Barwaj    Ba-Ateer
Average Farm Income/year (YR)                  308,389         1,460,919        885,639  1,446,943
Cost Recovery of Investment (YR)                  4,452        4,452             4,452        4,452
Net Income (YR)                                303,937         1,456,467        881,187  1,442,491




                                                          - 29 -

Farm income is highly sensitive to cropping patterns and yields. Heinen site's results are explained by
lower yields and cropping pattern with reduced allocation of alfalfa. This illustrates the importance of
agricultural service to reach optimal return from the land and secure the contribution of beneficiaries to the
cost of equipment stipulated in the land titles, YR 66,780 in installments over 15 years.

Off- Farm Income Generation Component

The 73 percent FRR for the off-farm generation component (23 percent for livestock, 72 percent for
fisheries, 100 percent for vocational and skills training), validates the project design of combining
land-based poverty alleviation components (land development and spate irrigation) with off-farm income
generation. Annual income generated for working paravets (YR198,536) and fishermen (YR262,500) and
vocational and skill training working graduate (see table below), are well above the poverty line for Yemen
(YR 38,580)

Average income after training               YR           Percentage of
                                                         employed
Self employed business owners         314,188 YER              29%
Permanent job                         244,330 YER              43%
Half time employment                  122,165 YER               4%
Employed outside fisheries             84,000 YER              19%
Average                               217,023 YER



Fiscal Impact.

In addition to counterpart funding of investment cost and debt service, the GOY will have to finance O&M
cost for large spate irrigation structures, rural roads, schools and health centers. O&M cost of land
development sites shall be covered by the beneficiaries and are already included in the farm budgets. O&M
cost of water supply schemes are supported by Water User Associations.

Fiscal impact from O& M of large spate irrigation, rural roads, schools and health center are estimated to
amount about YR 87,249,000 per year. Estimates are based on the following assumptions: 1.5 percent of
investment for large spate irrigation; $3000/km/year for earth and stone roads, and $5000/km of asphalted
road, 3 percent of investment cost for schools and health centers.




                                                    - 30 -

Component                                                   Yearly Fiscal Impact (YR 1000)

Large Spate Irrigation Structures                                             3,785

Rural Roads                                                                   65,747

Schools                                                                       17,717

Health Centers                                                                2,158

Total                                                               87,249 ( about US450,000)

Adequate funding of O&M through local budgets would be critical to ensure the sustainability of the
benefits of the infrastructures. The GOY has expressed its commitment in a letter dated May 16, 2006.




                                                 - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/13/1995                1    OPERATIONS OFFICER,
                                             SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST, SOCIOLOGIST,
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/13/1997                1    OPERATIONS OFFICER,
                                             RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST, PRIVATE
                                             SECTOR DEVT.
                                             SPECIALIST, IRRIGATION
                                             ENGINEER, LAWYER,
                                             SOCIOLOGIST


 Supervision

              06/29/1998                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              12/03/1998                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             IRRIGATION/ENGINEERING
                                             (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL/FINANCE (1)
              06/15/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             COMMUNITY DEV. SPEC. (1);
                                             ENG./HYDROGEOLOGY (1)
              10/02/1999                2    TTL (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1)         S               S
              04/16/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              06/20/2001                2    TTL (1); RURAL DEV.              U               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/13/2001                2    LEAD AGRIC. ECONOMIST            U               S
                                             (1); SR. OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              02/21/2002                7    TEAM LEADER (1); SR              U               S
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALI (1); SR
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SR.OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); CONSULTANT
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1)
              02/02/2003                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             LAED AGRI. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROC. SPECIALIST (1)



                                              - 32 -

               06/15/2003              4   SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER              S    S
                                           (1); RURAL DEVT.
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1); LEAD AG.
                                           ECONOMIST (1)
               12/15/2003              5   TTL (1); CO. MANAGER (1);           S    S
                                           IRRIGATION ENG. CONSUL
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           AGRONOMIST (1)
               06/15/2004              5   Mission leader (TTL) (1);           S    S
                                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                                           Sociologist (1); Engineer,
                                           Consultant (1); Financial
                                           Management S (1)
               12/15/2004              7   MISSION LEADER (1); M&E             S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                           DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FM SPECIALIST (2);
                                           IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Preparation




GOY Decrees

- GOY Decree No 65, 1991

- Ministerial Decree No 71 of 1993

- Cabinet Decision 317 of 1996

- Council of Ministers Decrees No 318, 319, 320, of 1996

- Prime Minister Order No 52 of 1996




Preparation Studies

- Studies April-May 1994

- Studies December 1994- February 1995

- Agriculture Ministry Directive of April 1995

- Participatory Needs Assessment, April 1995

- Report of Social Team, Jeffrey Meissner, August 1995




Working Papers, (Draft )Agrisystems, October 1996

Volume 1. Preparation Main Report

Volume 2. Legal Aspects of Land Compensation

Volume 3: Social Analysis and Issues

Volume 5: Hydrogeology and Water Resources

Volume 6: Land Suitability and Capability Assessment

Volume 7: Land Development and Irrigation




                                                 - 36 -

Volume 8: Agriculture and Livestock Development

Volume 9: Off-farm Income Generating Activities

Volume 10: Community and Other Development Investment

Volume 11: Project Management and Institutions

Volume 12: Participatory Approach and Mechanisms

Volume 13: Credit

Volume 15: Project Cost Tables

Volume 16: Economic and Financial Analysis

Volume 18: Maps




World Bank Working Papers (No date)

Volume 1: Working Papers No 1 to 8A




Working Paper No. 1:   Methodology of Defining and Selecting the Target Group for Land Allocation and
Development

Working Paper No. 2:   Land Reform and Land Tenure

Working Paper No. 3:   Land Survey, Demarcation and Development

Working Paper No. 4:   Water Users Association- Agriculture Group (AG) or Irrigation Group (IG)

Working Paper No. 5:   Water Management Plans, Groundwater Monitoring and Studies

Working Paper No. 6:   Technical Advice to Farmers

Working Paper No. 6A: Agricultural Development

Working Paper No. 6B: Livestock

Working Paper No. 6C: Livestock Projects

Working Paper No. 7:   Poverty Alleviation Strategy Followed by the Project

Working Paper No. 7A: Participatory Approach and Mechanisms



                                                 - 37 -

Working Paper No. 7B: Women's Economic Activities in the Project Area

Working Paper No. 7C: Off-farm Income Generation

Working Paper No. 7D: Fisheries

Working Paper No. 8:  Community Development

Working Paper No. 8A: Environment Protection Program




Volume II: Working Papers No. 9 to 23

      Working Paper No. 9:            Consideration for a Pilot Activity in a Non-State Land

      Working Paper No. 10:           Project Staffing and Terms of Reference

      Working Paper No. 11:           Cabinet Decision No 317 (1996) for the Rural Development
      Project in Southern Governorates

      Working Paper No. 18:           Economic and Financial Analysis

      Working Paper No. 18A:          Cropping Patterns and Farm Budgets

      Working Paper No. 19:           Project Cost and Financing

      Working Paper No. 23:           Contractual Arrangements for Carrying Out the Project




World Bank Background Papers




Volume 1 No. 1 to 4

      Background Paper No. 1:         Profile of Tenants Interviewed by the Social Team (May June
                                      1995)

      Background Paper No. 2:         Report of the Technical Team ­Draft Report on the Irrigated
                                      Agriculture Potential of Proposed Compensation Lands in Abyan,
                                      Lahej, Shabwa and Hadramawt Governorates, Marsden Jones,
                                      July 1995

      Background Paper No. 3:         Report of the Social Team ­ Final Report of the Preparation
                                      Team Mission, Jeffrey Meissner, November 28/December 18
                                      1995



                                                - 38 -

      Background Paper No. 4:          Report on State Farms ("Derouiche Report" in French and
                                       Arabic, December 1995, 66 pages in French

Volume II No. 5 to 7




      Background Paper No. 5:         Report of the Committee for the Selection of the Beneficiaries of
                                      Project Land Development, April 1997

      Background Paper No. 6:         Groundwater Potential at Selected Areas in Wadi Hadramout,
                                      April 1997




      Background Paper No. 7:         Manual of Procedures, September 1997




-  The Design of a Micro Finance Pilot Program in the Republic of Yemen, Ahmed Abou Yazied (EU
   Consultant), Judith Brendsma, (World Bank), January 19, 1997

-  Staff Appraisal Report, September 18, 1997

-  Early Implementation Assessment, October 11, 1999




PMU Reports




      - Scheme Irrigation Water Demand in Wadi Hadramout, Baban, 1998

      - Economy of Groundwater Development for Irrigation, R.T. Baban, Yagub Omar ba Yagub,
        November 1998

      - Groundwater potential of selected project sites in Lahj , Abyan, Shabwa and Hadramout
        governorates and proposals for well drilling and testing in these regions, M. Jones, Consultant
        Hydrogeologist, 1998

      - The Southern Governorates Rural Development Project, H. Lackner , 1998, English and Arabic

      - Preliminary Report on Demarcation of Proposed Project sites in Wadi- Hadramout, H. Lackner,
        A.A.bin Aqeel, L.L. Al Ansi, 1998,

      - Annual Report 1998, May 1999




                                                  - 39 -

       - Working Procedures Guidelines for the Participatory Development Coordinators, H. Lackner,
          January 1999.

       - Optimum design of Irrigation Water Distribution Systems, January 1999

       - Design of semi-closed irrigation water distribution systems, February 1999

       - Issues Paper on land ownership and allocation in Wadi Hadramout and other areas, May 1999

       - Issues Paper on State Farms allocated to SGRDP, June 1999

       - Selection of beneficiaries of land developed by SGRDP, Issues Paper , December 1999

       - Revised Manual of Procedures, 1999

       - Social Assessment of the Southern Governorates Rural Development Project, H. Lackner,
          December 1999

       - Annual Report 1999, March 2000

- Project Status- Issues and Proposals, July 1998-October 2000, October 2000

       - Study of Beekeeping and Honey Production Sub-sector in Shabwa Governorate, Small Business
          Training Course (May 5- June 15, 2000), Gamal Mohamed Elsaadi, Anwar Mohamed

       - Project Status Report (July 1998-November 2001), November 27, 2001

       - Workshop on Managing Project Impact, January 30, 2001

       - Land Development Component, Status of Land Beneficiaries in Wadi Hadramout, April 9, 2002

       - Operation and Maintenance Manual for Spate Irrigation, November 2002, (English)

       - Operation and Maintenance Manual for Spate Irrigation, November 2002, (Arabic)

       - Operation and Maintenance Manual Sanitation, Shabwa Office, (Arabic)

       - Operation and Maintenance Manual Rural Water Supply, Shabwa Office, (Arabic)

       - Calculations for Water Charges, Shabwa Office, (Arabic)

       - Concise Status Report - January 2003, January 11, 2003

       - Manual of Procedures, Revised October 2003

       - Progress Report (January- May 2004), May 20, 2004

       - Progress Report (June- November, 2004), Prepared for IDA Supervision Mission November



                                                   - 40 -

          2004, November 20, 2004

        - Project Activities for the Management of the Mesquite Tree (Prosopis , Juliflora) in Wadi
          Hadramout, August 2004

        - Report on the Interventions made by SGRDP in Honey Bee Sector, Dr. Mohammad Sa'eed
          Khanbash, Director, Honey Bee Center, Hadramout University for Sciences and Technology, no
          date

        - Interim Progress Report for the Period December 2004-May 2005 (Prepared for IDA Supervision
          Mission of June 2005), June 2005

        - Progress Report for the Period June-November 2005 (Prepared for IDA Supervision Mission of
          November-December 2005), November 2005




MAI Reports

- Beneficiary Assessment Study, November 2005

- Southern Governorates Rural Development Project- Final report, February 2006.




Other Reports




- Development of the Apiculture in Yemen, A technical report requested by FAO Representative Office,
Sana'a, Yemen, Pr. Dr. Mohammed Saeed
  Khanbash, Professor of Beekeeping Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Aden, December
2001

IFAD Reports

- Project Performance Review and Improvement Report, IFAD, December 2003

- Southern Governorates Rural Development Project, Project Completion Report, December 2005




                                                   - 41 -

Additional Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

                                 BENEFICIARY ASSESSMENT STUDY
Executive Summary

The Southern Governorate Rural Development Project (SGRDP) was jointly financed by IFAD and the
World Bank. The IFAD loan was approved in September 1997 and became effective on July 1, 1998. The
IDA Credit was approved in November 1997 and became effective on June 29, 1998. The project life is six
years and planned to be closed on 30, June 2004. However, the project life was extended by 18 months and
will close on December 31, 2005.

The project was designed to address the problem of the dispossessed farmers who handed over the
agricultural land, they used to farm, to the original land owners. After unification in 1990 the new
government decided to reverse the previous land nationalization policy and passed a decree that returned the
expropriated land to its former owners.

The overall objective of SGRDP is to restore the economic viability of the poor dispossessed and other
poor families in the project area. The primary target group would contain three quarter of the dispossessed
tenants and one quarter of the very poor rural people. A secondary target group for the project is rural
communities where the very poor primary target group live.

Before restructuring, the project comprises three components including land allocation development or
rehabilitation component, off farm income development component and economic and social development
activities. Each component included a number of sub components.

Major problems were encountered during the implementation of the land development component due to
lack of clear title to the land initially identified for development. As a result, the project was restructured
twice mainly affecting IDA funded component of the project. However, another revision to the project
design has affected the implementation of the IFAD funded component, namely to downgrade the
community development approach.

Beneficiary assessment is a widely used approach for listening and consultations. The utility of bringing the
people voice into the development process is manifest in the different stages of the project cycle, including
evaluation, whereby the beneficiaries become key arbiters of the value of an activity intended to support
them. The main factors considered in designing the BA study; included, selecting field researchers and
assistants, understanding the context, setting objectives, sampling frame and preparing interview guide /
checklist.

The composition of the team of researchers is a mix of external expertise and in-house dedicated staff that
combines the familiarity and internalization associated with in-house involvement together with the
technical expertise and credibility, which comes with participation of external expatriates. After the
assembling of the research team an orientation workshop: was convened at Seyiun for the research team
before the commencement of the field work, where the BA approach and methodology were explained by
the team leader.

The members of the research team for this study are familiar with the socio cultural setting and the
institutional environment in the project area and in Yemen. The activities undertaken by the research team
as initial step in designing the BA included, review of all relevant documentations, had discussions with



                                                       - 42 -

key informants and paid site visits to close communities.

Beside the BA objectives stated in the TOR, the following were considered in this study (i) assessing the
nature and degree of beneficiary satisfaction with the sub-projects (ii) determining the increasing rate of
participation (iii) assessing the willingness of the beneficiaries to share the cost of the sub projects (actual
contribution towards the implementation cost of sub-projects) and their responsibility for O&M, (iv)
Ascertaining the beneficiary's appreciation of the institutions serving them or not appreciating their efforts.
.
The sampling procedure adopted for this BA study is purposive random sampling and cluster sampling
based on governorate/district. The sample size for this study was influenced by many factors which
included the scattered beneficiaries in large geographical area; homogeneity among some beneficiaries
groups e.g. women, and the time constraint. The BA techniques adopted for this study included;
conversational interviewing, focus group discussions, and institutional assessment.

About 236 dispossessed and poor farmer families farming 487.4 ha were allotted land titles out of initially
planned and estimated 1950 farm families and 3,900 ha for land allocation and development subcomponent.
That was due to limited availability of suitable and freehold government agricultural lands of good soil
quality & abundant irrigation water and tribal claims. In addition to, the high investment cost for the
development of new land sites. Investment operations envisaged in the development of these lands includes
surveying, demarcation and layout of 20 farm units each of 25 ha for a group of 12 members, levelling,
drilling of 20 deep boreholes equipped with diesel engines and 4-5" pumps and shelter houses and
installation of 20.2 km of 5" PVC pipes irrigation networks.

The data analyzed showed that 97 % of the interviewed beneficiary farmers have indicated that the project
has adhered to the criteria set for land allocation and executed with utmost transparency and 84 % have
expressed their satisfaction with land levelling and improved irrigation system installed. The in depth
interviews revealed that while the incomes of 57 % of the beneficiary farmers before receiving the land
titles were in short of meeting family needs, 78 % of them confirmed an increase in their annual incomes.

The average cropping pattern over the four farms was in the order of 44 %, 26.5 %, 23 %, 7.5 % and 2 %
for wheat, Alfalfa, sorghum, onion and vegetables, respectively. However, variations in cropping intensity
also exist between sites and the cropping intensity is estimated to be 74 %, 42 % and 87 % at Hainen,
Barwaj and Asswairy, respectively due to variation in availability of irrigation water and soils. One
important reason for the low crop intensity in Barwaj farm is attributed to the fact that farmers in Barwaj
farm usually cultivate nearby lands on crop sharing basis with land owners and irrigate these lands from
the Barwaj wells. The reason being, the adjacent lands have more fertile soils.

Although the average cultivated area per well at Hainen is similar to that at Asswairy, yet crop yields are
much lower at Hainen compared to both Asswairy and Barwaj. The production constraint elements such as
poor soils, low level of inputs and inefficient irrigation practices are more prominent at Hainen.
Accordingly, the highest average gross margin for all crops was obtained at Asswairy, followed by Barwaj
and Hainen. The average gross margins per hectare across the three farms are is in the order of YR
444,000, YR 204,000, YR 111,000 and YR 63,000 for alfalfa, wheat, onion and sorghum respectively.
However, the average gross margins per hectare of wheat in the three farms is almost double the gross
margin obtained in a sample of private farms in the Tareem area while the average gross margin for
sorghum in the three farms is 48 % higher than the sample of private farms at Tareem area, which is
adjacent to the three farms. (I.e. Asswairy farm is in Tareem area.)

Achievement in spate irrigation improvement includes cultivation of 3,532 ha benefiting 14,380 farmers in


                                                     - 43 -

project area from construction of 9 spate facilities. Achievements in land protection works include
establishing 175 sites for erosion control and 44 sites for wadi training, which resulted in the protection of
3,153 houses, 64 social public buildings, 193 wells, 9,097 ha of agricultural lands and 18,488 fruit trees
benefiting a total of 57,100 persons.

 The majority of participants in the focus group discussion have unanimously agreed that the construction
of spate improvement works have improved their access to spate water, increased their cultivated lands and
crop yields and ultimately increased their income and improved their standard of living. Similarly large
group of the targeted communities have expressed their satisfaction with land and environmental protection
measures that benefited the whole community and not only few individuals.

Crop development support activities included the completion of training for 774 farmers in fruit trees and
bee keeping in the project area as well as 31 extension agents and 122 trainers. The trainees believe that the
training was useful and valuable however, it could have been more effective if the duration is relatively
longer.

To achieve the off-farm component objectives of poverty alleviation, the project provided about 2,740
individuals, representing 71% of those targeted, with technical support and training in artisan fishing;
livestock health care and husbandry, in addition to other services and production vocations. The total
number of women trained was 965 representing 35% of the total trainees.

The project targeting methodology in terms of beneficiary selection was fare and acceptable since nearly
75% of the trainees were either employed or involved in part-time jobs as unskilled labor. More than 90%
of those interviewed confirmed satisfaction with the training quality and its relevance to the jobs market.

86% of the paravet trainees are operating. In terms of income generation, the majority considered the
service as secondary source and the income generated from it is limited. This was mainly attributed to low
community awareness, competition from veterinarians, and 42% of those interviewed do not have
veterinary tool kits even though medicines were provided as a grant from the project.

Despite the fact that those trained in traditional fishing were not provided with credit, as promised to own
powered boats and fishing gear, 82% of the interviewees at the time of the field survey are employed as
skilled anglers. The average annual income per individual was $ 1,360, which is equivalent to 270% of the
annual average income per individual before the training was executed.

With regard to men training in service and production vocations, 76% of those interviewed are either wage
or self-employed in the fields of training. The average annual income per person is $ 1,414. The survey
results revealed that skills acquired through formal and apprenticeship training have a considerable market
demand.

The SGRDP have implemented some 198 sub-projects comprising 79 water supply schemes, 71 schools,
17 rural road, 16 health units, 5 sewage systems, 5 women centres, and 5 electricity supply schemes. The
number of villages covered with the project services is more than 250 villages in 50 districts of the targeted
project area. The number of population who benefited from the sub-projects is estimated at 372,458
persons.

The beneficiaries acknowledged that, the water supply sub-projects have resulted in more water
consumption with less expenditure on water, saved water collection time for women and as a result more
girls are attending schools. The project intervention in the education sector has resulted in reducing walking


                                                      - 44 -

time for children to school to distant schools and increased enrolment of both girls and boys and reduced
dropout, especially among girls.

The beneficiaries believe that roads construction improved access between villages, reduced travel time and
cost and enhanced establishment of basic social and economic services in the area. Rural roads enhanced
access to rural markets and encouraged agricultural production. The beneficiaries also believe that the
newly constructed or rehabilitated health units increased immunization coverage and improved health care
services especially to women and children. The beneficiaries also confirmed that sewage systems have
improved the general hygiene and environmental status in the villages where this service became available.

The project has constructed one women centre in Wadi Hadramout and two in Abyan. Women interviewed
indicated that the women centres benefited them through raising their awareness and giving them self
esteem and recognition. Furthermore, the presence of the centre has encouraged many participating
members to process local products and this resulted in modest increase in income of participating families.

A training program was conducted for some members of the Local Councils in all the districts in the
project areas in 2002. The members of the Local Councils who attended this training were 385. The
second program was conducted in 2005. The participants in the second program included beside 1,154
local council members, 77 heads of local councils and 462 members of Tender Boards at districts and the
four governorates levels.
.
The members of the Local Councils interviewed ascertained that training has been valuable in improving
their capabilities and skills in the preparation of management, budgetary and financial plans. The members
of the local councils expressed their unhappiness with the functioning of their institution and admitted their
weak role in effectively reaching out and empowering their rural communities.

The activities under the different components of SGRDP are scattered over large geographical area. This
required adequate, qualified and dedicated project staff and adequate means of transportation. However,
despite, the termination of the project technical       adviser's contract, the cancellation of the business
development advisers posts in Wadi Hadramout, Abyan and Lahej, the cancellation of the 3 project
coordinators posts, and availability of only 11 vehicles (i.e. after two vehicles were hijacked) out of 22
stipulated in the project document, the project has achieved almost all its physical targets after
restructuring.




                                                     - 45 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution

                      Southern Governorates Rural Development Project (SGRDP)
                                   Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation

                                                Final Report

                                               February 2006


                                       Final Chapter: Lessons Derived

1. Need for carefulness and objectivity on determining the projects' objectives and components to ensure
    clear objectives and specific components that are easy to be dealt with and implemented with clearly
    specified implementing methodology. Attention is to be paid to careful analysis of predicted risks that
    may emerge during implementation.
2. Project areas are to be selected of a size that may enable the projects' executive departments to
    properly implement and monitor the activities as well to easily trace the projects' social and economic
    impact.
3. Coordination with other institutions concerned with the activities to be selected and implemented
    including the Local Councils to verify their preparedness to contribute in cost of the proposed activities
    and to receive the works after completion and take charge of the operation and maintenance thereof.
4. Involvement of experienced local personnel in carrying out studies of the development projects to avoid
    shortcomings that may result from non-compatibility with local realities and adoption of experiments
    applicable to other countries.
5. Technical aspects should be given more concern in the documents of projects' activities; an
    independent party for revision of studies and technical designs should be appointed prior to bidding
    process to avoid problems likely to emerge during implementation.
6. The Government contribution in the costs of the investment projects should be determined within the
    capacity range of the Government lest unfulfilled commitments should cause projects' failure.
7. Beneficiaries' contribution in the costs of the investment projects should be determined within the range
    endurable by the beneficiaries, cash or in-kind. Such commitments (if in-kind) should be in form of
    quantified and measurable services to avoid the beneficiaries being liable to overexploitation or
    accusation of failure to meet their commitments. Intensive well prepared mobilization and awareness
    campaign are to be organized among the beneficiary communities to help them determine their
    development priorities and to materialize the required participation prior to commencement of projects'
    activities,
8. Enacting the steering committees of the projects financed by credits or assistance, for those committees
    to be fully accountable for any failure in their tasks, however, their tasks and responsibilities should be
    strictly and clearly specified in the documents of the projects.
9. The Ministry of Finance should be committed to provide necessary funds for the operation and
    maintenance of the major structures after elapse of the Project period to protect those structures against
    damages and collapse.
10. Specific outlining of criteria for selecting the personnel for the projects' positions, whether local or
    expatriate, to ensure recruiting most experienced and skillful experts.
11. Necessity of outlining the relation between the projects and the tender committees in their supervising
    ministries as well as specifying the required duration of time for finalizing the procedures related to
    tenders submitted by the projects to their respective ministries to avoid unnecessary delay and need for



                                                     - 46 -

    training of tender committees to familiarize them with regulations and procedures related to the
    financing organizations of the projects.
12. Monitoring and evaluation units in projects and in the concerned ministries should be paid special
    attention for that will have a positive impact on projects' performance.
13. Financiers' supervision missions to projects adopting the same activities should be made into one
    mission that visits all those projects to be able to rectify shortcomings and derive lessons,

14. Training adopted by various projects such as training of farmers, technicians, parveterinarians, male
    and female beneficiaries in careers/skills is not an ultimate objective per se, but a means through which
    projects aim to improve the trainees' knowledge and skills to enable them upgrade their productivity
    and proficiency to offer better services or be qualified to obtain income generating jobs. Therefore,
    there is a need for micro finance activities to be established at a national level to provide loans for such
    trainees on affordable terms.
15. Obvious is the necessity of the formation of democratically elected community committees to take
    charge of the implemented sub-projects such as water supply, roads, and sewerage systems and ensure
    their sustainability, which necessitates training of those committees in operation and maintenance and
    proper management of their sub-projects. In this regard, there are some very successful sub-projects
    that have been steadily working for many years. Managerial committees of such projects could even be
    charged with the training of new committee members of other sub-projects.




                                                     - 47 -

Additional Annex 10. Tables for the Economic Analysis




                                    SEE ATTACHED




                                         - 48 -

- 49 -

- 50 -

- 51 -

- 52 -

- 53 -

- 54 -

- 55 -

- 56 -

- 57 -

- 58 -

- 59 -

- 60 -

