Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2998-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Southern Governorates Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 5, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2998-YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 5, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by agreement dated December 15, 1997 (the IFAD Loan Agreement), the 
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of eight million one hundred fifty 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR8,150,000) (the IFAD Loan) to assist in financing 
Parts B and C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the IFAD Loan 
Agreement;
(C)
the IFAD Loan is to be administered by the Association in accordance with 
the Agreement of May 20, 1978 between IFAD and the Association pursuant to a letter of 
appointment to be entered into between IFAD and the Association; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project's costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time the Association determines,  with respect to any contract to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association determines that the procurement of any 
contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement 
and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Manual of Procedures” means the manual, dated September 1997, specifying 
the managerial, financial, administrative, engineering and environmental policies and 
procedures for the execution of the Project and the eligibility criteria for selection 
of Subprojects (as such term is defined hereinafter) under Part C(2) of the Project; 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
(b)
"MAWR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources of the 
Borrower;
(c)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established by the Borrower for 
implementation of this Project, referred to in Paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;  
(d)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
April 14, 1997 and June 12, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association;  
(e)
“Southern Governorates” means the Governorates of Hadramawt, Shabwa, 
Abyan and Lahej;
Page  3
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"Steering Committee” means the Committee referred to in Paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, established by the Borrower to supervise implementation 
of the Project; and
(h)
“Subproject" means any activity under Part C(2) of the Project for the 
economic development, improvement of the environment or the social infrastructure of 
communities in the Southern Governorates and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
IFAD Loan.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
Page  4
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 2008 and ending August 1, 2037.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 1, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:
(i)
the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three 
consecutive years  the level established annually by 
the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and 
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association 
and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling 
six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MAWR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, environmental, and agricultural practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Page  5
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the IFAD Loan and the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
Page  6
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events  are specified:
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds 
of  the IFAD Loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor; or
(B)
the amount withdrawn and outstanding under the IFAD 
Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring 
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and 
(B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
(b)
the Manual of Procedures shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations of the PMU 
or its ability to carry out the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (a)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related 
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  7
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address: 
Telex:
CENPLAN 
Sana’a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sana’a, Republic of Yemen, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdulkader Bajamal 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kemal Dervis 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the  Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
SCHEDULE WAS DONE IN COLUMN FORMAT
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
Page  8
office rental, office supplies, vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance, 
utilities and communications expenses, travel and supervision costs, local contractual 
staff salaries, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower 's civil service, 
and costs for meetings of the Steering Committee.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts 
not exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 
equivalent; (iii) contracts for consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; 
(iv) Incremental Operating Costs; and (v) contracts for individual consultants and 
training not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to develop or rehabilitate land located 
in poor rural regions of the Southern Governorates for allocation to landless farm 
families; (b) to raise the welfare in impoverished rural communities in the Southern 
Governorates through off-farm income-generating activities; and (c) to develop rural 
communities in the Southern Governorates.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Land Development
1.
Development or rehabilitation of farming land through well drilling, provision 
of pumping equipment, conveyance of water from wells to fields, leveling of fields, 
leaching, deep ploughing, canal construction, tree planting, soil amendment, 
reclamation of land, and provision of vehicles therefor.
2.
Rehabilitation of state farm lands in the Hadramawt Governorate through well 
drilling and cleaning, provision of pumping equipment, conveyance of water from wells 
to fields, canal lining, leveling of fields, leaching, deep ploughing, weeding, canal 
construction, tree planting, soil amendment, and reclamation of land.
3.
Provision of training and extension assistance to farmers.
Part B:
Off-Farm Income Development
1.
Support for livestock development through training in animal health protection, 
and the provision of veterinary equipment and medicines.
2.
Support for artisanal fishing on the south coast west of Mukalla through 
training and assistance in preparation of applications for credit to purchase boats 
and fishing gear.
3.
Assistance to new and existing micro and small enterprises, and promotion of 
other revenue-earning services, including provision of training and apprenticeships in 
agriculturally related fields, artisanal activities, building skills, and other 
revenue-generating services, and provision of vehicles therefor.
4.
Development of institutional capacity for micro finance and small enterprise 
lending activities through provision of technical assistance and training.
Part C:
Rural Community Development
1.
Development of community management skills and institutions through provision of 
training and logistical support to community organizations and provision of vehicles 
therefor.
Page  9
2.
Provision of grants for community Subprojects in water supply and sanitation, 
community centers, flood protection works and other local community infrastructure.
Part D:
Implementation and Future Projects
1.
Development of the institutional capacity of the PMU for implementation of the 
Project through provision of equipment, technical assistance, and training.
2.
Carrying out of studies for preparation of future agriculture projects.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures.
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, and goods 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Page  10
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $ 250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Goods and Works through Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part C (2) of the Project up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
Page  11
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for the PMU and other tasks estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Project shall be carried out by MAWR through the Steering Committee and the 
PMU in accordance with the Manual of Procedures, as such manual may be updated from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
2.
(a)
For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and execution of the 
Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee, with membership and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The functions of said Steering Committee shall include, inter alia:
(i)
appointment of senior staff of the PMU;
(ii)
review and approval of the annual work programs budgets and 
reports for the operation of the PMU;
Page  12
(iii)
appointment of auditors and review of auditor's reports; 
and
(iv)
review of annual staff performance reviews to be carried 
out in accordance with the Manual of Procedures by January 
31 of 
each year.
3.
(a)
For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the execution of 
the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PMU with organization, staffing and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association; and to this end: (i) shall by December 
31, 1997, appoint a senior community development specialist, a senior business 
development adviser, a senior engineer, and a finance manager satisfactory to the 
Association in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) 
shall by March 31, 1998, appoint other key staff satisfactory to the Association in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU will:
(i)
prepare annual work programs, budgets and reports in 
accordance with the Manual of Procedures;
(ii)
furnish to the Association prior to November 30 of each 
year its proposed annual work programs, budgets and reports 
for the next year;
(iii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to review 
such proposed annual work programs, budgets and reports; 
and
(iv)
following the approval by the Association, carry out the 
Project activities in accordance with the annual work 
program.
4.
(a)
In carrying out Part A of the Project and, prior to initiating any 
activity to develop the land sites under the Project the Borrower shall: (i) demarcate 
such sites in accordance with the Manual of Procedures; and (ii) grant freehold title 
on individual plots of land to beneficiaries selected in accordance with the Manual of 
Procedures.
(b)
The Borrower shall recover from the each of the beneficiaries granted 
freehold title in accordance with Paragraph 4 (a) above, an amount equivalent to fifty 
percent of the cost of pumps, engines, and irrigation systems.  Such amount shall be 
repaid over a fifteen year term, including three years grace, commencing from the 
start of farming operations.  The amounts to be so recovered shall be secured by a 
mortgage over the title to such plots of land.  The title would also be subject to 
covenants concerning cultivation of the land, membership in the water users’ 
association, and agreements: (i) not to sell the land for a ten year period, (ii) not 
to use the land for non-agricultural purposes, and (iii) not to drill shallow wells.
(c)
The Borrower shall appoint, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement, a financial institution satisfactory to the Association to collect 
the amounts secured by mortgages under Paragraph 4 (b) above.  Amounts so collected 
will be deposited into an escrow account to be used for local community projects.  The 
Borrower shall authorize one or more local community organizations to select local 
community projects and administer the escrow account in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU will: (a) by December 31, 1998, prepare 
and furnish to the Association for approval, a manual for operation and maintenance of 
the groundwater irrigation schemes under Parts A (1) and A (2) of the Project; (b) by 
December 31, 1999, prepare and furnish to the Association for approval, a manual for 
operation and maintenance of the spate irrigation scheme under Part A (2) of the 
Project; (c) by December 31 of each year, assist the water user associations to review 
and revise the charges paid by water users under such schemes so as to cover all 
operation and maintenance costs; (d) cause the PMU to inspect the irrigation systems 
under Parts A (1) and A (2) of the Project periodically, and to assist the water user 
associations to maintain such irrigation systems in accordance with sound engineering 
practice, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association; and (e) prepare and 
Page  13
furnish to the Association for review by December 31, 1998, a water management program 
for the spate irrigation system under Part A (2) of the Project to ensure that the 
allocation and distribution of water will be equitable and efficient.
6.
The Borrower shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the Association by December 31, 
1998, a plan to control groundwater abstraction in the areas developed for groundwater 
irrigation under the Project; (ii) carry out such plan by limiting abstraction in each 
aquifer to those amounts recommended under such plan; and (iii) prepare and furnish to 
the Association by March 31 in each year a report on monitoring and assessment of 
groundwater levels during the preceding year for each of the areas developed for 
groundwater irrigation under the Project.
7.
With regard to Part C (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the PMU 
shall
(i)
appraise Subprojects in accordance with the Manual of 
Procedures, and that such Subprojects meet the criteria set 
forth therein;
(ii)
prepare summary environmental assessments identifying any 
potential adverse environmental effects to be produced by 
proposed Subprojects; and
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said Subprojects, including measures 
to screen and mitigate any adverse environmental effects.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain and cause the PMU to maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
cause the PMU to prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2000, a 
mid-term report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 1, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  14
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
 (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  15
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
