Report No. PID11607
Project Name                     MALI-Mali Household Energy and Universal Access Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           General energy sector (100%)
Supplemental Project             P076440
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF MALI
Implementing Agency
Address DIRECTION NATIONALE DE L'ENERGIE
Address: Batiment CRES, Badalabougou, B.P. 1872 Bamako,
Mali
Contact Person: Mr Solomani Diakite
Tel: 223-222-45-38
Fax: 223-223-73-96
Email: denergy@afribone.net.ml
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 3, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              March 28, 2003
Bank Approval Date               June 26, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Mali's domestic energy resources consist of biomass (fuelwood, charcoal,
agricultural and agro-industrial residues), hydro, and solar energy.
Presently, only biomass for household energy and hydro for electricity
generation are exploited on a significant scale. The country's
hydroelectric potential, based on the Senegal and Niger river system, is
estimated at about 1,000 MW capable of producing 5,000 GWh in an average
year. Of this potential, only about
250 MW have been developed so far, at the Selingue and Sotuba dams on the
Niger River and the Manantali dam on the Senegal River. Mali has no
significant known fossil fuels. Petroleum product consumption is entirely
dependent on imports (about 300,000 tons annually).
The GoM has made important steps on reform and efficiency in the
management of the grid-based energy sector with the successful
privatization of EDM and the privately managed Manantali dam. However,
reform processes and institutions to provide energy for rural populations
need to be strengthened to foster a lasting competitive business
environment attractive to private investors and operators. The imperative
to provide energy services to the poor and to reduce poverty calls for a
spectrum of energy services,    innovative service delivery mechanisms,
with an active participation of communities, NGOs, in addition to the
private sector.
Energy sector reform: Until 2000, unreliable power supply has been a
major constraint for business expansion in Mali. Tariffs were below
economic cost. The state-owned power utility Energie du Mali (EDM) was
poorly managed and lacked investment funds to ensure quality and
reliability of services to consumers and to expand access of electricity
to a growing number of households in demand. Through the now closed



IDA-financed Selingue Rehabilitation Project, the Government ), the
Government undertook a major restructuring of the power sector. After
retaining the privatization option, the Government set up new legal and
regulatory frameworks, and established in March 2000 an independent
regulatory authority, Commission de Regulation d'Eau et d'Electricite
(CREE), prior to transferring EDM's assets to a private concessionnaire
selected through ICB procurement method.
In December 2000, the new operator (SAUR International) assumed
management responsibilities under a concession contract. This operation
has resulted in a notable increase in service quality, acknowledged by
both the Government and the consumers, and the company's precarious
financial situation stabilized. After several negotiations, the Government
and EDM, with the approval of the Regulatory Commission have negotiated in
September 2002 a tariff reduction for the last quarter of the year 2002
(October 1st to December 31,2002) on the basis that by now more than 70%
of the supply comes from hydropower plants (Manantali and Selingue).
Following the restructuring of the power sector, the national directorate
of energy (DNE) has been assigned new responsibilities of sector strategy
and policy formulation, monitoring evaluation, and impact assessment. At
present DNE is poorly equipped and lack some of the expertise needed to
play these roles. The GoM decisions of decentralization of energy supply
will require further advisory and supervision activities from DNE. Support
to DNE is thus needed to enable it to play its expected new role and set
up a sound business environment for increased private sector
participation.
Energy services delivery
Electricity: In Mali, barely 1 percent of the rural population has access
to electricity. Most rural households meet their lighting and small power
needs with kerosene, dry cell and car batteries. Kerosene is the primary
source of lighting , with an average household expenditure of US$ 4 to 7
per month. The use of dry cell batteries for flashlights and radio/sound
equipment and the growing demand for televisions powered by car-batteries
result in high average household expenditures for energy of around US$
10-15 per
month for the upper-income rural households.
More than 80% of the 5700 villages of Mali have a school or an
alphabetization center, most of which are without any form of energy for
lighting and audio-visual applications. Rural health centers are providing
services in 55% of the villages. Only 9% of the villages have access to
electricity, and most of them have a place of worship for which the
villagers would like to have lighting, ventilation, and/or sound system.
Cultural or youth centers are only present in 11% of the villages and the
village communities are as well interested to have lighting and
audio-visual equipment.
Renewable Energy: With such a poor access to electricity in rural areas,
the potential market for rural energy is considerable and the Government
of Mali, over the past decade, has launched several initiatives to break
up the spiral of the electricity divide through the development of
decentralized renewable energy based systems. Several pilot projects using
-2 -



renewable (hydro, solar and wind) and other types of energy (diesel) have
been carried out, with donor, public and private financing, to test market
appetite, and various technical and institutional arrangements with highly
positive results.These pilots have demonstrated: (i) the affordability of
electricity in rural areas; and (ii) the appetite of the (mainly local)
private entrepreneurs for energy services delivery business.
Following the deregulation of the electricity sector, the Government has
granted 12-year licenses to two local decentralized services companies
(DSC) outside EDM SA's perimeter, SSD Yeelen Kura in cotton production
areas (electrification of 20 localities) and SSD in Senegal River Basin
(electrification of 5 localities). Although local, these DSC have been
sponsored by major international companies (Electricite De France, NUON of
Netherlands and TOTALFINAELF) and have so far sustained viable operations.
According to surveys conducted, a scale up of these initiatives will
require the removal of several barriers: (i) institutional barriers; (ii)
private sector and market barriers; (iii) financial barriers; and (iv)
information, education and training barriers.
The track record of these initiatives however provides a strong platform
for intervention and development of focused activities to scale-up the
electricity coverage and removing barriers. Hence, the Government's rural
electrification strategy is to build upon the lessons so far learned on
the grounds to reduce inequalities in access to modern energy and increase
social welfare, education, health and income generating opportunities in
rural and peri-urban areas. To achieve this goal, the government wants to
develop national institutions to scale up successful programs.
The Government has clearly defined that any rural energy program has to
deal with particularly severe technical and economic constraints, which
are direct consequences of the intrinsic characteristics of rural areas
and populations and hamper the profitability prospects of the program.
These constraints are high investment costs and wide dispersion of loads
not suitable for power networks expansion; and low capacity-to-pay and
irregular income of rural populations.
To accelerate energy access in rural areas in a sustainable manner, it is
thus critical to develop an optimal combination of an institutional (legal
and regulatory) framework and tools (technical, economic and financial)
adequate to address the above-listed constraints and sufficient to attract
and maintain committed private investors -operators. The GoM has already
taken steps in that direction and has decided to create appropriate
institutions to carry out its strategy : (i) a rural energy services
Agency (AMDER) ; and (ii) a financial instrument, a rural energy fund
(REF). The HEURA project aims at strengthening AMDER and REF, and
providing thereby the remaining building blocks to enhance the GOM
initiatives under way.
Wood Energy: Traditional biomass energy in the form of fuelwood, charcoal,
and dung represents about 90 per cent of the final energy consumption in
Mali. Total woodfuel consumption in Bamako is estimated to have grown from
600,000 tons in 1994 to about 1,200, 000 tons in 2000. Biomass energy is
definitely going to remain predominant in the total energy balance in the
decades to come. Indeed, at current rates of rural electrification, the
poorest of the poor will have to wait for many decades in order to have
access to electricity. And, electricity will not cover all energy needs
(cooking). The use of firewood and charcoal by households has substantial
- 3 -



detrimental effects on health (particularly for women and children) and on
the environment. Community-based forest management initiatives and the
introduction of improved wood and charcoal stoves can result into health
and environmental benefits, as well as social and economic benefits in the
short and medium terms, thereby preparing the grounds for affordability of
modern energy services.
The GOM has concluded a Household Energy Project in 2000. This project
has demonstrated an innovative approach to achieve sustainable management
of the natural forest cover through the transfer of the usufruct of these
forests to rural communities. Based on a management plan, agreed upon
between villagers and forestry service, a village management committee is
responsible for the use of the forest. The woodfuel harvested is sold to
commercial transporters at a market created by the village at a price
determined by the villagers themselves. The transporters pay a woodfuel
tax on entering the urban area, where the origin of the woodfuel is
checked by a forestry service control post. Urban consumers thus pay the
price of woodfuel (determined at the rural market) plus transportation
cost, the mark-up and the tax, thus a woodfuel price that reflects
economic cost. To discourage the marketing of woodfuels from non-managed
forests the tax paid at the control post by transporters with wood from
those non-managed areas is higher than the tax plus the fuelwood cost at
the rural markets. At the moment more than 200 village management plans
exist covering about 320,000 ha. Also, about 54 rural firewood markets
were established, among which 50 by 14 private operators. Better
management of the forests and better carbonization techniques have been
introduced for greater efficiency in the production of woodfuels. Further,
to encourage conservation of woodfuel, improved stoves and substitute
fuels were promoted. More than 85,000 charcoal stoves have been sold in
the cities where the project intervened; this is about 20t more than the
target. A high momentum is created by these initiatives and further
interventions are needed to scale up and to strenghen sustainability
mechanisms.
2. Objectives
The household energy and universal rural access (HEURA) project intends to
support the Government of Mali's efforts to increase access to energy
services to help achieve its poverty reduction targets including those
linked with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
The detailed objectives include:
(i) accelerating the use of modern energy in rural and peri-urban areas in
order to improve living standards, to enhance quality and efficiency of
health and education centers, and to increase productivity of small and
medium enterprises;
(ii) promoting further community based woodland management to reduce
unsustainable pressure on forest resources while simultaneously
encouraging interfuel substitution and energy efficiency initiatives;
and,
(iii) strengthening the energy sector reform processes and institutions
to create a favorable investment environment for increased private sector
- 4 -



participation in energy services delivery
in rural and peri-urban areas.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Building on its experience in supporting rural energy, and household
energy programs in over 30 countries, the Bank is actively assisting the
GoM in the preparation of HEURA project, and will continue to assist the
country during the implementation phases. The Bank will also assist the
GoM in creating institutions including AMDER and REF susceptible to
effectively carry out donor coordination in the decentralized energy
sector.
The UNDP through GEF financing to support the HEURA will also contribute
its experience in developing on strengthening local capacity for
absorption of RET and on providing private sector led     off-grid energy
services to the poor. Based on previous experience, UNDP will utilize its
expertise to identify potential investments and match them with expressed
demand and needs.
The overall Bank investment project on decentralized energy access in Mali
makes it possible for integrating GEF operations under OP 6 on barrier
removal for the adoption and promotion of RET. The project fully realizes
the commitment of the Bank and UNDP initiatives towards removal of major
barriers in the country towards promoting, adopting and disseminating RETs
for the benefit of social welfare in Mali and reduction of GHG. UNDP and
the Bank agreed to a joint implementation of the project. To achieve this
mandate, UNDP and the Bank have been consulting and successfully developed
a collaborative relationship for the implementation of the project in
Mali. Both UNDP and the Bank consulted with the Government and
particularly with the Ministry of energy and other stakeholders.
UNDP/Bank collaboration would help mobilize private resources and
management for the sector and particularly for RETs. UNDP/World Bank
coordinated efforts toward meeting common development objectives would
encourage replicability of RETs, particularly PV and wind technologies, in
other countries of the region.
4. Description
1.1 Component 1: Capacity Development and Institutional Strengthening
In the Malian context of power sector reform, a support of IDA will ensure
that the regulatory and institutional reform is deepened and pave the
ways for decentralized energy in rural and peri-urban areas. Specifically,
for the Regulatory Commission, which oversees the management of
decentralized energy schemes, IDA will support the following activities:
Training and capacity building program for the members of the commission
in the areas of regulatory analytical accounting, finance and economics,
tariff design;
Technical assistance to develop and implement the monitoring and
evaluation program of the operators, and to build awareness among
consumers and technical ministries staff.
For the DNE, IDA will support the following activities:
- 5 -



Training and capacity building program for the staff in the areas of
policy formulation, monitoring, evaluation, and impact assessment;
Technical assistance to set up a monitoring, evaluation, and impact
assessment systems, including the supply of equipment, tools, and best
practice.
1.2 Component 2: Energy Services Delivery
To date, the rural electrification rate is at the core of the Government's
rural development strategy with the following objectives:
Contribute to the economic development by providing additional means to
create wealth and revenue flows;
Improve the living conditions of the rural populations and provide social
incentives to maintain communities in their local environment;
Protect the environment through the use of environmental friendly
technologies, which meet modern standards
However, an ambitious energy development program requires on one hand
hefty investments and on the other hand, the involvement of new players -
private "investor-operators" - beside traditional institutional actors
under private-public partnership.
This component will in the first two years assist the GOM
A in the strengthening of the implementation agency, "Agence Malienne
d'Energie Rurale" (AMDER), for the promotion of energy services in rural
areas, and the rural energy fund (REF)
A in developing financial mechanisms to facilitate the participation of
private sector operators in rural electrification projects using new
schemes such as the Output-Based Aid,
A in providing business development support services to prospective
private operators,
A in promoting the development of the PV market and the use of local and
renewable energies
A in developing "adaptive" demonstration projects : to test both the
institutional and financing mechanisms to sustain rural energy schemes.
During this first phase, the project will support the two operations
underway, the DSC Yelen Kura of the cotton zone and the DSC of the River
Area, in order to validate by doing£ the financing mechanisms and
operational rules for the implementation of the RE strategy, and at the
same time, and will also define new locations, candidates for RE, and
prepare bidding documents for the selection of operators in these
locations.
The component will accelerate investments and increase the regional
coverage by shifting from demonstration projects to processing projects
through the institutional framework, with continuing business development
assistance.
1.3 Component 3: Household Energy
The household energy component will build on achievements of the previous
Household Energy Projet co-financed by the GEF and IDA. This follow up
intervention is intended: (a) to encourage Government agencies to
withdraw themselves from day to day project execution in the household
energy sector to a role where they formulate policies and strategies,
monitor and evaluate activities of the sector; (b) to transfer the
management of forest resources to local communities by generalyzing
community based forest management initiatives which will include the
- 6 -



introduction and the promotion of efficient charcoal production
technologies; and, (c) to empower local communities, NGOs and the private
sector to operate demand side interfuel substitution initiatives such as
the manufacturing, commercialization and dissemination of improved (wood,
charcoal) stoves as well as kerosene and LPG stoves. Woodfuel taxes will
be levied in the villages and compliance will be high because of the
inherent benefits at the village level. Taxes collected will contribute to
fund basic modern infrastructure services and income derived from
activities of this component will help participating local communities
afford modern infrastructure services. The streamlining of the wood fuel
sector essentially transfers of forestry management and commerce control
know-how from public to private actors will lead to the technical and
managerial professionalization of wood activities, creating new
opportunities for skilled self-employment in rural communities.
Development of new products, such as new stoves, biomass briquettes,
low-consumption lamps or air-coolers which would contribute to the
creation of new commercial or industrial businesses.
Capacity Development and Institutional Strengthening
Energy Services Delivery
Household Energy
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $27.80
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $3.50
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE $8.00
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED) $14.00
Total Project Cost $53.30
6. Implementation
It is currently envisaged that the National Directorate of Energy (DNE)
will be the executing agency for the implementation of the project during
the transition period, when the AMDER is being reinforced and operational
guidelines are being drafted for rural energy schemes. It is envisaged
that the DNE will collaborate closely with and benefit from experience of
staff from the former Household Energy Project and staff from the CREE.
For the rural energy schemes, the DNE will closely work with the existing
two DSC to expand coverage in their current perimeter. The mission of the
upcoming AMDER which should take over the implementation from the DNE will
be the following:
to prepare and update periodically the RE master plan
to promote the emergence and coherent development of rural energy
projects, through the provision of up-front costs subsidies from the Rural
Energy Fund (REF);
to provide technical and, if applicable financial assistance, to ensure
technical, economical and financial viability of operators in rural areas;
and,
to conduct awareness, information, and when applicable training,
activities for the different stakeholders in the RE sector.
For this purpose, the AMDER will have full responsibility to review
projects proposals, either through unsolicited submission or in response
- 7 -



to launched bidding processes, and process financial assistance or subsidy
requests as deemed appropriate for the implementation of these projects.
7. Sustainability
A key strategic reason to initiate rural energy investments is to seek
sufficient, gradual nurturing of the local markets and capacities so as to
ensure long-term sustainability of activities in the sector. GEF grants
are intended to help remove current barriers preventing the development of
such initiatives. For solar pv systems for example, the decline in costs
will come from: (i) economies of scale -which are often realized when a
credible expectation of a large market has been created, (ii) formation of
links to lower-cost suppliers abroad, and (iii) rising incomes, which will
increase the affordability of the systems. Further, the GEF grant per unit
for solar pv systems is also slated to decline over time.
Thus, the key assumptions underlying the viability and replication
prospects are that cost-reductions will be realized and incomes will rise.
Given the GEF share of 20-25% in total costs, it is reasonable to expect
that cost reductions and income increases over a number of years will
offset the need for such support after the project is over. Additionally,
the planned capacity strengthening activities will support 'learning by
doing' and incorporating mid-term revisions and corrections along the way;
taking care to reduce grant dependencies of individual sub-projects after
the initial phase.
As one of the least-developed countries, Mali is expected to remain for
some time dependent on grant support from donors in social sector
investments - e.g., health and education. To that extent, the expansion of
the 'public institutional market' will remain indirectly dependent on
donor support. The major change this project proposes in this regard is to
incorporate energy services requirements as a routine part of budgetary
processes of individual line ministries. Initially the PV sellers take the
usual commercial risk that this portion of their market depends on the
ability of the GoM to fund public-sector social services. Over time, as
their market grows and diversifies, this risk would become relatively
smaller.
Regarding household energy, the project through further legal and
regulatory reform intends to ground sustainable wood production and
consumption. As for substitution stoves sustainability is a major
objective to be pursued by private operators operating in cost-effective
manner. Initial capital subsidies appear justified to mitigate first steps
of market development, scheduled to be phased-out as soon as a market is
firmly established.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
n Regulation: Legislative changes upfront are needed to bring
decentralized energy initiatives such as those of the HEURA in the rural
areas into effect on a sustainable basis. The definition of a
comprehensive set of regulatory and administrative rules for decentralized
rural energy is indispensable to create an adequate climate for private
sector and local government involvement. A well-defined and operational
energy policy need to be in place with proper specifications on the roles
of the different actors, local communities, private sector operators,
- 8 -



NGOs, public agencies. In Mali, the energy policy has been devleoped; the
rural energy agency and Fund will be created prior to project appraisal,
based on the experience of the pilot rural energy projects.
Regarding particularly initiatives on household energy, the definition of
a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework with clear implementation
rules and the design of simplified fiscal and pricing mechanisms are
required to avoid loopholes, distortions and opportunities for corruption
in household fuels market.
n Community Ownership, Participation, and Entrepreneurial Contribution:
Without ownership and participation of local communities in rural energy
programs are not sustainable. Participatory approaches already started
with the Household Energy Project proved to be a key factor of success for
the different components of the project. They should be continued and
extended to new activities of rural energy under the HEURA project. This
will leave more and more initiatives to local communities on a demand
driven basis. Experience from other projects in the region suggest that
ample consultation/participation of all stakeholders throughout the entire
policy-project cycle, and implementation of a sound communication strategy
are needed for ownership of the project.
ni    Capacity: Past experience also demonstrated the necessity to have
adequate capacity at both the central and decentralized levels for project
implementation. The HEURA in its capacity development component will
address existing capacity weeknesses at both levels and also organize
training activities for private sector operators, NGOs as well as regional
staff of concerned ministries.
ni    Promotion of renewable energy technologies (RETs): Significant
resources are required initially to lower the barriers that impede greater
use of these technologies. These include for instance, resource
assessments and energy use audits, strategy papers, demonstration schemes,
training, and building broader awareness of distribution of RETs as a
viable retail business. At the same time, such nominally "upstream"
activities, if carried out in isolation and without links to a program of
actual procurement and use of RET, do not lead to market development. To
the contrary, a viable investment financing program helps "learning by
doing" and improve the quality and impact of such "upstream" activities.
This project aims to build on prior projects by other donors and develop a
coherent program of sustained knowledge and financing support for the
promotion of these technologies.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Major:
Other: Being incorporated into the national environmental strategy, the
HEURA Project naturally has substantial environmental benefits, at (i)
local level, through reduction of forestry degradation and (ii) global
level, through mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions. Moderate
environmental risks could possibly be linked to (i) insufficient respect
of forestry management rules by involved communities and (ii) rural
electrification where construction of small (micro) power plants could
have a limited impact on the village's surroundings. By supporting
investments in renewable energy the HEURA will yield environmental
benefits.
9



With rural energy projects for which scope and location are not yet
defined, a environmental and safeguard management framework will be put in
place during the first phase of the project to ensure that project
activities are conducted along acceptable environment and safeguard
standards.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Koffi Ekouevi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 5331+3419
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 7, 2003.
- 10 -



