25584
THEWORLD BANK GROUP
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/25/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MALI                                  Project ID: P073036
Global Supplemental ID: P076440
Project: Mali Household Energy and Universal Access  Task Team Leader: Koffi Ekouevi
Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 28, 2003   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 26, 2003                  IDA Amount ($m): 27.80
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE: 8
Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 3.50
Managing Unit: AFTEG                           Sector: General energy sector (100%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other
Status: Lending                                rural development (P); Climate change (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The household energy and universal rural access (HEURA) project intends to support the
Government of Mali's efforts to increase access to energy services to help achieve its poverty
reduction targets including those linked with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
The detailed objectives include:
(i)   accelerating the use of modem energy in rural and peri-urban areas in order to improve
living standards, to enhance quality and efficiency of health and education centers, and to
increase productivity of small and medium enterprises;
(ii)   promoting further community based woodland management to reduce unsustainable
pressure on forest resources while simultaneously encouraging interfuel substitution and energy
efficiency initiatives; and,
(iii)  strengthening the energy sector reform processes and institutions to create a favorable
investment environment for increased private sector participation in energy services delivery
in rural and peri-urban areas.
I.A.3. Project Description:



2
ISDS
1.1 Component 1: Capacity Development and Institutional Strengthening
In the Malian context of power sector reform, a support of IDA will ensure that the regulatory
and institutional reform is deepened and pave the ways for decentralized energy in rural and
peri-urban areas. Specifically, for the Regulatory Commission, which oversees the management
of decentralized energy schemes, IDA will support the following activities:
*   Training and capacity building program for the members of the commission in the areas of
regulatory analytical accounting, finance and economics, tariff design;
*   Technical assistance to develop and implement the monitoring and evaluation program of the
operators, and to build awareness among consumers and technical ministries staff.
For the DNE, IDA will support the following activities:
*   Training and capacity building program for the staff in the areas of policy formulation,
monitoring, evaluation, and impact assessment;
*   Technical assistance to set up a monitoring, evaluation, and impact assessment systems,
including the supply of equipment, tools, and best practice.
1.2 Component 2: Energy Services Delivery
To date, the rural electrification rate is at the core of the Government's rural development
strategy with the following objectives:
*   Contribute to the economic development by providing additional means to create wealth and
revenue flows;
*   Improve the living conditions of the rural populations and provide social incentives to
maintain communities in their local environment;
*   Protect the environment through the use of environmental friendly technologies, which meet
modem standards
However, an ambitious energy development program requires on one hand hefty investments and
on the other hand, the involvement of new players - private "investor-operators" - beside
traditional institutional actors under private-public partnership.
This component will in the first two years assist the GOM:
> in the strengthening of the implementation agency, "Agence Malienne d'Energie Rurale"
(AMDER), for the promotion of energy services in rural areas, and the rural energy fund
(REF)
> in developing financial mechanisms to facilitate the participation of private sector operators
in rural electrification projects using new schemes such as the Output-Based Aid,
> in providing business development support services to prospective private operators,
) in promoting the development of the PV market and the use of local and renewable energies
> in developing "adaptive" demonstration projects : to test both the institutional and financing
mechanisms to sustain rural energy schemes. During this first phase, the project will support
the two operations underway, the DSC Yelen Kura of the cotton zone and the DSC of the



3
ISDS
River Area, in order to validate <<by doing>> the financing mechanisms and operational rules
for the implementation of the RE strategy, and at the same time, and will also define new
locations, candidates for RE, and prepare bidding documents for the selection of operators in
these locations.
The component will accelerate investments and increase the regional coverage by shifting from
demonstration projects to processing projects through the institutional framework, with
continuing business development assistance.
1.3 Component 3: Household Energy
The household energy component will build on achievements of the previous Household Energy
Projet co-financed by the GEF and IDA. This follow up intervention is intended: (a) to
encourage Government agencies to withdraw themselves from day to day project execution in the
household energy sector to a role where they formulate policies and strategies, monitor and
evaluate activities of the sector; (b) to transfer the management of forest resources to local
communities by generalyzing community based forest management initiatives which will include
the introduction and the promotion of efficient charcoal production technologies; and, (c) to
empower local communities, NGOs and the private sector to operate demand side interfuel
substitution initiatives such as the manufacturing, commercialization and dissemination of
improved (wood, charcoal) stoves as well as kerosene and LPG stoves. Woodfuel taxes will be
levied in the villages and compliance will be high because of the inherent benefits at the village
level. Taxes collected will contribute to fund basic modem infrastructure services and income
derived from activities of this component will help participating local communities afford
modem infrastructure services. The streamlining of the wood fuel sector essentially transfers of
forestry management and commerce control know-how from public to private actors will lead to
the technical and managerial professionalization of wood activities, creating new opportunities
for skilled self-employment in rural communities. Development of new products, such as new
stoves, biomass briquettes, low-consumption lamps or air-coolers which would contribute to the
creation of new commercial or industrial businesses.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will cover rural and peri-urban areas of Mali. No negative environmental impacts nor any
displacement of populations are envisaged. The global objective of the project to reduce atmospheric carbon
emissions through removing barriers and reductions in cost of renewable energy are expected to have
positive enviornmental benefits. For example, solar home systems would contribute to reduce indoor air
pollution from unsustainable use of woodfuels and kerosene. The promotion of sustainable woodland
management and the generalization of improved carbonization and utilization of improved stoves will also
contribute to preserve carbon sequestration potentials of forests.
B. ChIeck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The proposed project is not expected to have any significant negative environmental or social
impacts that cannot be effectively mitigated. Negative impacts on cultural heritage, sites of historical
significance and natural resources resulting from project activities will be avoided. An Environmental and
Social Management Framework will be prepared that will specify a clear and systematic process for the



4
ISDS
effective assessment of any potential environmental impacts that result from project-funded activities. The
framework should spell out the institutional arrangement, along with their capacity building requirements,
for sound environmental and social review and screening of sub-projects, as well as monitoring of the
implementation of mitigative measures of potential environmental and social impacts. In accordance with
OP4.12, resettlement, either in the form of land acquisition or the restriction of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the displaced persons will be
avoided or adequately mitigated
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       * Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 0 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section [I - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D. la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Overall, the project is expected to have positive environmental benefits. World Bank's environmental and
social safeguards will be complied with by the private sector operators involved in decentralized energy
services delivery.
Il.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
It is anticipated that that there will be no cumulative adverse impacts.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
At this point project sites are not yet identified, this does not allow predictions on long term impacts of
project activities in the project area. However, as the global objective is to contribute to positive
environmental impacts, it is expected that only minor adverse impacts will occur. Both the energy
services delivery and the household energy components will undergo social and environmental
assessments to identify mitigation measures for issues that could result in long term impacts.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
The alternative of no action has been rejected prior to the choice of renewable energy systems. The
generalization of renewable energy systems is preferred to a situation where inferior fuels are used by the
majority of the population.



5
ISDS
I1.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The borrower is preparing and Environmental and Social Management Framework and a Resettlemenit
Policy Framework. During implementation, these frameworks will serve as basis to screen all
sub-projects. Sub-projects presented by private operators will be subject to environmental and social
assessments based on the frameworks. In view of potential land acquisition and/or loss of access to
resources, the government will prepare the appropriate resettlement instrument based on
recommendations of the Resettlement Policy Framework.
I.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Sites for future sub-projects are have not yet been identified. Discussions are on-going with the
Directorate of Energy and the Directorate of Nature Conservation on the prospective sub-projects
sites. The Environmental and Social Management Framework will outline public participation
plan that will be applied during the preparation of future sub-projects. Safeguard documents will
be distributed to the affected peoples and other stakeholders. Participation will be requested by
local communities in energy services delivery schemes and woodland management initiatives.
Through workshops and consultations, environmental and social issues will be addressed during
project preparation and implementation using participatory needs assessment techniques. The
project will ensure that the consulation processes are mainstreamed in project activities. Private
sector operators and NGOs involved in the project will also be subject to sensitization on
safeguards policies.
The Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework
will be submitted to the Bank for review and then disclosed in-country (during a workshop
organized by the Directorate of Nature Conservation) and by the infoshop on March 24, 2003
prior to appraisal.
E. Safeguards Classiflcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.            Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                  3/12/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                              3/24/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                               3/24/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED   Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                           Expected      Actual



6
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 3/3/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             3/24/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              3/24/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Koffi Ekouevi                               3/12/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Serigne Omar Fye                       3/12/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Kristine Ivarsdotter                   3/12/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:  Amadou Konare                          3/12/2003
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Charlotte S. Bingham                     3/12/2003
Sector Manager/Director:      M.Ananda Covindassamy                       3/12/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEiARCH  ' : .E L                MADaPc.  srrEMS -.111_ _ S



