                                                                                                            99860
Loading the player ...




Helping Poland's Communities Break Through Barriers of Poverty
and Isolation
What does Poland's Post Accession Rural Support Project
have to show for itself six months before it ends? Five
hundred of the country's poorest districts and thousands of its     Photo Gallery
residents can answer this question.

Preschool teacher Dorota Targosz can. She says the school
started in Wlostow village where kids used to stay home until
first grade does much more than teach kids.

"It's not only a place for kids. Their mothers come too. They
can stay and play with their children, talk to other mothers or
they can leave their children at the preschool and use free
time to get another job," says Targosz.                             Related Links


Poland's economy has grown in the past decade and many              The World Bank in Poland
Poles are well off, but large parts of the country remain poor.     Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
And social inclusion needs bolstering, particularly in rural
                                                                    MLSP PARSP Project Website
areas.

                         With support from the project, $32 million worth of contracts were signed with
                         local service providers to help communities break down barriers of poverty and
                         isolation. The communities set up social services and apply for grants to
                         manage and sustain programs that they consider priorities for their most
                         vulnerable people.

                         As a result, communities have been strengthened, relationships fostered, minds
                         broadened and society's marginalized engaged.
Dorota Targosz
                        Besides new kindergartens, women's groups and village associations have
sprung up with cooking demonstrations and folk dancing groups. There are new activities for the
disabled—many of whom had not been able to participate before. There are music programs and sports
for youth. Seniors go on outings to parks and museums. Villagers connect more with one another and
the wider world.

                         In Byszow, local businessman and runner Marek Bargiel started to organize
                         competitions for the disabled after noticing their interest in his running. Now,
                         disabled youth run races and train together. They traveled to Warsaw and
                         Krakow for races but also visited museums and theaters. Instead of staying
                         home out of sight, they have become part of village life. And in so doing, they
                         have changed people's perceptions.

                      "It is surprising how self sufficient the disabled children can be. They don't need
Marek Bargiel         much assistance and they get around very well on their own. This project has
                      made them believe in themselves, but it also has made me believe I can do
something good and there are people who need me," says Bargiel.

"Social exclusion has proved to be a self perpetuating cross-generational social problem and combating
it is an increasingly important challenge in rural underdeveloped gminas in Poland. Breaking the
exclusion cycle cannot occur through high economic growth alone. It also requires proactive policies on
the part of the central and local governments to stimulate social inclusion and build social capital at the
community level. The project has addressed the problems of social exclusion by enhancing the capacity
of local governments to develop, cost, and execute social inclusion programs and by providing grant
financing for delivery of priority social services that have been identified and prioritised in local social
inclusion strategies," says World Bank Sr Social Development Specialist Daniel Owen.

"For the most marginalized, collective agency in organization, representation, voice, and identity is
critical in overcoming discrimination that leads to economic, social, and political exclusion and
inequality. The project has piloted a new approach in Poland in working with socially marginalized and
excluded people through social integration efforts at the local municipality level. It has drawn together
local government and an innovative and creative coalition of public and civil society agencies acting in
concert to improve social service delivery and access and establish sustainable models for tackling
social exclusion."

Projects do not only build roads or hospitals. Some, like the Poland Post Accession Rural Support
project, build human connections and create inspiration for people to reach out to others and improve
their lives. That impetus and feeling of being included can be just as important.
