Document of
The World Banak
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22445
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23370)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35 MILLION
TO THE
MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 12, 2001
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Mozambique Metical
At appraisal Mt. 1,450 = US$ 1
US$ 1 = Mt. 16,600 At Completion
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDP          Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
ASRDP         Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
BPD           People's Development Bank
DINAGECA   National Directorate for Geography and Cadaster
DNER          National Directorate of Rural Extension
FM/FI         Farmer-Managed/Farmer-Inplemented
FSR           Farming Systems Research
INIA          National Institute for Agricultural Research
IPM           Integrated Pest Management
JVC           Joint-Venture Company
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MADER         Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
PROAGRI    Agricultural Sector Public Expenditure Program
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RRP           Rural Rehabilitation Project
T&V           Training and Visit Extension
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:    Sushma Ganguly
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Miriam Brandao/David Nielson



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                    5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                     12
6. Sustainability                                                         13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                          14
8. Lessons Learned                                                        15
9. Partner Comments                                                       16
10. Additional Information                                                17
Annexes
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                      17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                      17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                      18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                      19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components      20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                         21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documnents                                    22
Annex 8. Republic of Mozambique Implementation Completion Report          27
MAP (S)
Map of Mozambique                                                         42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






1.    PROJECT DATA
Report Date:        March 20, 2001
Name:                AGRIC. SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT
Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE/AFTRI
L/C Number:         Cr. 2337-MOZ
Sector/Subsector:    Agriculture/Services
Region:             Africa
KEY DATES
Activity                    Original             Revised
Appraisal                   June/July, 1992
Approval                    11 February, 1992
Effectiveness               15 December, 1992
MTR                         December, 1997      No formal MTR, project restructured 1997
Closing                     December, 2000       June, 2000
Borrower                    Government of Mozamlbique
Implementing Agency         Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (now Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development, - MADER)
Staff                       Current                            At Appraisal
Vice President              C. Madavo                          E. Jaycox
Country Manager             D. Mans                            S. Denning
Sector Manager              S. Ganguly                         C. Helman
Team Leader of ICR          D. Nielson
ICR Primary Author          FAO/CP
Team Leader of Appraisal    -                                  G. Keynan
The project was appraised in July 1991, approved in February 1992 and signed on 30 March 1992.
The original closing date was 31 December 2000. The actual closing date was earlier by six months
(30 June 2000) because by then the Agricultural Sector Public Expenditure Program (PROAGRI)
had become effective and was financing the same activities. This is a core accountability ICR.
2.    PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Outcome                            Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                     Likely (under P'ROAGRI)
Institutional Development Impact    Modest
Bank Performance                   Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance               Unsatisfactory
QAG                  ICR
Quality at Entry                   Poor                 Poor
Project at Risk at any time:      No                    No



3.  ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN AND
QUALITY AT ENTRY
3.1       Original Objective:
The main objective of the Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
(ASRDP), as stated in the SAR, was to increase production and returns from foodcrop and cotton
cultivation in the family subsector through the rehabilitation and development of effective
agricultural services and the strengthening of institutional capacity in the Provinces of Nampula
and Cabo Delgado. It was estimated at appraisal that some 140,000 farm families would be
reached directly by the supported agricultural services. This was expected to lead to increased
yields and average annual increase in production on the order of 23,000 tons for seed cotton,
38,000 tons for maize and 7,600 tons for beans.
The objective was clear and continues to be important to the country. The objective
was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and with the government's
attempt to develop and disseminate improved farming practices aimed at increasing agricultural
productivity and rural household incomes. Although food security today in Mozambique is less
problematic than in 1992, yield levels of food and cash crops remain low, and the objective of
reduced poverty and increased incomes in rural areas still drives the government's strategy and
actions in rural areas throughout the country.
3.2       Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during implementation.
3.3       Original Components:
The project objective was to be achieved through the following components:
* upgraded agricultural services such as extension and applied research;
= working capital and investment credit for agricultural production and marketing;
- rural water supply facilities;
* land use and management services; and
* institutional development including training of personnel of MADER.
3.4       Revised Components:
The project was officially re-structured in 1997. This re-structuring was motivated
largely by a desire to rationalise and consolidate the various World Bank instruments of support to
the rural sector in Mozambique and was only to a lesser extent driven by concerns with ASRDP in
and of itself. The restructuring involved changes to ASRDP, but also to the Rural Rehabilitation
Project (RRP) and, in addition, included the cancellation of the Agricultural Rehabilitation and
Development Project (ARDP). The restructuring aimed at focusing IDA support on the priority
needs in the sector at the time and aligning implementation responsibilities with the country's new
institutional framework. ASRDP and RRP were designed during the civil war largely as area-
based operations focusing, by necessity, on safe and accessible rural areas. They included similar
components (land management and rural water supply), but operated in different areas of the
country. In practice they were only loosely co-ordinated, reflecting the lack of a coherent policy
framework and the fragmented institutional set-up that existed at the time of preparation. Political
2



stability since the signing of the peace accord in October, 1992 permitted the Government to
begin a shift from emergency operations toward the implementation of a longer-term rural
development strategy. Slow credit disbursements under ASRDP prior to 1996/97 made it clear
that expectations had been optimistic at appraisal regarding the speed at which it would be
possible to re-establish effective research and extension institutions in Mozambique as well as the
private sector's demand for credit and the ability/willingness of financial institutions to meet
actual demand"'.
The restructuring of IDA-financed operations in the agricultural sector included a
redirection of available resources to activities which would become part of the Agricultural Sector
Public Expenditure Program (PROAGRI), then under preparation, and a streamlining of the
activities which were being financed under the ASRDP, the RRP and the ARDP. The
restructuring involved: the transfer of agricultural services financed under ARDP (agricultural
extension and cashew rehabilitation activities) to ASRDP; the transfer of Rural Water Supply
Component from ASRDP to RRP; the-cancellation of the remaining balance of ARDP; the
cancellation of the Credit Component under ASRDP; and the transfer to ASRDP of studies and
surveys which had originally been included under the Land component of the RRP. The revised
total IDA financing for ASRDP was US$ 25.7 million against US$ 35.0 million at appraisal. The
restructured ASRDP was to have expanded geographic coverage (adding Gaza and Inhambane,
the two provinces of ARDP) and was to focus primarily on agricultural extension, applied
research, and land. Further, it was to go forward under a now-unified management. The ASRDP
extended its coverage to Gaza and Inhambane Provinces in February and August 1999
respectively.
The project was designed to have bi-annual and mid-term reviews. These should
have provided opportunities for lessons learned (under ASRDP, but also in agricultural services
programs in other countries) to be taken into account over the course of a flexible and evolving
implementation of the Program. The technical reviews were not undertaken and consequently,
opportunities to review and modify approaches may have been missed - this may have been
particularly evident with regard to the government extension service. The mid-term review was
also not undertaken per se, rather it was subsumed in the project's restructuring. Consequently,
here too an opportunity was missed to analyze past performance, to address the issues impeding
implementation and impact, and to re-direct the technical content of project's components.
At the time of restructuring, the project's main development objective remained
basically unchanged: "rebuilding national research and extension institutions able to help
smallholders increase productivity and incomes".
3.5       Quality at Entry:
From a theoretical point of view, the components were reasonably related to
achieving the project objective. An exception to this might be the Rural Water Supply
Component which is not directly related to the specified objectives of increasing the production
and returns from food crops and cotton. At the time of project design the country was still
engulfed in civil war and the basic infrastructure was dilapidated. Implementation capacity and
analytical capability at the national, provincial, district and village levels were inadequate, making
it difficult to achieve impact in a short time, and so the project implementation period was
relatively long (eight years).
The ICR mission supports the QAG supervision assessment which stated that: "The
project design was far too complex for a country emerging out of civil war and with limited
implementation capacity". The number of project components, the number of implementing
Bank memorandum with the proposed amendments to the Development Credit Agreements of ASRDP and
the Rural Rehabilitation Project (RRP) dated 7 May 1997.
3



agencies involved and their weak management and implementation capacity, and the range of
policy and institutional improvements required for effective implementation, made the design of
the program too complex and risky. Poor salaries of government staff, weak financial systems,
and inadequate and tardy counterpart funding were problems prevalent at the time of project
appraisal and continue to persist today. The underlying assumption that support for human
resource development and training in management, and the formation of a relatively highly-paid
project implementation unit, would generate adequate commitment to efficient and effective
implementation of the project components was optimistic.
With regard to the research and extension components, the project aimed at the
establishment of a (modified) Training and Visit (T&V) extension system and a Farming Systems
Research (FSR) program. This was following a UNDP/FAO project during the period 1981 to
1990 in which the extension services of the then state cotton companies had been supported in
establishing a system similar to T&V in Nampula and Cabo Delgado Provinces. In retrospect, it
should have been clearer to the preparation team that the investment and recurrent costs of these
systems were high, and that this would place a high constraint on sustainability. Also, the
achievement of the main objective of the FSR approach, to instil a farming systems perspective in
on-station and on-farm researchers and extensionists, required a major attitudinal change within
the research/extension system. A decentralisation of both research and extension beyond what
was proposed under the project should probably have been explored as pre-requisites of achieving
such changes.
The project design also worked against decentralization of the extension services in
two ways. First, because it placed most of the control over the project resources in the hands of
the provincial extension supervisor. Two key players were not provided with either the means or
authority over the project: the provincial and district agriculture directors. As a result, they had no
incentive to become involved with the extension services and participate in the project's
objectives and activities. Second, it created a layer of management (in the person of the
component coordinator) between the provincial level and the project's implementation unit (PIU).
The component coordinators (usually the director of each service) were the final arbiters over
each component's activities and expenditures, and the PIU's role was to follow through on their
decisions. For a number of reasons, activity plans and budgets requested by the provincial level
were often altered at the central level (primarily to adjust to counterpart funding shortfalls) and
not discussed with the provincial level. When adequate funds failed to arrive, the provincial level
blamed the PIU which in turn blamed the component coordinators. This distrust between the
central and provincial levels and the PIU was apparent throughout the life of the project.
The proposed Unified Extension Service, with polyvalent Field Extension Workers,
was consistent with the farming systems perspective underlying the agricultural research
programs. However, it may have been unrealistic to expect that it would be feasible given the
skill-levels prevalent among extensionists at the time. The amount of training required to turn
commodity-focused extensionists, who had at most an elementary -level education, into
polyvalent extensionists with a farming systems perspective, was underestimated in the project
design.
The QAG supervision assessment questions the soundness of project design on the
grounds of its complexity. The ICR also rates the quality at entry unsatisfactory. The project
objective was and remains consistent with government priorities and the Bank's CAS, but there
were deficiencies in the design. When the extension system was established (with the project's
support) the project staff, particularly at the field level, had limited formal training. It was thus
unrealistic to adopt an extension approach which demanded more independent and creative work
at that level (as required by the FSR approach). It is only now, eight years later, after MADER has
gained some experience and there are better trained staff available, that there exists the basis to
embark on more complex paradigms.
4



It was also unrealistic to have expected the project to have acted be able to
accomplish attitudinal change in the institutions themselves. First, changes in attitude depended
on MADER's political will and institutional arrangements, areas which are somewhat beyond the
scope of a single project. It was through regular, hands-on supervision missions, which made
every effort to interact with the involved staff, project beneficiaries and other stakeholders, that
field evidence was taken as the basis for evaluations, mid-term corrections, and the incorporation
of new initiatives. The adoption of this methodology by the extension managers was expected to
lead to attitudinal and institutional change. Yet, it is obvious that supervision missions had to be
limited in number and duration and could not serve as a substitute for changing the incentive
structures within MADER's internal processes.
Last, it was unreasonable to assume that aLn enabling environment (markets, inputs,
financial price incentives, roads, etc.) for the adoption of the extended technology would be
established during the life of the project. At the time of approval of the project, the participation
of the cotton joint venture companies in managing extension on a pilot basis, and of the financial
intermediaries in managing the credit component, had not been obtained, and consequently these
activities were not ready for implementation. Despite efforts to establish participation agreements
with companies/banks, no agreements were reached during the project. The availability of credit
was correctly seen as crucial to enable the adoption of technologies using purchased inputs, and
the failure of this component and its subsequent cancellation, while justified under the
circumstances, removed a critical piece of the project's original logic.
4.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
4.1       Outcome/Achievement of Objectives:
A key assumption underlying ASRDP was that support to the rehabilitation and
development of effective agricultural research, extension and land use management would
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of these services. This in turn would result in increased
adoption of improved farming practices, which would lead to higher on-farm productivity and
higher incomes for rural households. The assessment of outputs by components which follows
will show that, by the end of the project, whilst progress was made in establishing the extension
networks and FSR teams, efficiency and effectiveness, or value for money and impact, of the
government agricultural services were not appreciably improved.
The objective of strengthening the institutional capacity of MADER has been
achieved to the extent that a system for management of extension services is now in place.
Improvements in the delivery of research and extension services were certainly realized in the
project districts. Training at various levels combined with the provision of transport facilities,
operating budgets and travel allowances, contributed to some increase in adoption of improved
farming practices.
However, other aspects of capacity building have not been achieved. The project
suffered from poor financial management, delays in disbursement of project funds, late
procurement and delivery of goods, delayed and incomplete civil works, misappropriation of
funds and a lack of an effective M&E system. The capacity to analyze and to react to farmers'
constraints and opportunities remains limited - perhaps because little progress has been made
towards decentralization.
With regard to the expected increase in agricultural productivity and rural incomes,
the ICR mission could not come to a firm conclusion. There is consistent evidence that in areas
influenced by the project (i.e., Nampula, Cabo Delgado, and Gaza), farmers have widely adopted
some of the varieties recommended by the research-extension system. These include maize
5



(Matuba and Manica varieties), cowpea (Variety IT] 8), and high-producing cassava and
sweet-potato. But, since data on impact are not available, these cannot be quantified. Despite the
specific activities in the project's design and assurances obtained at negotiation, and the
continuous references to this problem (i.e. absence of meaningful M&E and impact assessment
systems) in almost every aide-memoire and IDA supervision report, little effective action was
2
taken during the project to redress the situation .
The QAG supervision assessment refers to "some degree of misplaced optimism in
the rating of the project's development impact". Supervision missions, through conversations with
farmers, suggested that extension had achieved impact in terms of increased productivity and
production levels. However, such anecdotal evidence cannot suffice as objective substantiation of
the positive impact of the project. Evidence obtained through talking to a relatively small
proportion of relevant farmers in the presence of an often large group of government and donor
representatives, can lead to inconclusive and misleading information. Since little reliable,
objective, and systematic measurement of yield levels took place, development impact cannot be
conclusively evaluated. As was expressed by the last supervision mission, although the growth
rate of the agricultural sector has been extremely high since 1 992 (average of 14% per year) and
marketed agricultural output from smallholders has increased significantly, there are strong
indications that this growth is due to an expansion of the production factors of land and labor, and
not to increases in productivity. Food security has improved, but it is far from clear that the per
capita income of rural people has increased or that the objective to reduce poverty has been met-.
4.2       Output by Components:
Extension
This component supported the rehabilitation and development of a T&V-based,
unified extension service in 12 districts - 6 in Nampula and 6 in Cabo Delgado Province. In the
SAR it is estimated that, by the end of the eighth project year, the extension service would have
reached directly about 140,000 farming families who, together, would be cultivating some
300,000 hectares (225,000 hectares of food crops and 75,000 hectares of cotton).
The expectations placed on the extensionists were high. They were the key persons on
whom the T&V system relied to achieve impact at farm level, and were assumed to take on a
polyvalent role which implied that they had to master a farming systems perspective. They had to
be prepared to provide advisory services in the production of food, cash crops, and livestock as
well as in the management of farm enterprises. It was unrealistic to assume that, starting from
such a low level of education and experience, the training provided by the project would be
adequate to internalize such a farming systems perspective in such a short time. For resource-poor
farmers there are inevitable compromises in crop and livestock management. The extension
service was not (and still is not) equipped to provide reliable advice on how to handle these
inevitable trade-offs in farm management.
The extensionists increased contacts with farmers and undertook demonstrations, on-
farm trials and field days. A beneficiary assessment conducted in 1997 indicated that in two
selected districts in Nampula Province, 15-20% of the households were in direct contact with
extensionists (the target in the SAR was set at 50%). In the beneficiary assessment, no adoption
rates were established nor were crop samples taken to assess impact on productivity levels.
According to this assessment, farmers complained that no new extension messages were
forthcoming. This lack of new extension messages might have been due to insufficient 'on-the-
shelf technology' that is relevant to smallholders and that has successfully passed the stage of
2 Supervision Mission Report, April 1999.
Supervision Mission Report, February-March 2000.
6



Farmer-Managed/Farmer-Implemented (FMFI) on-farm trials. In the whole of Nampula
Province a total of 137 extensionists now work regularly with some 23,000 families in 7 districts -
roughly 4% of the farm households in the province4. About 17,600 families in 4 districts were
reached through the extension system in Cabo Delgado in the season 1997/985. Thus, in the two
provinces a total of 40,000 households in 11 districts are in direct contact with extensionists
(target set in the SAR was 140,000 in 12 districts). The little data available at district and
provincial levels suggest that over the project life no increases in productivity took place6. This is
supported by the observation by the supervision mission in February 2000 that "extension and
research activities continue to be carried out in routine fashion, without a strong emphasis on
achieving impact at the level of the farmer"7.
Included in plans for the extension component was a pilot activity to contract-out the
management and delivery of extension services to a Joint-Venture Company (JVC). During the
first project year a contract was to be signed with a JVC. Cotton extensionists in the pilot area
would be trained to become polyvalent extension workers in a period of 2-4 years in order to
generate alternative extension delivery mechanisms.
Attempts to implement these pilot activities in alternative delivery mechanisms for
extension continued throughout the project but without success. One possible explanation is that
MADER and DNER resisted the proposals as they feared that the arrangements would diminish
their own power and control over funds. Perhaps more importantly, both the public and the
private sectors were experiencing a market economy for the first time and, given the context,
neither was really prepared for the kind of "advanced" partnership which had been envisioned in
the pilots. Although some informal, short-term collaboration took place, attempts to contract a
cotton company to provide extension on food crops were unsuccessful. Commodity-focused,
single-crop extension is not easily re-oriented to incorporate food crops, because of the overriding
interest in profits from the specific commodity. Moreover, the conventional task of commodity
8
extensionists is to provide production inputs to farmers and recipe-type advice for their use .
Extensionists previously specializing in cotton had to become generalists and internalize the
farming systems perspective. The lesson here is that the establishing of targets in projects,
particularly those of an institutional nature, deserves a proper assessment of local reality and
cannot be done through a direct transfer from other parts of the world. Also, at the time, even in
other African countries with longer experience in public provision of extension services there is
not much experience in outsourcing. Thus, it was difficult to identify experiences to be visited
when DNER was planning a Bank-recommended study tour.
Various supervision missions recommended the (re-)creation of the position of
Extension-Research Liaison Officers (ERLOs) at the provincial level. DNER did not view this as
necessary and no ERLOs were created in either Nampula nor Cabo Delgado provinces.
The total number of vehicles (59), motorcycles (88) and bicycles (620) procured and
distributed to extension staff could only be established for the period 1992-1998 because the
M&E system installed in the project implementation unit (PIU) and quarterly project progress
reports were discontinued. Originally, the PIU maintained a database of basic input indicators as
well as financial and procurement information. However, with the mainstreaming of the unit into
the directorate of economics of MADER in 1999, the collection of these types of indicators was
discontinued.
4 DNER, Quarterly Report April-June 2000.
5 Supervision Mission report, April-June 1998.
6 The reliability of the data on acreage cultivated and total production could not be established - these data are
based on estimates provided by extensionists.
7 Supervision Mission Report, February-March 2000.
8 Supervision Mission Report, October-November 1998.
7



Under this component, the project had some achievements - namely the
establishment and operation of basic extension program in the projects provinces, and some
limited impact of the established program. However, the program has still achieved only limited
coverage, even in the provinces where it started. In those areas where it has operated, impact
appears to have been only marginal. The program has persisted in clinging to methodologies and
institutional frameworks which were not performing well - and this despite the emergence of
alternative methodologies and approaches even within other programs in Mozambique.
Therefore, the extension component is rated as unsatisfactory.
Research
The research component was intended to provide for the establishment of modest
research capacity in cotton breeding, food crops, IPM and FSR. In addition, basic seed
production and longer-term agronomic studies on soil and water conservation, soil fertility and
farm economics were to be initiated. INIA's FSR program was to focus on maintenance of soil
fertility and the rational use of inputs. Multi-disciplinary FSR teams of agronomists, economists
and sociologists were to be established, and training and technical assistance provided. The SAR
indicated that: "The project placed emphasis on the farming systems approach, integrated pest
management, environmental awareness and preservation, and farmers organization, as the basis
for selecting the topics of [training] courses, workshops and seminars".
The impact of this component of the project has been positive, but slow and uneven.
Some cotton breeding work at Namialo has been done, as well as some seed multiplication (in the
season 1999/2000 planting seed for only 140 ha was produced). Progress with the IPM program
was slow, in part affected by the failure of the contractor to complete civil works at Namialo,
including the proposed entomology laboratory, the equipment for which remains boxed and
unused. The FSR work in Nampula did not get started until 1998 - although it is a positive sign
that this work which was launched through long-term technical assistance is now being carried
forward by two Mozambican agronomists who are staff members of MADER. Two more FSR
teams (based in the Lichinga and Sussundenga agricultural stations) are currently operating in
Mozambique as a result of the project's influence. Before the project, there were no university-
trained staff based in the provinces. The FSR team in Nampula have embarked enthusiastically
on some interesting research work, but the scope of their mandate area is huge and well-beyond
their current capacity to deliver. In all areas of research, productivity has been severely hampered
by the fact that requests for computers, FSR literature and funds for training of extensionists have
repeatedly gone unmet.
INIA has not yet succeeded in the establishment of a social science capacity (two
economists occupy management positions), and effective FSR work cannot be implemented
without holistic social science input. This lack of social scientists is explained by the very limited
availability of these professionals in Mozambique (economists prefer urban assignments and a
Sociology Faculty was only created at Eduardo Mondlane University (UEM) two years ago).
Extension specialists, adult education experts, agro-economists and rural sociologists are needed
in FSR work and in the strengthening of farmer organizations, but they have not been available
locally and MADER has been unable to hire new staff (hiring restrictions apply in almost all
public institutions). Thus, the strong emphasis in the SAR on FSR, IPM and soil fertility
management and conservation has not been realized in visible ways in the project area. Research
protocols of on-station and on-farm experiments, which if kept would reveal the thrust, and
quality of the research being undertaken, are inaccessible (or do not exist?).
It should be noted that, starting in 1996, the project has played a major role in
triggering the beginnings of institutional reform (and subsequent decentralization) of the research
system. While progress has been slow, it has been obvious for some time that no "quick-fixes"
were possible. Respecting MADER's own pace has resulted in a much longer preparatory phase
8



than anticipated at appraisal. Yet, in terms of PROAGRI, the agricultural research component
is considered to be one of the more advanced areas of the Ministry in terms of institutional reform
and will be treated as a pilot by MADER's (recently-created) Reform Unit.
At the time of project restructuring, the cashew research activities started under
ARDP were transferred to ASRDP. These included the completion of civil works at research and
cashew multiplication stations, continuation of work on selection for oidium resistance through
vegetative propagation and the production of grafted plants for distribution. The research work
has made progress in oidium resistance and in improving the grafting success rate, but the
numbers of new plants for distribution still falls short of the 1.5 million p.a. target (it is estimated
that around 650,000 trees were planted last year). Many of the civil works were not completed.
In general, the research agenda supported under the project has not been significantly
driven by clients, and no systematic mechanisms have been built into the system to ensure that
research is oriented to farmers' needs. Much of the or-farm experimentation supported under the
project was simply replication of on-station work and researchers failed to distinguish between
different types of on-farm trials9. Most on-farm trials are research-driven and focus on variety
testing (few FMFI on-farm trials have been implemented). Twenty-five years after the emergence
of the first FSR programs in Eastern and Southern Afi-ica more client-orientation could be
expected. Although communication problems (language) and the civil war undoubtedly
contributed to the lack of knowledge on the FSR approach, by now FSR should have been
institutionalized. The institutionalization and internalization of the FSR methodology (as well as
other important issues such as gender sensitivity, results evaluation and accountability, public-
private collaboration, etc.) could not rely solely on training, they should have been triggered by
political commitment along with sufficient analytical capacity - both of which were clearly
lacking in MADER. The ASRDP design and subsequent supervision clearly underestimated the
difficulties inherent in attitudinal change. Overall, the outcome for the research component is
rated as unsatisfactory.
Credit
The credit component was intended to provide seasonal working-capital credit to the
family farm sector under group credit arrangements, and to rural traders on an individual basis (a
revolving fund was to have been established). It was anticipated that under these arrangements,
the number of farm families which would be able to gain access to credit would be in the range of
30-35,000. Roughly 1,000-1,200 credit groups were to be formed through which the individual
farmers would work in seeking credit. Some 500 cornmercial farmers were also to get credit.
Credit was to be offered through the banking system and under market conditions at unsubsidised
rates. Short-term TA was to be provided under the component.
The component was never implemented and, at the time of restructuring in 1997, it
was cancelled. This wa sin part because at the time of project launch, in the early nineties the
banking system was already in a process of being privatized and the People's Development Bank
(BPD) was not willing/able to take decisions with regard to its involvement in rural credit.
Moreover, the BPD did not have experience with credit supply to the family sector and agriculture
was considered a risky enterprise. Smallholders could not provide collateral guarantees and the
official registration of farmer associations was and still is difficult and time-consuming. The
inclusion of the credit component in the project was based on unrealistic and over-optimistic
assumptions concerning local capacity and willingness to participate. While the project was
correct in recognising the need for working capital in order for farmers to adopt technologies
requiring purchased inputs, the project made no progress in this area and the plans which it did
make were unfulfilled. This component is rated as highly unsatisfactory.
Supervision Mission, 1996.
9



Rural Water Supply
The rural water supply component aimed at the rehabilitation and construction of
rural water facilities (wells and boreholes) in the Province of Nampula. Various inventories,
studies and plans were to have been undertaken and completed. Rural communities were to have
been mobilised to participate in the operation and maintenance of rural water supply systems. It
was anticipated that some 250,000 farm families (out of a total number of 280,000 in the targeted
districts) would benefit from this component. TA was to have been be provided.
Until the transfer of these activities to the RRP, some of the inventories, studies and
plans were made and TA was provided. Five new water supply points were installed and 15 were
rehabilitated. At the time of restructuring, this component was transferred to the RRP. Activities
under the component are evaluated in the ICR for that project.
Land Use and ManaQement
The main activities under the land use and management component were to collect,
analyze and present basic data on land use and land tenure using aerial photography, and then to
conduct a broad boundary cadastral surveying exercise, covering the Provinces of Nampula and
Cabo Delgado. MADER's cadastral mapping, titling and registration activities were to be
strengthened through TA, training and by funding surveys and other activities related to land use
and land management. The primary objective was to establish a technically sound and socio-
economically acceptable basis for improved land use and land management. Another type of
support provided by the component was directed towards the legal and regulatory work of the
Land Commission. The land component was added, in part, to avoid conflicts between cotton
producing JVCs, who occupy the best land, and food crop-growing farmer communities.
Implementation of the component was marginally satisfactory. The weak institutional
capacity of the three agencies involved in this component, i.e., the National Directorate for
Geography and Cadaster (DINAGECA), National Institute for Agricultural Research (INIA) and
National Directorate of Rural Extension (DNER) was a major constraint to successful
implementation, and linkages between them remained poor. Equipment was provided and a
considerable amount was spent on staff training, mainly abroad. Unfortunately, this training was
focused on central-level staff and had little effect on improving the capacity at provincial level,
where most of the titles have to be processed. In only one district (Monapo) has all community
land been demarcated so far (this work started in 1998). Socio-economic studies have been
implemented in Monapo and Montepuez districts. Soil and land use maps are made by INIA
(funded by the project) but they are not effectively used. Formulation of soil conservation
packages and land management practices is done by INIA, but it is not clear what has been the
impact at farm level. An impact study on land titling policies, as proposed in the SAR, has not
been implemented. In the family sector title deeds are not a necessity yet, but for farmers'
associations they could become important to secure institutional credit in the future.
Proiect Mana2ement
The effectiveness of the project's management appears to declined in 1996, and
management became much less effective after 1998. This coincided with a change in the
leadership of MADER as a result of the emergence of PROAGRI (which was perceived to be of
higher priority as MADER's main financing mechanism in the future). There was a slackening of
control over the management and administrative routines of the project. The PIU (a MADER
structure not under the administrative or disciplinary control of the Bank), reported to the
directorate of economics of MADER, which also had a change in leadership. Project progress
reports ceased to be produced in 1999, and there was less commitment to implementing project
10



activities. This was seen in the fact that many of the recommendations and agreed actions
following supervision missions either were implemented with delays, or were never implemented
at all. This in turn prompted closer, hands-on management by the PIU, which in turn caused
antagonism between Government and project staff.
In addition, PROAGRI represented a total departure from the "project" approach, and
there was a perception that the principles and managernent of ASRDP established in the first half
of the project could be modified so as to be more like ithose being put into place for the PROAGRI
"program". This, however, coincided with increased instances of financial mismanagement and
lack of technical progress of the project. Reports of "doubtful and non-justified" transactions were
made initially in 1995 following an audit report. A review of the financial transactions for 1999
and 2000 revealed further unjustified expenditures'°.
Institutional Development Impact
The project financed a wide range of training activities although the longer-term
overseas training anticipated at appraisal was limited. This was because a training plan which took
into account short, medium and long-term staffing and skills needs was never prepared by
MADER or the different project components. The project also financed several studies. These
activities have contributed to the capacity of government staff to plan, program and manage
activities. However, the project suffered from poor financial management, procurement and
disbursement delays, and no systems to monitor and evaluate activities and impacts were
implemented. The sub-component to develop pricing policy analysis for cotton had no impact.
There was only limited success in turning the efforts made in building capacity into actual results
and impact, perhaps due to the lack of progress in improving the overall working environment in
public service, and little progress in reorienting extension and research to ensure impact and cost
effectiveness. Approximately 47% of total project expenditures were incurred at central (Maputo)
level on co-ordination and central-level capacity building, a disproportionate amount considering
that the project was seeking impact in the provinces. There were reports from district level that
project funds were not available for field research and extension activities, even though the
financial records indicated a continual flow of funds for operations to the provincial offices.
4.3       Net Present Value/Economic and Financial Rates of Return:
An economic rate of return for the project was calculated both at appraisal and at the
time of restructuring. While the results of the analysis (27% at appraisal and 21% at restructuring)
were presented at the time, the underlying detailed assumptions and the basis for the calculations
were not available. These estimates were based on the net value of expected incremental
production in cotton and food crops. However, there is no information available to indicate to
what extent the project's investment contributed directly to incremental production and, therefore,
there are no reliable impact data on which to make a revised assessment at the end of the project.
Outcome
Based on the above, the outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory. This is
consistent with the conclusions reached by the final supervision mission (February/March 2000).
' E.g. salaries to consultants not directly involved in project activities, and following the theft of proiect funds
by a project consultant and subsequent criminal action in the matter, salary payments in full were continued
to be paid to the consultant by the project until its closing.
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND
OUTCOME
5.1       Factors Outside Control of Government or Implementing Agency:
Which influenced implementation of project activities included:
* unwillingness of financial intermediaries to provide credit to the family sector;
* limited involvement of private sector in agricultural services delivery, input
supply and marketing.
These factors partially affected the achievement of the project outcome.
5.2       Factors Generally Subject to Government Control:
Which influenced implementation of project activities included:
* poor rural infrastructure;
limited project ownership and ensuing reduced commitment to implement
activities;
low institutional and political willingness for the decentralization of research and
extension structures;
* inadequate and delayed counterpart funding;
* extension out-sourcing arrangements not implemented.
These factors substantially affected the achievement of the project outcome.
5.3       Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control:
Which influenced implementation of project activities included:
* weak project management and deficient financial management;
* decentralization not actively pursued and concentration of resources at
headquarters level;
* project management did not install an effective M&E system and progress
reporting was inadequate;
* late installation of FSR team at Nampula;
* weak beneficiary participation.
These factors substantially affected the achievement of the project outcome.
5.4       Costs and Finandng.
The overall cost of the project was US$ 17.6 million compared to the estimated costs
at restructuring of US$ 26.6 million. The original cost at appraisal was US$ 40.5 million. The
costs were less than those estimated at restructuring due to the non-completion of some of the
activities, and a significant change (devaluation) in the exchange rate. Total Bank disbursements
12



were approximately US$ 17 million, with US$ 0.6 financed by the Government. Of the original
credit of SDR 25.9 million, SDR 9.1 was cancelled at restructuring, SDR 12 million was
disbursed, and SDR 4.7 million remains undisbursed. Project costs by component are not
available.
6.        SUSTAINABILITY
6.1      Rationale for Sustainability Rating:
At appraisal, it was argued that the project would be sustainable, from the
Government's viewpoint, by virtue of the additional taxation revenues that would be generated by
incremental production (mainly cotton). Such revenues were to be allocated to the recurrent costs
required to continue to support the extension and research services. This was estimated at US$ 1.7
million annually. The project's impact on taxation revenues for cotton production was minimal as
indicated by the fact that no contracting mechanisms wvere established with cotton JVCs, and that,
at Montepuez where the project's main cotton-related activities took place, LOMACO is now in
financial difficulties and is closing operations. The project's focus on strengthening the T&V
extension system by providing financial support for operating expenses and staff allowances, is
relatively high cost and its cost-effectiveness is questionable. Therefore, on the test set at
appraisal, sustainability is rated unlikely. However, with the advent of PROAGRI, funds will be
directed towards maintaining the extension networks and research activities. Since various donors
question the cost-effectiveness of the current extension system, it is not clear yet what the
technical thrust of extension and research under PROAGRI will be. Some of the guiding
principles under PROAGRI for this component are decentralization; institutional plurality
including contracting out, cost sharing and cost recovery; farmer empowerment; farming systems
approach, and research-extension linkages. These principles, however, are not yet, or are only
partially, practiced The sustainability of the project's support to research and land use and
management faces similar problems. Much will depend on the government's commitment to
actually implementing decentralization policies and to providing an enabling environment (inputs,
markets, prices, roads) in which research and extension can make a difference. On the positive
side, training provided by the project to government staff and farmers will have some beneficial
impact on future development. The conclusion drawn is that the activities established under
ASRDP are likely to be sustained, but only due to continued multi-donor support under
PROAGRI - but this will require a sustained and concerted effort by all stakeholders.
6.2       Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation:
The guiding principles under PROAGRI for the components institutional
strengthening, agricultural research and extension, and land are clear, sound and lay a good basis
for future operations. Once an effective and transparent financial management, management
information and M&E systems, and decentralized client-oriented and gender-sensitive research
and extension systems are established, impact at the level of farm-households can be expected. In
addition, the incentive scheme proposed under PROAGRI with 'standardized incentive payments
to standard government rates' needs to be linked to performance evaluation in order to generate
conimitment to the job and 'impact on the ground'. The challenge is for MADER to be able to
demonstrate value and impact of agricultural sector spending, not just to PROAGRI donors, but,
more importantly, at Cabinet level in the Government.
13



7.    BANK AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Bank
7.1       Lending:
The Bank's intervention was timely and valuable in assisting the reconstruction of the
rural sector following the civil war. However, the Bank promoted a complex and poorly designed
project, which was unrealistic in the underlying assumptions concerning the external environment
and the implementation capacity of the agencies concerned.
7.2       Supervision:
Bank supervision of the project was very active and interventionist. This was perhaps
justifiable in the light of the lack of progress in key areas and instances of poor financial
management. The recommendations of supervision missions were seen to be too prescriptive, and
it was argued by some that this was not conducive to the build-up of responsible local
management. From 1996, during the preparation of PROAGRI, the Bank and other donors were
promoting a new "program" management style while at the same time continuing the supervision
of ASRDP under traditional approaches. This was perceived to be contradictory. The
recommendations of supervision missions were typically not followed-up. Technical supervision
of the project was sometimes inadequate, a contributing cause of this being the limited and
reduced supervision budgets available. The Bank's stance on financial mismanagement was not
tough enough. The satisfactory rating on development objective from inception until May 1999 in
the supervision reports lacked a solid foundation. It might also have caused unjustified satisfaction
and consequent indifference to follow-up on recommendations with both the Bank and the
Government, and an over-optimistic starting point for PROAGRI. There was no basis for
objectively assessing progress towards the development objective in the absence of meaningful
M&E systems. The mid-term review was effective in rationalizing the scope of the project.
7.3       Overall Bank Performance.
The overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. The Bank ignored emerging
thinking on more client-oriented approaches to extension at the design stage and did not actively
explore alternatives over the life of the project. Impact indicators were not identified at the design
stage and were never measured. The satisfactory rating on development objective continued for
too long. It should be noted, to the credit of both the Bank and the Borrower, that many of the
lessons learned (see Section 8) were influential in the design of the next project (PROAGRI).
Borrower
7.4       Preparation:
As noted several places above, the original project design was flawed in a number of
ways. Stakeholder commitment, by the banking system and cotton JVCs, for example, was
absent. Participatory processes were not adequately provided for in the original plans.
Institutional reform issues were not explicitly identified and tackled in project plans. Attention to
M&E was not adequately provided for in project plans.
7.5       Government Implementation Performance.
"Persistent failure to address the counterpart funds shortage and install an effective M&E
system raises doubts about the commitment at central government level" (QAG, December 1999).
There were many instances of agreed action plans not being implemented. Commitment at the
14



central government level was also lacking in other areas, for example, with regard to the
decentralization of the agricultural research systern and the effective incorporation of the FSR
approach in the research and extension system.
7.6       Implementing Agency:
The management effectiveness of the Maputo-based implementing agencies has been
poor throughout the project. Financial management and disbursement systems were imperfect,
causing delays and limitations in fund distribution to the lower levels. Alternative extension
systems were not assessed. Adequate M&E systems were not established, and the impact studies
and a mid-term review were not done. The practice of producing progress reports was
discontinued. Actions agreed with the Bank were frequently not taken. These deficiencies were a
major constraint in project performance.
7. 7      Overall Borrower Performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated tnsatisfactory. Weaknesses in project preparation,
delayed and inadequate government funding, inadequate enforcement of rules on financial
management and use of public resources, poor implementation of the project, the absence of an
effective M&E system, failure to adhere to agreed action plans, and a general reluctance to
decentralize, make borrower performance unsatisfactory. It should be noted, to the credit of both the
Bank and the Borrower, that many of the lessons learned (see Section 8) were influential in the design
of the next project (PROAGRI).
8.    LESSONS LEARNED
General
i Technology development and dissemination can only be effective where an
enabling environment exists (infrastructure, viable input and output markets,
financial price incentives for farmers). Projects in research and extension should
be implemented in synchronization with the development of the other required
agricultural services.
Approaches to Research and Extension
* Decentralization of responsibilities and funding and deployment of senior research
staff to zonal research centers is necessary within the research/extension system to
install a farming systems perspective in on-station and on-farm researchers and
extensionists.
* The creation of effective polyvalent extensionists, who have internalized the
farming systems perspective, requires substantial training opportunities and must
rely on staff with higher levels of education.
* Advice on how to manage the inevitable trade-offs in farm-level management is
still scarce.
*  FMFI on-farm trials need to be prioritized to enable a sufficient level of new
extension messages.
* Effective FSR work cannot be implemented without substantial social science
input.
15



*  Without hard data oV impact at farm household level, obtained through
statistically reliable measurement of productivity levels, the cost-effectiveness of
research and extension cannot be established.
Supervision and Project Management
*  Support for human resource development and management training are necessary
but not sufficient conditions to generate commitment to efficient and effective
implementation of project activities. Performance incentives linked to evaluation
are necessary as is transparent and effective leadership.
*  There is a need to strike a balance between close, hands-on supervision by the
Bank and full Government responsibility; mutually agreed and objective criteria to
assess impact could contribute to this.
*  The performance rating in supervision reports needs to be more realistic and
objective.
*  Technical mid-term reviews are essential.
*  The Bank should consider stronger action, including suspension, in cases where
agreed action plans, central to the integrity of the project, are consistently ignored
by the Government.
*  The Bank must maintain its tough stance on corruption, and follow-up on
recommendations taken in these circumstances.
*  Particular attention must be paid to strengthening financial systems in project
design, particularly in the context of decentralization. This is not so much a matter
of improving the individuals' capacities through training, but of building checks
and balances within systems, in conjunction with overall efforts to improve
accountability, governance and democracy at local levels.
9. PARTNER COMMENTS
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(see Annex 8)
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
16



10.   ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Annex I
Key Performance Indicators
Appraisal      Actual
Number of farming families reached by extension service       140,000         40,000
No impact indicators were specified
Annex 2a
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Component (in US$ million Equivalent)
Project Component        Appraisal        Estimate at         Actual/ Latest     Percentage of
Estimate      Restructuring -         Estimate        Restructuring
1997                                 Estimate
Housing Civil Works            0.9                0.25                 0.26              103%
Building Rehabilitation        0.6                1.41                 0.67              47%
Rural Water Civil Works        1.6                0.06                 0.01              25%
Vehicles and Equipment         4.5                5.63                 3.66              66%
Consultant's Services         12.3                8.70                 7.55              87%
Credit                         9.6                  0                     0               0%
Incremental Salaries           5.5                3.86                 2.02              52%
Incremental Operating          4.0                2.56                 2.93             115%
Costs
PPF                                               1.13                 0.05               4%
Unallocated                                =      3.00                 0.49               16%
Total                         40.6               26.58                17.63              66%
Annex 2b
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ Million Equivalent)
Data not available
Expenditure Cateuories   Procurement Method Appraisal        Procurement Method Actual/Latest
Estimate                             Estimate
ICB     NCB    Other  Total    ICB          NCB  Other         Total
1. Works                                                          .60    .00      .10          .70
2. Goods                                       _                 1.50    .20      1.30        3.00
3. Services
4. Misc.             ==_ __                          == _
Total                   _______  _______1
17



Annex 2c
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component        Appraisal E timate         Actual/Latest Estimate        Percentage of Anpraisal
Bank Govern-    Co-    Bank Govern-            Co-       Bank Govern-         Co-
ment   financing          meat       financine           ment    financing
TOTAL 35.0  5.6        Nil        17.0  0.6       Nil             49%  It */
Note: NBF= Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel co-financing procedures, consultants
'under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items).
|The procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF.
Annex 3
Cost Benefit Analysis
(Indicate Currency, units and base year)
Basis for calculation at appraisal and restructuring not available; no impact data available
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis          Financial Analysis
Appraisal    Latest    Appraisal Latest Estimates
l______________  ____________ Estim ates
Benefits
Costs
Net Benefits   r
IRRJNPV
18



Annex 4a
Bank Inputs: Site Visits
Stage of Project Cycle         Month/Year       No. of Persons          Performance Ratings2
and Speciality'
Implementation      Development
Progress          Objectives
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Megotiations          July 1991      Ag, Res, Water,
Cr, Ec, O&M.
Supervision
March 1993    7Ag, Ext, Cr,              U                  S
Org, Fin
2             May 1993       Ag, Water,                S                  S
O&M
3            August 1993    Ag                         S                  S
4            March 1994    Ag (2), Ext                 S                  S
5             June 1994      Ec, Ag, M&E               S                  S
6           February 1995   AgEc, Env, Ec              S                  S
(2), Ag, Land,
Ext
7             June 1995      Ec, Ext, M&E,             S                  S
Water, Cr
8            October 1995    Ec, Ag, PSD,              S                  S
Ops
9           February 1996   Ec, Ag, PDS,               S                  S
Res
10             June 1996      Ec. Res(2),              S                  S
Land, Fin
11         November 1996   Ec, Res, Ext,              S                  S
Ops
12            June 1997       Ec, Res, Ext,            S                  S
Ops. Land
13          November 1997   Ec, AgEc, Ext,             S                  S
Ag, Res
14            April 1998     AgEc, Ext, Res,           S                  S
Land, Ag
15             June1998       AgEc, Ext. Res,          S                  S
Land, Ag
16          November 1998   AgEc, Eng. Ec,             S                  S
Ag
17             May 1999       AgEc, Ag, M&E            S                  S
18          November 1999   AgEc, Ag, Ext,       S (marginally)           S
Fin, Ops
19           February 2000    AgEc, Ag                 U                  U
ICR                            October 2000    Ec, Ag                   U                   U
19



Notes:
1. Key to specialized staff skills:
Ag   =      Agriculturalist/Ag. Services Specialist
AgEc =      Agricultural Economist
Res  =      Research Specialist
Water =     Water Supply Specialist
O&M =       Organization and Management Specialist
Ext  =      Extension Specialist
Env  =      Environment Specialist
Fin   =     Financial Analyst
Ec          Economist
PSD  =      Private Sector Development Specialist
Land =      Land use Specialist
Ops  =      Operations
Cr   =      Credit Specialist
M&E =    Monitoring & Evaluation
2. Key to status as shown on PSR/Supervision Form 590
Annex 4b
Bank Inputs: Staff *
Stage of Project Cycle          Actual/ Latest Estimates
Staff Weeks                              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                                                 181.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                      62.6
Supervision                                                                442.8
ICR                                                                        40.0
Total                                                                      727.1
Notes: * Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants; from FACT system up till end 1999
Annex 5
Ratings for Achievement of Objectives **/ Outputs by Components ***
Objectives/Outputs               Highly       Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     Highly          Not
_________________________ { Satisfactory     _   _  _  _   _                Unsatisfactory   Applicable
Macro Policies                                                                                   x
Sector Policies                                                    x
Physical                                                           x
Financial                                                          x
Institutional Development                         x(1)
Environmental                                                      x
Social:
Poverty Reduction                                       x
Gender                                                                     x
Other (Specify)
Private Sector Development                                                                       x
Public Sector Management                                           x
O0 ther   (Specify)__ _ _ _ _ _ _            __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Notes: ** Relates to the objectives specified in the SAR.
20



*** Relates to the outputs specified in the PAD.
(1) Marginally Satisfactory.
Annex 6
Ratings of Bank andl Borrower Performance
Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     Highly
Satisfactory                                 Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance:
Lending                   i                                     x
Supervision                                              _      x
Overall                   |                X_x
Borrower Performance:                                     _
Preparation                               I_ x
Government Implementation Performance    I_                     x
Implementing Agency                                             x
OveraU                                                          x
21



Annex 7
Additional Observations on Research and Extension
Summary
*  Resource-poor farmers do not adopt the complete 'packages' shown in conventional
demonstrations. The success story of the Sasakawa Global 2000 (SG2000) program
needs some qualification.
*  Most resource-poor farmers act rationally.
*  Research and extension need to move beyond variety testing and simple well-known
agronomic practices.
*  The multiplier effect can be strengthened through the selection of a limited number of
representative sites in the major zones of districts, where joint multi-sectoral activities
are implemented. The emphasis should be on quality of work rather than quantity of
activities.
*  The main bottleneck to participatory research and extension approaches is the lack of
competent facilitators with agricultural expertise.
*  It is essential to enhance the farmers' countervailing and bargaining power over
change agents.
*  High ratings for process indicators do not necessarily result into impact at farm level.
*  The T&V system mirrors the Bank's general approach to development. The
opportunity costs of not testing alternative approaches to extension need to be taken
into account.
*  Commitment of field-based staff cannot be sustained with 'disconnects' between levels
of funding at field and central level.
Details of Observations
Management and implementation capacity at the provincial and district levels, as well
as technical analytical capability (e.g., with regard to priority-setting for research and extension)
are inadequate. Taking into account that direct participation of farmers in priority-setting
exercises has not been realized yet, the danger of continuing top-down approaches and irrelevant
research and extension is high. The ASRDP did not pay adequate attention to technical
backstopping and this is a major challenge and risk for PROAGRI.
The supervision mission report of June 1998-asserted that INIA and DNER needed
managers who could establish a track-record of collaboration, dedication to quality and effective
leadership. Similarly, provincial teams need to become more pro-active in encouraging high-
performing field staff and take remedial actions with constantly low-performing staff(i.e., non-
renewal of contracts). 'Strengthening of local capacity' boils down to the commitment of
individuals to implement mutually agreed-upon tasks, and to be accountable for those tasks.
Effective and sustainable research and extension systems, regardless of the approaches used,
demand mechanisms to ensure that staff are accountable to their clients and financiers.
The FSR approach has still not achieved its main objective, i.e., to install a farming
systems perspective in on-station and on-farm researchers and extensionists. Whereas the
combination of high standards of crop husbandry and improved varieties, fertilizers and pesticides
gives the highest yields, it has become clear that resource-poor farmers often cannot adopt such
complete 'packages'. The external inputs (seeds, fertilizers and pesticides) are not (timely)
available and/or too expensive, and labour constraints in the peak periods of planting and weeding
22



make optimum crop husbandry (of more than one crop) impossible. Hitherto, research and
extension have provided little advice to resource-poor farmers on how to manage the inevitable
trade-offs in their compromised crop and farm system management. The crop husbandry of a
single crop is compromised because farmers also grow other crops and may be engaged in
livestock activities and off-farm work. As long as individual staff members think that the subject
of their field of expertise is the most important activity of farmers, adoption of improved farming
techniques will be minimal. Conflicting requirenments for (female) labour, for example, at the
planting time of cotton and maize, cannot be unclerstood without a clear cognition and
internalization of the farming systems perspective by researchers and extensionists.
In the SG2000 program, extensionists use demonstration plots to promote the use of
complete 'packages'. The supervision mission of October-November 1999 remarked that in the
fourth year of the SG2000 program in Gaza Province farmers still did not have a complete
understanding of the costs and benefits of their endeavours. Some of the conclusions in a study on
the SG2000 program in Nampula and Manica provinces are":
*  Substantial yield gains are possible through the use of improved inputs, but fine-
tuning recommendations to agro-ecological conditions is very important (the actual
amounts of N and P applied on all the SG2000 plots were 58 and 24 kg/ha, 4 bags of
fertilizer per ha).
*  The yields were highly variable, ranging from 0.5 - 4.9 tons/ha. The mean yield for
the sample (n=223) was 2.3 tons/ha, compared to provincial means of 0.4 - 1.3
tons/ha (no purchased inputs used).
*  Due to the high cost of inputs and low prices for maize, many DNER/SG farmers lost
money from the investment in maize technology.
*  DNER/SG is setting a dangerous precedent by not enforcing repayment of input loans
made to the farmers during 1996/97.
*  Creating a demand for purchased seed among smallholders has been difficult after
many years of free seed distribution.
These data indicate that the popularity of the SG2000 program with many research
and extension staff needs some qualification. The use of averages is tricky.
The basic assumption underlying most research and extension work in Mozambique
seems to be that resource-poor farmers ('the family sector') are irrational and have to be
'educated'. The continuing focus on planting in lines and recommended spacings is a case in
point. Planting in lines only becomes relevant when weeding by oxen is an option. Resource-poor
farmers cultivating soils with low fertility in areas with unpredictable rainfall, and without access
to fertilizers and irrigation, do wise to keep plant populations low. Likewise, the traditional
inter/mixed cropping systems do make sense under their production conditions.
Farmers and extensionists were uncertain about the difference between
demonstrations and on-farm trials (supervision mission report, June 1998). In some supervision
reports no distinction is made between demonstrations and on-station and on-farm trials. Only
FMFI on-farm trials encompass the farming systems perspective of farmers, for example, with
regard to the most limiting production factor, (female) labour. Only after new farming techniques
have passed the stage of FMFI on-farm trials (still a research activity), these techniques can enter
the next phase of demonstrations (an extension activity). Under ASRDP on-station research has
Howard J.A.. J.J. Jeje, D. Tschirley, P. Strasberg, E.W. Crawford, M.T. Weber (1998). What makes
agricultural intensification profitable for Mozambican smallholders? An appraisal of the Inputs Subsector and
the 1996/97 DNER/SG2000 Program. MSU International Development Working Paper No.69, 1998.
Michigan State University, Michigan, USA.
23



not moved far in the direction of more client-orientation and few FMFI on-farm trials have
been implemented. These challenges, therefore, remain to be met under PROAGRI.
Research needs to move beyond variety testing and simple agronomic topics. Instead
it could develop conservation farming techniques aiming at timely land preparation in order to be
ready for planting at the very moment that the rains start. Enhanced soil moisture availability and
early planting, in combination with short-duration and drought-tolerant varieties, can increase the
scope for drought mitigation. Conservation farming techniques incorporate early planting, rainfall
conservation, early weeding and early fertilizer application. Integrated Soil Fertility Management
(ISFM) is another important topic. It is impossible to give specific recommendations for each
farm-household. It is the task of extension workers, in collaboration with farmers and researchers,
to fine-tune general guidelines to the specific set of bio-physical and socio-economic conditions
encountered on different farms. Since farmers are the experts on local ecological and socio-
economic conditions, they play a pivotal role in the development of sustainable farming systems.
The location-specific and dynamic nature of farming systems makes 'blue-print' and 'blanket'
recommendations ineffective. In a context of still abundant land and relative shortages of (female)
labour and capital, interventions which aim at animal-power based technology (emphasizing
ploughing, weeding and transport) and at increased efficiency of fertilizer use (leading to low
application rates) are attractive to farmers. Although several of these issues were mentioned in the
SAR, little has been implemented.
Various supervision missions recommended to increase extension coverage by having
more villages per FEW in order to enhance farmer-to-farmer diffusion. In addition to the obvious
transport problems, expansion of project coverage stretches the still weak implementation
capacity. The question is then how research and extension can have a (direct or indirect) impact
on large numbers of rural households in a cost-effective way? In one way or another the multiplier
effect must be strengthened. Farmer-to-farmer (peer) extension is the most effective extension
strategy conceivable; therefore optimum use must be made of this available hands-on experience.
The FFS approach is based on peer facilitators and hands-on experience. Shortcuts to progress,
however, do not exist. Also the FFS approach is no 'cure all' for extension problems, but at least
the potential of impact is there. The first thing to do is to demonstrate actual impact at some sites
or villages. In order to promote co-ordination and co-operation between research, extension, input
supply, credit, produce buyers and other stakeholders, a limited number of representative sites in
the major zones of a district can be selected for implementation of joint multi-sectoral activities.
Synergy will emerge and impact and cost-effectiveness will be enhanced. The zonation must be
based on agro-ecological and socio-economic criteria. When impact is achieved at the initially
selected sites, neighbouring farmers in the same zone will become interested and motivated to
facilitate their own development. More pro-active attitudes will develop and the multiplier effect
be strengthened. A process of continuing decentralization towards village level would
complement the above process of multi-sectoral activities at representative sites. True
participation of the target group in planning and implementation demands devolving of power,
responsibilities and financial resources to the farmers. The (re)-prioritization of technically sound
activities (a collaborative effort of farmers and change agents) and the selection of representative
sites demand adequate analytical capability, since underlying sound argumentation must be
provided to make the decisions transparent. If existing analytical capability is not sufficient,
outside expertise must be hired. The emphasis should be on quality of plans of work rather than
quantity of activities.
The above demands, among other things, a well-focused, integrated research program
aiming at a few, clearly defined major farm-level constraints that research can actually do
something about. Only a critical mass of researchers on a limited number of priority activities can
result into impact (briefing note on the agricultural research sub-component of PROAGRI, 28-1 1-
1997).
24



Since the late 1 980s, decentralisation of the strongly centralised INIA structure
has been a point of discussion, but until today no action has been taken. From all the scientists at
the various research institutes 75% reside in Maputo and the ones posted in the field are mainly
junior staff. Recently MADER undertook another feasibility study aiming at institutional reform
of the agricultural research system under the PROAGRI umbrella. This study speaks of "the
inadequate level of political will and commitment to change the status quo in the system". It is
evident that without long-term field experience and frequent contact with resource-poor farmers
no effective research capability can be built up. Financial and other incentives to move to the
Zonal Research Centres, linked to performance evaluation, must be put in place. The ASRDP did
not emphasize the urgent need for decentralisation.
Before the time of appraisal, more participatory approaches to research and extension
were evolving, for example, Participatory Technology Development (PTD) and the Farmer Field
School (FFS) methodology. These approaches ernphasise empowerment of farmers to analyze and
find their own solutions with assistance from outside facilitators. However, the attitudinal change
required for efficient and effective implementation of such approaches does not come easily.
Deeply engrained, top-down oriented 'teacher' attitudes must evolve into a role as facilitator of
learning processes. Extensionists who operate under a unified extension system and are supposed
to adopt the FFS approach should not only be technically competent in food and cash crops and
livestock, but they must also adopt the facilitator role and advance linkages between farmers'
groups, input suppliers, produce buyers and credit agents. Individuals with technical farming
expertise as well as communication, facilitation and mobilisation skills are a rare breed. It is
unrealistic to expect that short training courses will develop this variety of skills.
Sub-contracting of extension puts high demands on the DPAs in terms of quality of
supervision and capacity to 'coach' field implementation (supervision mission report, June 1998).
Hitherto this capacity is not available. Ultimately, farmers themselves will have to pay for
extension services. This is the best guarantee for quality control, since farmers will then have
countervailing power over extension staff. Local NGOs do have a local organizational structure
and rural presence, which is important to generate such countervailing power, especially with
rural women. CLUSA, an American NGO, is active in this field in Nampula Province. Especially
the higher-level association 'forums' with a critical mass of members can cost-share extension
services. The majority of the farmers, however, are not yet in such a position. Cost-recovery from
resource-poor farmers will be difficult as long as the credibility of the extension service is low.
Some of the guiding principles under PROAGRI are decentralisation and farmer
empowerment. The government's commitment to actually implement decentralisation policies and
to provide an enabling environment, in which research and extension can make a difference, is
paramount. Empowerment of farmer organizations and lower levels of government to pull in
research and extension services in accordance with their priorities demands decentralisation of
power and finances. The farmers' bargaining power over rural stockists and buying agents must
be enhanced.
In the supervision mission report of October-November 1998 a distinction is made
between impact indicators and process indicators. Process indicators refer to the number of farmer
groups formed, number of staff trained, number of research stations rehabilitated, number of crop
demonstrations and on-farm trials established per season, number of technological messages being
disseminated, etc. Impact indicators are, e.g., crop yields and quantity of marketable produce.
High ratings for process indicators do not necessarily result into impact at farm level. The actual
adoption rates by farmers participating in project activities and by neighbouring non-participating
farmers, and actual gains in yields, need to be established. Reporting which concentrates on
process indicators (monitoring) tends to overlook the appropriateness of the technical content of
research and extension activities (evaluation).
25



Local staff needs to 'own' problems and solutions. Limited project ownership
resulted in reduced commitment to implement activities. In a similar way as extensionists are
asked to become facilitators instead of teachers, supervision missions must adopt a facilitating
instead of supervising role. The transformation of re-active into pro-active attitudes with both
donor and local govemment staff does not come easily and requires explicit attention. The Bank
needs to allocate more funds to technical backstopping in 'facilitating missions', preferably by the
same individuals to guarantee continuity and impact. For the components agricultural research
and extension sufficient time in the field and adequate timing of facilitating missions is
paramount, i.e., in the agricultural season.
The supervision mission report of February-March 2000 says: "The issue of poor
accountability has allowed for mismanagement of funds at central (project management unit) and
provincial levels (in Nampula and in Inhambane). In the North, the mission was very concerned
with the flow of funds after widespread complaints at the provincial level regarding the
unavailability of IDA funds. Even more worrisome is the fact that the project unit staff and the
component managers at the central level refuted these assertions and confirmed that funds are
flowing regularly to the province. This disconnect regarding the channelling of funds through the
PROAGRI umbrella could be an indication of serious underlying deficiencies which are not being
addressed". The ICR mission met during field visits a few enthusiastic and committed individuals.
They complained bitterly about the unavailability of funds to buy a single computer, to order
some literature on relevant topics, to train extensionists and farmers (investments in the order of
$1,000). Taking into consideration the considerable sum of money not disbursed at the end of the
project and the disproportionately high central-level costs, this situation is clearly unacceptable.
Commitment to the job of field-based staff cannot be sustained with such 'disconnects'.
26



Annex 8
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
ECONOMICS DIRECTORATE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION PROJECT
(AGR.SER.REHAB.)
(Credit 2337-MOZ)
Implementation Completion Report
Maputo, December 2000
27



BACKGROUND
The successive crises that beset the Mozambican economy in the 1970's and to the end of
the 1980's-marked by a decline in GDP that sunk in 1985 to US$30.00 per capita (around 4.4%
of the average in Sub-Saharan Africa), and by cumulative deficits in internal and external
accounts-had a significant negative impact on the performance of the agricultural sector, with a
sharp drop in the production and marketing of farm products.
Over and above the impact of exogenous factors, such as the war and natural disasters, the
difficulties in the sector were linked to the existence of a weak physical, economic, and social
infrastructure. Until the end of the 1980's, the feeble performance of the agricultural sector was
also due to the practice of a system of price controls and concentration of government investment
in large-cap corporations. Scant attention was paid to the development of infrastructure to provide
basic services to private family producers.
In 1986, with assistance from the World Bank (IDA), studies were done for the cashew,
cotton, irrigation, and forest agricultural subsectors. The recommendations of these studies were
the basis for the agreement with IDA to provide assistance for the development of the cashew,
cotton, and irrigation subsectors, and to develop agricultural institutions and services. In this
context it was agreed to implement a project for agricultural services rehabilitation in the cotton-
producing areas, whose preparation was begun in 1990.
In keeping with the principles and objectives of the reforms introduced with the start of
the application of the Economic Rehabilitation Program (PRE), the government decided in 1989
to privatize the cotton industry, and signed a "protocol of intent" with three private companies for
the establishment of joint venture companies (JVC) in the major cotton-producing areas in the
provinces of Nampula and Cape Delgado. The establishment of joint venture companies was seen
as a way of stimulating the availability of investment capital and management ability needed to
rehabilitate the state companies and cotton gins, and to establish a system to supply necessary
materials and market the cotton for most producers in the area covered by the JVCs.
The project was therefore designed in the framework of a strategy of sustainable
stimulation of agricultural production based on the use of the cotton subsector as a source of
assistance to the family sector, which grows food crops as well as cotton.
The program for development of the agricultural sector was to include the upgrading of
basic agricultural services, such as extension and research, the granting of credit to farmers and
merchants for the inputs and marketing of the product, improvement of infrastructure to supply
water to the rural area, land use management, and institutional strengthening.
The project was approved in January of 1992, and the loan agreement was signed in
March of 1992. The project was effective in December 1993, and its closing was set for December
31, 2000. Total costs of the project were estimated at US$40,600,000, with about US$35,000,000
of IDA financing.
1.  ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
1.1    Original Objective.
The principal development objective of the project was to promote an increase in the
production and yields of food crops and cotton cultivated by the family sector, through
rehabilitation and development of effective agricultural services and strengthening of the
institutional capacity. The project was also intended to support government efforts to reform
28



policies, particularly as regards the system of prices and marketing, and was to contribute to
supporting government efforts to carry out studies and research that would strengthen
management capability and decision-making in the agricultural sector.
The project was to be implemented in Nampula and Cape Delgado provinces, where the
government had begun to rehabilitate the cotton industry with the support of the private sector. It
would gradually cover 12 districts: Monapo, Ribaue, Montepuez, Namapa, Mecuburi, Balama,
Namuno, Memba, Muecate, Erati, Ancuabe, and Chiure. Selection of these districts was based
primarily on the Program of Priority Districts, which the government had drawn up for the
purpose of reviving the economy. Inclusion of other nearby districts with a high concentration of
family farms was to be considered if the government reached agreement on the matter with the
IDA.
1.2    Revised Objective:
The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended twice during the course of the
project. The first amendment (March 1995) merely introduced some adjustments in the conditions
for disbursement of funds.
In late 1996, in the context of restructuring its project portfolio, the World Bank decided
to cancel the Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project (PRDA-Credit 2175),
transferring the extension, research, and increase of cashew production to the Agricultural
Services Rehabilitation Project (ASRP).
This restructuring, approved by the World Bank in June of 1997, included the
modification of the loan agreement for the ASRP to re-channel resources and for activities and
components accorded high priority for the development of the sector strategy, which would have
continuity in the context of the National Program for Agricultural Investment (PROAGRI), which
was being developed. After its restructuring, the ASRP came to be national in scope, integrating
activities that the earlier program had carried out in Gaza and Inhambane provinces.
1.3    Original Components:
To achieve its objectives, the project was to provide improved agricultural services in the
areas of extension and-applied research; credit for operating expenses and investment for
agricultural production and marketing; facilities for rural water supply; services related to land use
and land management; and institutional development, including training for employees of the
Ministry of Agriculture.
Extension
The component was to support the development of rural extension networks of the
Ministry of Agriculture, which are in the process of organization, with a view to stimulating
increased production by the farmers in the project area. The extension services were to be
provided to groups of farmers regardless of what they were growing. The cost of this component
was estimated at US$10,800,000, which represents about 26% of the total cost of the project. The
following activities were included:
(i)    Recruitment and training of field extension agents at an annual average of 30 during the
first six years of the project. The extension agents as a general rule should serve about 800
families;
(ii).   The recruitment of agricultural technicians and graduates as candidates for subject matter
specialists to produce messages based on available technologies that are suitable for the
family sector and for the execution of the test program in the fields for growing food crops
and cotton;
29



(iii).  Making special agreements with the joint venture companies (JVCs) in the area so
that they would expand their extension activities for cotton growing in order to cover one
or two districts, and all crops relevant to the area. The dissemination of technological
messages by the selected JVC was to be for all farmers, whether they raise cotton or not.
These services would be monitored and evaluated with a view to assessing the efficiency
and relative effectiveness of the experiment;
(iv).  Rehabilitation of the Agricultural Training Center in Namialo, which was to be a center for
basic training of extension personnel at all levels. The Center was also to develop, test,
and implement training courses for community leaders and groups of farmers, who were
to assume increasing responsibility in organizing production of the family sector, and with
a view to satisfying the need for credit.
Research
The research component was directed to the establishment of some capability for
improvement of cotton, production and conservation of seeds, production of food crops,
integrated pest management, and improvement of existing farming practices. The cost of the
component was estimated at US$4,800,000, which represents about 12% of the total cost of the
project. The following activities were to be included:
(i).    Research on food crops for the purpose of developing improved production technology for
crops such as cassava, sweet potatoes, corn, mapira, mexoeira, beans, and other
vegetables grown together with or alternately with cotton, in order to adapt the
technologies to the needs of the family sector in the project area;
(ii).   Completion of long-range agronomic studies on soil and water conservation, soil fertility,
and economic aspects of family sector production;
(iii).  Updating and development of the program for improvement of cotton cultivation, with a
view to developing local strains that are high-yield and pest resistant;
(iv)   Development of practices for integrated pest control, using varieties that are insect
resistant, controlled use of chemicals, methods of biological control, predators, crop
rotation, etc., to make it possible to control pests at an acceptable cost, without damage to
the environment;
(v).   Expansion of the research program on production systems, with a view to improvement of
the family farmer's practices in the cotton growing areas. This activity was to be carried
out by multi-disciplinary teams of agronomists, economists, and sociologists;
(vi).  Training at the graduate level in the various fields related to development of a research
system.
Credit
The credit component was designed to provide credit for the family sector to purchase
agricultural inputs such as improved seeds, fertilizer, insecticide, and equipment, on the basis of
organization in credit groups. Another target group of this component was the rural merchants,
who would have access to credit on an individual basis. The cost of the component was estimated
at US$10,900,000, or 27% of the total cost of the project, of which US$8,100,000 would be for a
revolving fund for working capital credits for farmer groups and rural merchants, US$1,500,000
would be coparticipation with the beneficiaries, and the remaining US$1,300,000 would be
devoted to the strengthening of credit institutions and personnel training.
Improvement of the Rural Water Supply
Since there was already a rural water supply program underway in Cape Delgado, funded
by the Swiss government, it was decided that actions in this area would focus on Nampula
30



province. The cost of the activities designed in this component was estimated at
US$4,400,000., which was  11% of the total cost of the project, for financing activities involving:
(i).   Completion by PRONAR of an Inventory of the Rural Water Supply Infrastructure, which
was to include the location, condition, operating and maintenance system, and needs, if
any, for rehabilitation;
(ii).   Completion of a Study on Operation and Maintenance, based on the inventory done and a
Survey of Community Involvement in Operation and Maintenance. These studies were to
help to define measures for establishment of an improved and decentralized operation and
maintenance system for the rural water supply infrastructure;
(iii).  Implementation of a program for rehabilitation of existing sources and construction of
new sources, designed in consultation with the users, the provincial government, and the
Ministry of Construction and Water.
Land Use and Management
The principal objective set for the Land Use and Management component involved
development of a socio-economically acceptable technical basis for improving land use and
management. To this end, activities were to be carried out for aerial photography with on-the-
ground verification, topographic mapping, collection of socio-economic data as well as agronomic
and land use data; evaluation of the soil conservation requirements and drawing up packages for
soil conservation. The cost of the component was estimated at US$2,500,000, or 6% of the total
cost of the project.
Institutional Development
In the component of Institutional Development provision was made for the costs of the
effort required to improve the capability for management, programming, and planning, accounting
control, procurement, price policy analysis, and monitoring and evaluation of the implementation
of the project activities. In addition to the technical assistance needed to strengthen the Unit for
Development of Activities (UDA), to be established at the central level for coordination of project
implementation and provincial level coordination, the institutional development component was
to include financing of training in Mozambique arnd abroad. The total cost of the component was
estimated at US$5,800,000, or 14% of the total project cost.
1.4    Revised Components:
As noted above, the loan agreement for the project (DCA) was amended twice. The last
amendment (June 1997) introduced some adjustments in the project activities and incorporated the
activities previously covered by the Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
(PRDA). The restructuring of the project included:
(i).   Cancellation of the credit component. In its place the project took up support of a pilot
training program for farmers and communities through NGOs or other institutions, with a
view to affording the family sector access to formal credit;
(ii).   Financing of studies and research that were originally included under the research
component of the PRDA, including implementation of the National Cashew Research
Program, establishment of cashew nurseries, including the rehabilitation of infrastructure,
support for strengthening the management of nurseries, and for reproduction of quality
trees;
(iii)   Support for activities undertaken in the context of the Office for Restructuring of
Agricultural and Fishery Companies (GREAP), which was established to replace the
UREA.
31



1.5    Quality at Entry.
The main objective of the project was to support the government's efforts to promote an
increase in production and income for the family sector through the provision of agricultural
services and credit. The area chosen for this effort took into account activities underway or
planned for investment by the private sector, which were to contribute to the creation of
complementary conditions so that the objective could be attained.
The design of the project sought to anticipate the various aspects that could pose
difficulties or barriers to its execution, such as the security situation and the lack of experience
and weak capability of the institutions involved in implementation of the project components, as
well as the lack of funds in the government budget and delays in their availability. For this reason,
the various components of the project included financing for national and foreign technical
assistance and training of local personnel. The project also envisioned training for those
coordinating its implementation, with support for the development of financial control systems,
information management, planning, and evaluation. The project may therefore be considered
appropriate for the conditions prevailing in the country in 1991/92.
In terms of size, the PRSDA was designed as an integrated project with several
components (Extension, Research, Land Use, Credit, and Rural Water). This multi-faceted nature
made it possible to pursue an integrated approach to the various aspects involved in development
of effective agricultural services. However, the inclusion of components whose execution was
outside the agricultural sector-specifically, credit and rural water-was seen as having posed an
additional difficulty for the execution of the project.
2.  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
2.1    Outcome/achievement of objectives.
Achievement of the project objectives should be evaluated in terms of their effect on
increasing productivity, output, and income for the farmers, particularly in the zone served.
Although in general terms agricultural output has grown appreciably since the start of the project,
we do not have evidence to demonstrate the degree to which the increase in production is due to
the improvement of agricultural services, especially extension. (The increase in agricultural
output experienced in the country has been credited primarily to the effect of stable andfavorable
weather conditions, which permitted an increase in areas under cultivation and higher levels of
productivity). There is no reliable data on the rate of adoption and replication of new techniques.
While the project was in operation, there was no monitoring system that would permit the
socio-economic assessment of the effectiveness of the use of technological messages.
It is therefore impossible to do an evaluation based on systematic and reliable data on the project's
impact in terms of its principal development objective, which is an increase in output and income.
According to the conclusions of the Joint Assessment of the Beneficiaries, done in 1998, only one
person surveyed saw access to the government extension network as a means of increasing
monetary income, and only 12 percent said they had placed more products on the market because
of heeding the messages transmitted by the extension service.
Implementation of the project experienced varying results according to the component,
and some components had better performance than others. In general, one of the positive aspects
of the project was the provision of financial and technical assistance, which contributed to
guaranteeing the execution of various activities, such as training and equipping of the extension
networks and activities in the area of applied research. This may be responsible for consolidating
these services and making them work better.
It may therefore be considered that the project partially achieved its objectives.
32



2.2    Outputs by components:
Extension
Activities carried out in the extension component consisted of training and preparing
extension agents and establishment or revitalizing of extension networks in the selected districts.
In this context extension networks were established through recruitment and training of extension
agents or building on existing networks that were not part of the government's extension service.
The following table shows the networks of Cape Delgado and Nampula, with a total of 224
extension agents:
Table 1: Extension Networks in Cape Delgado and Nampula
Province          District         Number
Nampula
Nampula          7
Mecuburi         19
Muecate          16
Ribaue           26
Lalaua           17
Erati/Namapa    22
Monapo           17
Cape Delgado
Montepuez        24
Namuno           17
Chiure           24
Mueda            32
TOTAL                              224
In support of this process, there was a partial rehabilitation and equipping of the Agrarian
Training Center in Namialo, to enable it to offer pre-admission courses and recycling of extension
agents, and for other training activities involved in extension programs at various levels, in
subjects that would ensure the multi-disciplinary nature of the extension service.
The extension system was designed using the Training and Visits method (T&V), with the
target population of farmers organized in groups, coordinated by a contact farmer. In addition to
visits, the methods employed by the extension agents included the use of Result Demonstration
Plots (CDRs) and field days. The messages transmitted dealt primarily with seeds (selection,
density, spacing), affiliation, and pest control.
Development of the system of monitoring and evaluation failed to attain the desired level
that would permit systematic collection of data on income, production levels, and rates of
adoption of technologies by the farmers helped, which would have made it possible to have a
reliable assessment of the impact of the extension services.
The Joint Assessment of the Beneficiaries indicates that 86% of the farmers surveyed
stated that they had applied what they were taught by the extension agent. One of the principal
shortcomings noted in the operation of the extension networks was the low level of coverage in
terms of the number of farmers reached. It was estimated that on average each extension agent
(Cape Delgado and Nampula) worked with 180 farmers instead of the 400 considered as a
minimum needed to make the service economically viable. This situation came about because
many of the extension agents concentrated their attention on a reduced number of communities
who registered a high percentage of farmers with direct contact with the agent. The distances
between communities and the time needed to reach the farmers' clearings were cited as some of
33



the obstacles to increasing the number of villages covered and reducing the number of groups
of farmers that maintained direct contact.
Another weakness that affected the effectiveness of the extension system was the limited
availability of technological messages. The messages transmitted by the extension agents were
repeated throughout two years. A principal cause of this situation was the fact that the placement
of subject matter specialists did not occur. The few active specialists were based in the provincial
capitals, where it was hard to make a continuous diagnosis of the production system, identify the
appropriate technological messages, and train the field personnel to ensure linkage between
extension and research. One way that was found to minimize the lack of subject matter specialists
in the field was the organization of annual meetings of extension and research personnel to
discuss the program for the next year (REPETEs).
During the course of the project attempts were made to contract one of the joint venture
companies (JVCs) to provide extension services in one of the districts under a contract with the
government, in order to evaluate the comparative efficiency of having extension service provided
by the state and by the private sector. However, although bids were invited for this purpose, it
was not possible to reach a satisfactory arrangement, and the idea was scrapped. In the final years
of the project work was begun on a study of the legal and institutional machinery that could
enable the private sector to take part in extension activities (out-sourcing).
After the PRDA project was cancelled in 1996, some time passed before it was possible to
obtain funding for the extension networks in the provinces of Gaza and Inhambane through the
PRDSA. This situation was more critical in Inhambane province, where organizational problems
gave rise to additional delays. As a result of the delays in payment of their salaries and provision
of financial resources for operating expenses, nearly half of the extension agents quit the
networks, seeking jobs in the private sector. In order to reactivate the networks, it was necessary
to engage in fresh training and recruitment in mid-1998.
In addition to the flight of the extension agents, there was a process of restructuring,
which included closure of some of the networks, which was a stipulation of the creditor for
resumption of funding for the operations in Gaza and Inhambane.
In mid-2000 the activity of the extension networks financed by the PRDSA in the
southern zone encompassed 6 districts and 85 extension agents, who were distributed as shown in
the following table. This coverage is significantly less than that obtained from Credit 2175 in
1995, which covered 8 districts in Inhambane province and 5 in Gaza province, with a total of 127
extension agents
Table 2: Extension Networks in Inhambane and Gaza
Province          District       Number
Inhambane
Massinga                 17
Morrumbene                9
Panda                    10
Homoine                   9
Gaza
Chibuto                  20
Manjacaze                20
l TOTAL                                     85
34



In general we could consider that the extension component partially met its
objectives in terms of training and installation of the extension networks and contributed to the
strengthening of the institutional capability of the Ministry of Agriculture in terms of management
and development of extension services. However, the lack of reliable data on the impact on
productivity and output of the farmers, and the problems that the networks encountered in
fulfilling their potential, makes it more difficult to evaluate the contribution of the extension
services for attaining the project's development objectives.
Research
In the area of the research component, actions were undertaken with a view to establishing
a research capability for improvement of cotton and food crops, and pest control. To that end the
project contracted specialists in the development oi cotton, pest control, linkage of extension and
research (ERLO),. and managers for the Center for Research and Reproduction of Cottonseeds in
Namialo (CIMSAN), and the Agronomics Post in Nampula (PAN).
The project made it possible to develop the capability for carrying out quality research in
the various programmed fields. The principal gap in the research program is the weakness of the
linkages and interaction with extension, the farmers, and other clients of the system for
development and dissemination of technology. Most of the on-station tests done were related to
multi-local, national, and international programs not directly related to solving the priority
problems of the local farmers.
Many tests of local strains were done for several years without simultaneous on-farm
replication. As noted above, this situation is related to the fact that at the level of the extension
system it was not possible to recruit subject matter specialists (SMS) who were to be the principal
persons responsible for listening to the farmers and transmitting their concerns to the researchers.
Lack of implementation of the credit component is considered to be one of the limiting
factors in the attainment of the objectives of the research and extension, because much of the
technology that could have made a difference for the family sector demands the use of improved
inputs (improved seeds, fertilizer, pesticide), to which farmers lack access in the present
circumstances.
The Agricultural Research Strategy, developed by a working group composed of the
directors of the four institutions engaged in agrarian research (including livestock, animal health,
vegetables, and forests) approved in March of 1996, has as one of its main elements the
establishment of multidisciplinary Farming Systerns Research Teams, as a means for getting rapid
results of the research findings. The project supported the contracting for technical assistance for
establishing a pilot team at the Nampula Agronorrmics Post (PAN).
Rehabilitation and construction of physical infrastructure at the Nampula and Namialo research
centers constituted one of the major costs of this component. Rehabilitation was started in the
installations at both centers. However, the work done was not of acceptable quality. At the
CIMSAN the builder abandoned the job before its completion.
Training is one area in which the objectives set for this component were not attained. The
project was intended to offer a means for expanding the capability for research and training
(formal and in-service) of researchers. However, (luring the course of the project there was no
formal training.
In view of the facts outlined above, the overall assessment of the achievement of the research
component of the objectives must be termed unsatisfactory.
Credit
35



The credit component was one of the most important ones in the project in terms of
resource allocation (27%) and its objective-provision of credit to the family sector of small
private producers and rural merchants. It would have contributed to the attainment of the
development objective of the project, minimizing some of the constraints noted at the outset (lack
of resources for purchase of inputs, improved seeds, agro-chemicals) and subsequently (problems
of marketing the crop). The component failed to meet its objectives, having been cancelled before
any credit was granted. Granting credit to the family sector was from the outset a complex
objective, especially since it was hoped to carry out this activity through the formal banking
sector.
With considerable delay, the procedures for giving effect to this component were put in
place for disbursements under this heading: the Reallocation Agreement between the Ministry of
Planning and Finance and the Bank of Mozambique, and the Participation Agreement between the
Bank of Mozambique and the Popular Development Bank. Activities carried out included
contracting of a rural credit specialist to give technical assistance to the Popular Development
Bank and a specialist in farmer organization to vitalize the study of the forms of organization of
the farmers and evaluate possible systems of grouping them to become eligible for bank credit.
The Popular Development Bank trained loan officers in some areas, prepared loan guidelines, and
its branch in Monapo gave some loans with its own funds to the target group of the component.
Establishment of conditions that would qualify farmers for formal credit, through the use
of forms of organization in which local leaders and judges could stand in stead of real collateral
that would be need for access to credit, turned out to be a slow process. For their part, the small
merchants and private producers, who made up another potential group of beneficiaries of credit,
also confronted the problem of lack of real collateral. For these reasons, it was decided to cancel
the component.
Consideration was given to the possibility of involving nongovernmental organizations in
the process of organizing farmers to get credit and related services under the institutional
development component. By the end of the project, nothing was done in this area.
The inability to carry out the credit component is considered one of the main failures of the
project because, as noted, it was thought that its operation would have contributed to the
attainment of the project's development objectives. The design of the component, which relied
heavily on use of the banking system and the application of creditworthiness standards similar to
those of commercial banking, did not fulfill the expectations generated for easy credit that would
permit family producers and small merchants to cope with the scarcity of capital caused by the
war.
Rural Water
The rural water supply component failed to achieve the objectives because it was not able
to start the rehabilitation or construction of water sources. In order to permit the gathering of data
for drawing up a program for improvement of the water supply in Nampula province, the project
financed a survey of the province's water supply infrastructure. When the survey was completed,
the project supported a community education program (PEC) for the purpose of promoting public
awareness of the need for conservation and maintenance, and to encourage people to share in the
work of maintaining the water sources. The work undertaken in the context of the community
education program was to permit identification of priority sites for rehabilitation and/or
construction of water points. Difficulties encountered in the implementation of this component,
especially in carrying out the operation and maintenance study, made it impossible to start work
on rehabilitation and construction of new water sources. Subsequently the component was
cancelled and transferred to another program financed by the IDA with a strong water supply
36



component, the Rural Rehabilitation Program, coordinated by the then-existing National
Rural Development Institute (INDER).
Land Use Management
Implementation of this component involved collection and analysis of data on land use
and ownership in the provinces of Nampula and Cape Delgado, as well as a soil survey in some
areas. These elements were to serve as a basis for some activities to be undertaken in other
components, such as the credit component, for which it was important to have proper titles for
family farms, and the research component, for which more knowledge of the soil was needed for
the test plots in the environs of the research centers and in the farmers' clearings. The principal
activities were:
*  Aerial photography of the Cape Delgado area, training in aerial photointerpretation, mapping
methodology, and updating of aerial photographs;
*  Conduct of a socio-economic survey in Monapo district, for which a specialist in land use and
a senior agronomist were contracted. The objective of the socio-economic survey was to
evaluate land tenure systems in the district, particularly land occupation by the family sector,
including the size of the family farms, distance, ownership  systems, and means of
conveyance;
*  On-the-ground familiarization study and collection of soil samples in some areas covered by
the project, for which a soils expert was contracted.
*  Geodesic work in Monapo district needed to delineate the boundaries of the 135 communities
identified in the socio-economic survey;
-  Implementation of a pilot exercise for drawing community boundaries in Upper Molocue for
the purpose of combining and testing two methnodologies (aerial photography and satellite
imaging).
The project also provided support for the Inter-Ministerial Commission for Revision of Land
Legislation.
Achievement of the objectives of the land use and management component can be considered
partially satisfactory.
Institutional Development
The institutional development component encompassed activities involving: (i)
coordination of project implementation; (ii) policy analysis; and (iii) training.
In the area of coordination of project implementation an Activities Implementation Unit
(UDA) was established at the central level by contracting national technicians. The UDA was
responsible for coordination and programming o f activities, financial control and accounting,
procurement, monitoring, and evaluation of project activities. At the provincial level, provincial
coordinators were contracted and given training in accounting control.
The UDA coordinated a socio-economic study in Monapo, Ribaud, and Montepuez (Bench Mark
Field Survey) and an analysis of cotton prices and family income in the same areas, with a view
to establishing a reference database.
The project contributed to strengthening the capability for policy analysis in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries, through financing for technical assistance to the Agricultural
Economics Office in the areas of policy analysis, planning, and budgeting. This capability was an
important contribution to the process of drawing up the National Agricultural Development
Program (PROAGRI).
37



The principal gap noted in the institutional development component is related to the
training program. As a matter of fact, in the eight years during which the project was
implemented, contrary to expectations there was no long-term training whatsoever. The training
activities carried out in the scope of the project were short-term courses and study visits, which
feel far short of what it would have been possible to accomplish.
The principal cause of the poor performance of the programmed activities in this area is
the lack of clarity and changes in criteria on the part of the funding organization on the kind of
training that it would be willing to consider for funding. As a result, most of the proposals
presented by the various project components were not approved. The funding organization
decided not to undertake a long-term training program because there was no training program
clearly based on a perspective of institutional development and human resources in the
agricultural sector and the specific components.
2.3   Institutional development impact:
Although the prevailing conditions in the sector during the project's run made it difficult
to quantify its impact in terms of achievement of development objectives, there was nevertheless a
significant contribution by the project to strengthening the capability of various participating
institutions at different levels, especially in the areas of developing the capacity to organize and
manage extension networks and the system of applied research, through funding of activities and
technical assistance.
As noted above, the project contributed to the process of drawing up the PROGRI by
strengthening the DEA in the area of policy analysis, planning, and budgeting, and subsequently
to the general coordination of PROAGRI, and to the process of reviewing land laws. With the
end of the project the capability established in the areas of accounting control and procurement for
the project was integrated in the Office of Administration and Finance of the MADER, which will
continue to strengthen this area with a view to implementation of the PROAGRI.
3. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION
AND OUTCOME
3.1   Factors Generally Outside the Control of Government or implementing agency:
It is generally felt that project implementation was adversely affected by the excessive
centralization of decision-making on the activities in the World Bank (Task Manager), which in
practice meant that the project was being managed from Washington, D.C. This situation, together
with delays in responses, and frequent requests for additional justification for requests to authorize
disbursement of programmed expenses, contributed to many activities being delayed or not done.
3.2   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control:
Budgetary problems related with the lack of availability of funds for the government
counterpart affected the daily operation of the project, especially in the initial phase. The lack of
funds and the system then in force also caused delays in the process of importing equipment and
material. These situations were responsible for significant delays in the execution of the programs.
The process of approval of contracts for services by the Ministry of Planning and Finance
was also drawn out, causing delays and wasted time in following up the various situations.
The government's processing of the amendment of the DCA of the project to
accommodate changes introduced with the cancellation of Credit 2175 was also responsible for
38



significant delays that adversely affected the implementation of the project in Gaza and
Inhambane.
Project execution was also hindered by the lack of guidance and direction from the
government (ownership). With the closure of the SEA, which housed the project headquarters
initially, under the direction of the Secretary of State for Cotton, and its transfer to what was then
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, there was no precise definition of the coordination of
the project at the ministerial level.
For planning and control of the execution of activities there were meetings of the TAC
(Technical Advisory Committee), with participation of the UDA coordination of the directors and
coordinators of the components. In the design of the project it was envisioned that these meetings
would be headed at the level of the Deputy Minister of Agriculture. However, it was the head of
the UDA, who had no authority over the directors of the components, who chaired the meetings.
This unclear situation, which prevailed until direction of the project was put under the
Director of the DEA in 1996, resulted in the Unit -for Development of Activities becoming an
intermediary between the project components and the World Bank, being regarded as a
representative of the funding organization and not a support structure for the government for the
project's implementation.
3.3   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control:
To coordinate implementation of the PRDSA, the Unit for Development of Activities was
established with contracted specialists. It was responsible for ensuring coordination of the drafting
and implementation of programs and activities, and making the respective disbursements,
ensuring compliance with the provisions of the DCA and the standards of the financing
organization and the government, as well as financial control and monitoring of project activities.
Implementation of the activities programrned in the various components of the PRDSA
was the responsibility of the respective implementation agencies, namely: National Rural
Extension Office, National Agronomics Research Institute, National Geographic and Mapping
Agency, National Rural Water Program, and Popular Development Bank. Each implementing
agency assigned a component coordinator who was responsible for program execution of its
component and coordination with the UDA.
In several situations the performance of the components adversely affected project
implementation, either because of delays in providing information needed for programming
activities and procurement, or because of the unsatisfactory execution of the programmed
activities.
In 1996 it was decided that the Director of Economics of the MAP would head the project,
and greater autonomy was afforded to the components for planning and execution of activities,
which no longer reported to the UDA. One result of this decision was the dispersion of data and
interruption in the preparation of consolidated progress reports for the project.
3.4    Costs and Financing:
Total project costs were estimated at about US$17,000,000, of which US$16,160,000 was
financed by the IDA and the remaining US$850,000 was the estimated counterpart of the
government. In comparison with the estimated costs in the project appraisal, the total costs were
about 42% of what was anticipated, with 46% for the IDA financing and 25% for the government
contribution. However, considering the budget revision in Credit 2337 in 1997, the loan
disbursements represent 75% of the revised amount.
39



In terms of execution of the expenditures anticipated in the appraisal, the levels
attained by the components were: land use and management, 95%; institutional development,
85%; research, 77%; and extension, 66%.
By category of expenditure, technical assistance spent 100% of the expenditures foreseen
in the appraisal, and incremental operational costs reached 93% of the programmed amount. The
construction category, which spent 16.6% of the budget, was the one with the lowest level of
execution. These developments reflect the performance of the components. As noted above,
several activities under institutional development that were not originally contemplated were
financed in the area of design and coordination of the PROAGRI.
Furthermore, the rehabilitation and construction works programmed in the extension and
agricultural research components were only partially done, and in the area of the rural water
component there were no disbursements.
4.  SUSTAINABILITY
The government's difficulties in ensuring its contribution for the implementation of the
project raised serious doubts abut the possibility that the state could maintain the activities funded
by the project, especially the functioning of the extension networks and the system for applied
research. However, the design of the sectoral program for public investment in agriculture
(PROAGRI) brought a whole new perspective to financing for the sector, in which coparticipation
of the state is ensured. This prospect is strengthened by the fact that the country has signed
agreements for forgiveness of external debt (HIPC), which will enable it to get additional
financial resources, and since agriculture is one of the priority areas for reducing absolute poverty,
it will benefit from the augmented resources.
With the design and start of implementation of the PROAGRI, conditions have been
created for sustainability of activities that were financed by the project. The prospect for greater
involvement of the private sector in extension and research activities is an additional factor
working for sustainability of these services in the long term.
5. BANK AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Bank's Performance
The Bank's performance in the implementation of the project had both positive and
negative aspects. Among the positive aspects one should note:
*  The Bank's supervision may be considered satisfactory, although of varying quality, due
perhaps to the changing of task managers. However, the Bank constantly monitored project
activities through regular supervisory missions during most of the implementation of the
project. These missions were composed of extension agents, researchers, experts on credit and
other matters, who helped in the identification of problems and recommended steps to
improve the performance of the components;
*  The Bank's supervision was also attentive to problems of project implementation that resulted
from the government's financing difficulties. It was decided to propose an amendment to the
DCA that extended the period of coverage of operational costs by 100% and lessened the
increase in coparticipation by the government. Several attempts were made to make the credit
component viable before it was decided to drop it;
Among aspects in which the Bank's intervention could be considered negative are the
following:
40



*  Excessive intervention by the Bank in aspects of project implementation that should be
the responsibility of the components, which contributed to the weak identification of the
government institutions responsible for implernentation of the project components;
*  Lack of flexibility in the process of approving expenditures. This situation was reflected in the
need for following up the entire process of obtaining approval even for expenses for
previously approved programs indicated in the Memorandums of the Supervisory Missions,
and the delays in formal approval of he authorization needed to carry out activities. This
delayed or rendered impossible the execution of many activities;
*  Lack of continuity in the orientation of the prcject on the part of the Bank, the performance of
the supervision, and approval of activities, owing to the change in task managers.
Overall, the Bank's performance was considered unsatisfactory.
Government 's Performance
The government's performance is also considered unsatisfactory. The government
devoted limited attention to the implementation ol- the project in terms of providing guidance for
the activities and defining priorities, and in assuring the human resources and counterpart
financing called for in the program.
6.  LESSONS LEARNED
The main lessons learned from the PRDSA project are as follows:
*  In designing the project it is necessary to consider that its configuration and implementation
strategy should take into account the local capacity for implementation. Although it is clear
that this concern was considered in the design of the PRDSA, some of the project's
expectations were too optimistic. Furthermore, the multiplicity of institutions responsible for
implementation of the components, including institutions not directly subordinate to the
institutional headquarters of the project, placed excessive demands on the coordination and
management;
-  The design and mechanisms established to ensure coordination of project implementation
should take into account the need to ensure "ownership"-the identification of the
government, and especially the implementing agencies, with the project, so as not to create the
impression that the financier owns or directs it;
*  There is a need for supervision and monitoring of the project activities to ensure that they are
consistently aimed toward achievement of their development objective, which requires
development of a system of monitoring and evaluation that not only evaluates project
activities but considers the impact on beneficiaries and maintains systematic documentation of
project implementation;
*  The need for flexibility and continuity: Implementation of the project called for flexibility to
take measures appropriate for the circumstances, as in the case of the amendment of the DCA
of the project. Furthermore, it is important to try to ensure continuity of the project
implementation teams by both the Bank and the government, to avoid breakdowns in the
performance and execution;
*  Nonobservance of the rules set by the financing agencies should not serve as a pretext for
frustrating the execution of activities, because it is necessary to find a balance point between
the need for flexibility and the application of the rules.
41






IBRD 23097
38'                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40'
M O ZAM B I Q U E
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
T A N Z A N I A                                                    p                      REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJ ECT
PHASING OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
MOCIMBOA                                PROJECT IMPLIMENTATION BY YEAR:
C  AB                DA PGDIA                                           PROJECT YEAR 1
-D E L G   AUID  PROJECT YEAR 2
m / A O AI3PROJECT YEAR 3
PROJECT YEAR 4
r_J-        f    fiAONtEFt"EZz--lf   M~~~~ELUCO        X
2                                        I                                         / t / DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
/PE /   ,8   gABA                        ®    PROVINCE CAPITALS
N\  IA         A                                          ASCUARE                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
- // ECFI                         *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
-   -    ;INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_AM PA    g0                                         50       100       100      200
tr                 ~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
4                 g2ift Th,, pq  m           p,.po  d by Th. W.,d Both  I ' ,eIy onth.
3                                                          -h`. h.d  d i, <-n =-=I .
0  Z A M B E Z I A   A         SNGOv                                1    a    dBOT5WANA3tAVEO --lS C,. 
lentn  rcyed,-b-en  on cer -o loh b-oc4-,o
N                                                                  uw~~~~~~~~N      INDbkN~~CN  Ot040
2                                                                                              TANZ 5  <   t HANNE
ONTAtvT
MOMA  MOZAMBIQUE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMI
OCEAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
C-ANNEL                  AThA                     LIEY 1991
JULY 1991






IBRD 23098
32          , 3   33                          38              4W        A-
\ 8 \ } ~TANZANIA 
3     100    200    300                         TANZANIA
0  110 110         3AE0
KILOMETERS (>,_CB
DELGADC'
12                                                                 4I
MAHATE
ZAMBIA                                                                        INDIAN
-L'c11   NIASSA
9g Lichiriga .  
MALAWI
% X ~~~~~~~~~~~CUAMBAN
f             ~~~~TETE       )        f    t          a p l    AIL 
C.horra B.osr DoJ                                   AT        MAvPLJLA 
IA= ^            UMOATIZ                                        NAMETI   OCEAN    7
Tetes *                   ZAMBEZIA            
t7  1  >  1           ~~~~MOCUBA            \
t     (    1   N~~~~~EGZ       MOCUBELA
/   (     .>1      ~~~~~~Queliman   /  MOZAMtBIQUE
vMANIC  MUTARAM A                  AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
< CAIA     >          REHABILITATION AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZIMBABWE         N Chimolo    SOFALA                            PROJEC'T AREA
t<.  c  MAr*4A/         L  H  PROJECTAREA
*   COTTON GINNERY SITES
-20                     f          BUZI                                                         201
0  PROVINCE CAPITALS
<  NATIONAL CAPiTAL
-    PROViNCE BOUNDARIES
-22'           /           %\-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                       2i'
\         X~~~~~~~~NHAMBANE            rA                XANA    It7^
INOIAN
TANZANI 
(  GAZA    0  JANGAM,G                              3
AFRICA  e   9,        0                      4   A
N7APU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BTOt\|SWANIANH
- SOUTHts=XtSUT 
AFIC                                                                       AREAI       AFRI   
MAPUTOAN                                                     L A;,   
3o'~~~~~~~~~~~~rg MA tS;;  2.,  pw,  29R      TA41
I  N                                                                    1991
JULY 1991



