Documnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                            Report No. 9889-MOZ
Report No. 9889-MOZ Type: (SAR)
KEYNAN, G / X34390 / J11143/ AF6AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 6, 1992
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -   Mozambican Metical (MT)
USD 1.00           =   MT  1450 (average for 1991)
MT 1,000           =   USD0.69
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Mozambique:            January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIA-TIONS ANID ACRONYMS
ADP          -   Annual Development Plan
AfDB         -   African Development Bank
AGRICOM    -   State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing
BM           -   Bank of Mozambique
BPD          -   People's Development Bank
BSTM         -   Standard Totta Bank of Mozambique
CC           -   Component Coordinator
CCADR        -   Special Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development
CNP          -   National Planning Commission
CNSP         -   National Commission for Salaries and Prices
DDA          -   District Agricultural Officer
DEA          -   Directorate for Agricultural Economics
DINAGECA   -   National Directorate for Geography and Cadastre
DNA          -   National Directorate for Water
DNDR         -   National Directorate for Rural Development
DPCA         -   Provincial Directorate for Construction and Water
EPAR         -   Provincial Rural Water Supply Workshop
ERP          -   Economic Rehabilitation Program
EEC          -   European Economic Community
FAO          -   Food and Agriculture Organization
FCC          -   Field Coordinating Committee
FEW          -   Field Extension Worker
FOT          -   Farmer Organization Team
FSR          -   Farming Systems Research
GEOMOC    -   State Company for Borehole Drilling and Development
GDP          -   Gross Domestic Product
GOM          -   Government of Mozambique
IAM          -   Cotton Institute of Mozambique
I1AM         -   Agricultural Research nstitute of Mozambique
ICB          -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -   International Development Association
DES          -   Impact Evaluation System
IFAD         -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
INIA         -   National Agricultural Research Institute
IPM          -   Integrated Pest Management
lVC          -   Joint Venture Company
MCA          -   Ministry of Construction and Water
MES          -   Monitoring and Evaluation System
MIS          -   Management Information System
MOA          -   Ministry of Agriculture
MOF          -   Ministry of Finance
O&M          -   Operation and Maintenance
PC           -   Project Coordinator
PCC          -   Project Coordination Committee
PDA          -   Provincial Directorate for Agriculture
PDP          -   Priority Districts Program
PFI          -   Participating Financial Intermediary
PFP          -   Policy Framework Paper
PMO          -   Program and Management Officer
PRONAR       -   National Program for Rural Water Supply
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



RES          -   Rural Extension Service
SDR          -   Special Drawing Rights
SEA          -   Secretariat of State for 'otton
SIDA         -   Swedish International Development Agency
SMS          -   Subject Matter Specialist
UDA          -   Unit for Development Activities
UNDP         -   United Nations Development Program
USAID        -   United States Agency for International Development



Mozambi=
Agriculltural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
Table of Contents
Credit and Project Summary  ........................  i
.. Background ........................ 1
A. Project Genesis ........................  1
B. Main Country Characteristics ........................  2
C. Economic Context  ........................  2
D. The Financial Sector ..................;                                         3
E. The Agricultural Sector .................  5
F. Agricultural Production and Services in the Project Area ......   ............. 8
G. IDA and Donors Involvement in Mozambique
Agricultural Sector .........................................  14
U. The Projct ............................................. 16
A. Project Objectives, Beneficiaries and Main Features ..................... 16
B. Detailed Project Features  . ....................................  17
Im. Project Implementation .........................................  27
A. Organization and Management .............          .....................  27
IV  Cost Estimates. Financing and Prcremu t.                ....................... 34
A. Cost Estimates ........          ...        ........................  34
B. Financing ........... 35
C. Procurement                           6........... 
D. Disbursements ........... 38



V. ftngfts Risks. Sustainabilitv and Environmen..tal 1-:ffie _jg  .................... 41
A. Benefits         ................................................  41
B. Risks .................................................. 44
C. Sustainability .............................................  44
D. Environmental Effects ....................................... 45
E. Gender Focus  .........................  45
VI. Agreements Reached and Recommendation ............................ 46
...................................................  49
Annex 1   Organization Charts ..................  51
Annex 2   The Financial Sector ........ ..........................  55
Annex 3   The Cotton Subsector ..................  65
Annex 4   Group Credit Arrangements ..................  75
Annex 5   Terms of Reference for Consultants, Main Project
Implementation Staff, Studies and Surveys .........   ............. 79
Annex 6   Implementation Arrangements for the Line of Credit .....     ........  107
Annex 7   Cost Tables and Statistical Data  ..........     ................  109
Annex 8   Project Implementation Schedule ..........       ................  125
Annex 9 Project Supervision Plan .127
Annex 10   Environmental Assessment Survey Summary .131
Annex 11 Accounting Guidelines .135
Annex 12 Documents in Project File .145
MM       IBRD Nos. 23097 and 23098
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited Mozambique in July 1991,
comprising Mr. G. Keynan, Senior Agriculturalist and Mission Leader, who also headed the pre-appraisal
mission comprising Messrs. E. Quisumbing, Agricultural Research Specialist; 0. Purhonen, Water Supply
Specialist (IDA); and J. Intrator, Agricultural Credit Specialist; B. Berman, Senior Economist; M. Olin,
Management and Organization Specialist (Cons.). In addition, Ms. S. Lastarria, Land Resources Use
and Management Specialist (Cons.); Messrs. Z. Matmor, Agricultural Extension Specialist (IDA); A.
Ranganathan, Sr. Financial Analyst (IDA); J. Weiss, Pricing Policy Specialist; and C. Bell, Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist (Cons.), assisted in project design. Messrs. A. Uhlig, V. Venkatesan, A.
Pritchard, J. Yaron, and C. Ameur were the peer reviewers for the operation. Ms. T. Treu provided
support in the preparation of the report and assisted in project cost calculations. Messrs. C. Helman, S.
Denning, and H. Sing; ze the managing Division Chief, Department Director, and Operations Adviser,
respectively, for the op-ration.



- i -
MOZAMBIOUIE
AGRIC(ULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PRO T
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower          Republic of Mozambique
Beneficiaries     Ministry of Agriculture, small-scale family farmers and traders
Amount            SDR 25.9 million (USD 35.0 million equivalent)
Terms             Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Q      Xnending Terms   From the IDA funds of USD 35.0 million equivalent, the Bank of Mozambique (BM),
acting as executing agent, will make available approximately USD 8.1 million to the
participating financial institutions (PFIs) for onlending to small-scale family farmers
and traders on the basis of actual loan approvals and agreed eligibility criteria. The
PTr-s will onlend the credit proceeds in local currency to beneficiaries at adjustable
,nterest rates based on the structure of rates prevailing in Mozambique. The onlending
credit risk vill be borne by the PFIs who will receive a spread as determined within
the banking system. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the BM4 (Central) on
behalf of the Goverunent, and will be covered by the interest yield on funds onlent,
net of the service charge on the IDA credit, the administration costs, and the spreads
of the PFIs on onlending. The onlending terms and conditions will be reviewed
annually.
Projiec Desription The Project supports GOM's efforts to provide: (a) upgraded agricultural services
such as extension and applied research, including the involvement of one Joint Venture
Company in 1-2 districts in the provision of integrated agricultural services; (b)
working capital for smallholder agricultural production, mostly through credit groups,
and for marketing; (c) rural water supply facilities, which will also include the carrying
out of an inventory survey, an O&M study and a 5-year development plan; (d) land
use and management services, including collection of basic data on land tenure and use
and conservation needs; and (e) institutional development, including training of MOA
personnel. The Project will be coordinated by a Project Coordinator and activities
under each intervention will be coordinated by a Component Coordinator. The Project
will finance the provision of technical assistance, training, incremental salaries,
incremental recurrent operational costs including credit and the purchase of vehicles,
equipment and materials.
BenefitsnThRisb   The Project will directly benefit foodcrop and cotton producers by increasing
production and incomes. Mozambique's balance of payments situation will be
improved with increased cotton exports and reduced food imports. Additional benefits,
not readily quantifiable, will be generated, including: strengthening of existing
institutions and services which will enhance support to the rural community, espe:ially
to women who are the main foodcrop producers and water providers; provision of
improved water supply which will improve health conditions and lead to more effective
integrated pest management; and introduction of soil conservation and farm
management practices which will help safeguard the environment. ERR is estimated



- ii -
at 27%. The main risks include the unpredictable security ,.iation, borrower
inexperience, organizational difficulties, and inadequate and untimely funding of
project activities. To minimize these risks: (a) the Project will be restricted to
relatively secure areas and a flexible approach will be adopted, which will allow a
redefinition of the project area during implementation; (b) multi-disciplinary technical
assistance to train and help local staff carry out project implementation will be
provided; and (c) assurances were obtained that GOM budgetary allocations, consistent
with the Public Expenditure Review recommendations, will be made on time and wil
gradually cover project incremental recurrent costs.
1. Estimated Costs and Financing Pan
(USD million)
|0                                   Local           Foreign              Tag
Currency Costs  Exchange Costs
A. Upgrading of Agricultural
Services                                    8.3             5.8            14.1
B. Credit                                   2.1             7.0             9.1
C. Rural Water Supply                       0.8             3.0             3.8
D. Land Use & Management                    1.0             1.2             2.2
E. Institutional Support                    1.4             3.9             5.3
E. Taxes: International Consultants          1              _               L
BASELINE COSTS                             15.1            20.9            36.0
Physical Contingencies                      0.5             0.4             0.9
Price Contingencies                                        . X I7
TOTAL COSTS:                               15.8            24.8            40.6
Einancing Plan
(USD million)
Source, of Financ                    Local           Foreign              121ta
CMnc osts   E!xchange Const
1. I]DA                                    11.0            24.0            35.0
2. Government                               2.8             0.5             3.4
3. Participating Financial
Institutions                             0.5             0.2              0.7
4. Credit Beneficiaries
TOTAL:                                     15.8            24.8            40.6



- iii -
2. EstimateA DA Disbursement Schedule
(USD Million)
Proiect Year           1      2      3      4      5      6       7      8
Annual                2.5'   5.3    5.0    4.7    4.7    4.3    4.0    4.5
Cumulative            2.51   7.8   12.8   17.5   22.2   26.5   30.5   35.0
Percentage of Total
Credit                7     22     36     50     63      75     87    100
IIncluding USD 1.0 million repayment of PPF



mpZAME
AGRICULTURAL SERVCES REHABILITATION ANP) DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. Backiround
A. Project Genesis
1.01         In 1986, the Government of Mozambique (GOM), assisted by IDA, carried out four
agricultural studies on the cashew, cotton, irrigation and forestry subsectors.  Based on the
recommendations of these studies, IDA agreed to provide assistance for the development of the cashew,
cotton, and irrigation subsectors, and for the development of agricultural institutions and services. Terms
of reference for the preparation of an agricultural services rehabilitation project in cotton producing areas
were agreed in September 1989. Subsequently, a local Task Force consisting of selected Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) staff was set up in the Secretariat of State for Cotton (SEA) to prepare the Project.
The Task Force, which consulted with project participants, main local NGOs, and the representatives of
provincial governments in the project area, began to prepare the Project in January 1990. Assistance was
provided by consultants with expertise in the following areas: seed cotton growing and processing,
extension, research, agricultural economics, cotton pricing policy analysis, land use and management,
and institutional development. In early 1991, project preparation was completed, and in July of the same
year, IDA appraised the GOM proposals.
1.02         In the course of project preparation, the Task Force's original terms of reference were
changed to accommodait fundamental changes in the organization and managewrent of the cotton
subsector. Due to the poor performance of the state cotton enterprises, the Government, in 1989, decided
to move towards privatization of the cotton industry and signed "protocols of intent" with three privae
enterprises for the establishment of Joint Venture Companies (JVCs) in the main cotton producing areas
of the Provinces of Nampula and Cabo Delgado (paras 1.41-1.43). It is expected that through the estab-
lishment of the JVCs, investments and essential managexial skills will become available for the
rehabilitation of the state farms and ginneries and for the establishment of systems of input delivery and
cotton marketing for most of the cotton producers in the JVCs' areas of influence. The proposed Project
will, therefore, complement actions taken by the JVCs, and focus its activities on the provision of basic
agricultural services such as extension, research, credit for the purchase of inputs and produce marketing,
rural water supply, and land use and management services to farmers living in 12 districts in the project
area.
1.03         Due to the adverse security situation in the country, experience in the development of the
agricultural sector is limited. However, this limited experience has led to the design of projects which
have a relatively long gestation period, operate through on-line and existing agencies, and are sufficiently
decentralizea to be implemented by on-site institutions. In addition, in designing the Project care has
been taken to build upon the experience of similar projects in other parts of Africa and elsewhere, and
to take into account the Mozambican security situation, the scarcity of trained local manpower, and the
necessity to provide sustainable assistance to subsistence and commercial farmers and traders, in line with
present Government policy and strategy in the agricultural sector.



- 2 -
B. Main Country Cimaracteristics
1.04         Mozambique, which is situated on the eastern coast of southern Africa, has a total land
area of 786,380 sq. km, with an additional 13,000 sq. km of inland waters which include Lake Cabora
Bassa and part of Lake Malawi. The country is bordered by Tanzania to the north, Malawi and Zambia
to the northwest, Zimbabwe and South Africa to the west, and Swaziland to the southwest. Its
predominant physiographic feature is a steady rise in elevation from the coastal belt in the east to the
mountainous areas in the ivest. Three main altitude zones up to 1,000 m can be distinguished, which
together cover about 96% of the country. A fourth altitude zone above 1,000 m is found In a few
small, widely dispersed locations.
1.05         The country's resource base is favorable for agricultural production. Land is plentiful
relative to the population, soils are reasonably fertile, and rainfall usually is adequate. The south,
however, is characterized by a tropical dry climate with a low annual rainfall (400-800 mm) concentrated
in a short rainy season, relatively light soils, and average temperatures of 23-260C. Although the security
situation has improved, large part- of the country are still either inaccessible or accessible only by air.
More than one-third of the rural population is still displaced or otherwise affected by war and must
depend on food aid and provisions from the Emergency Program. New and existing structures frequently
are destroyed and, in many cases, the provision of agricultural services such as extension, marketing, and
credit is hampered by ongoing security problems.
C. Economic Context
1.06         E-conomic Performance. Despite the country's well-endowed and diversified resource
base, Mozambique's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita fell fairly consistently since Independence
in 1975 and until 1987. External imbalances, aggravated by an increasingly overvalued exchange rate,
led to the rapid accumulation of arrears on external debt service. Internally, large fiscal deficits and
unconstrained bank financing of public enterprise losses resulted in a tripling of the money stock despite
shrinking output. Administrative measures were used to control prices and allocate resources. Although
intended to promote efficiency and social welfare, these measures introduced rigidities and disincentives
which worked against allocative efficiency. As shortages increased, barter, inflation, and parallel markets
for goods and foreign exchange became widespread. Between 1980 and 1986, overali production fell by
about 30% and exports were reduced by nearly 75%. In 1985, imports were down by nearly two-thirds
of their 1980 level, although they have recovered somewhat since 1986. 'n 1989, GDP per capita was
estimated at around USD 100, making Mozambique one of the poorest countries in the world.
1.07         The difficulties evident in the Mozambican economy have had a major impact on the
performance of the agricultural sector, resulting in serious decline in production and marketing of
produce. Many of the sector's difficulties result from external factors such as droughts and floods, and
the security situation which has disrupted the rural economy and caused widespread displacement of the
population. In addition, Mozambique lacks basic physical, economic and social infrastructure, has one
of the lowest literacy rates in the world, and faces an acute shortage of skilled managerial and technical
manpower. All of these factors make it difficult for the Government to carry out even the most basic
policy analysis and planning activities. The poor performance of the agricultural sector also may be
explained by the rigid pricing policies and focus of govermment expenditure on large, capital-intensive
investments. Until recently, little atteiition has been given to the development of institutions and



infrastructure for delivering essential agricultural services to family farmers and commercial producers.
Basic marketing activities are restricted by the poor conditions of the roads and the vehicle fleet as well
as the scarcity of vehicles, spares, fuel, and repair and maintenance facilities, and attacks on vehicles by
bandits.
1.08         TheEconomicRehabilitationProgram. To arrest economic deterioration, the Government
of Mozambique instituted a comprehensive Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) in January 1987.
Under this program, economic refor.ms are being introduced to improve the exchange rate, foreign
exchange allocation, trade policies, pricing policy, the budget, and the financial sector.
1.09         In addition to macroeconomic policy changes, the rehabilitation program also addresses
policy and institutional reform within key economic sectors. In agriculture, attention has been focused
on pricing and marketing policies in order to restore incentives for agricultural production and marketing.
Since 1987, real prices have been increased on all agricultural commodities, including foodcrops. Price
controls for p.oducts such as s.hellfish, potatoe-F, lamb, and chicken have been removed entirely. The
Government has accepted the principle of border pricing and, as a r.sult, producer prices have increased
in real terms. During the 1988/89 marketing season, the Government established a minimum pricin-
system to protect family producers of cashew, cotton, copra, and oilseeds from the monopsoniy power
of local processors. Under this system, state enterprises such as the State Enterprise for Agricultural
Marketing (AGRICOM) compete in the market alongside other traders.
1.10         Overall, under the ERP, considerable progress has been made to restore domestic price
incentives, with domestic foodcrop prices averaging nearly 80% of the international price. In the case
of cotton, the SEA prel. -es annual farmgate price proposals which are approved by MOA and submitted
to the National Salaries and Price Commission for review and publication. A recent analysis of the
official price data suggests that under the ERP, the agricultural terms of trade improved for export crop
producers (cashew, cotton, and copra). However, despite changing exchange rates and increases in world
cotton prices, cotton minimum farmgate price has been maintained throughout the cropping season, thus
significantly decreasing farmers' share of cotton revenues. While the objective of the ERP is, in general
terms, to enihance production incentives, there is no explicit intention to favor export production. It is
nonetheless the case that, compared to the immrdiate pre-ERP period, incentives for export production
have received a relative boost. As a result of the macroeconomic policy changes, GDP increased on
average 5.4% a year betweer. 1987 and 1989. At the sectoral level, the GDP for agriculture has also
responded positively, increasing by about 2.0% in 1990.
D. The Financial Sector
1.11         General. The present financial system came into being when the banking system was
restructured in 1978. There are three banks, of which one, Bank of Mozambique (BM), is legally
responsible for carrying out the dual functions of both a central and a commercial bank. BM and the
second bank, Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD), are 100% state-owned. The GOM, however,
accepts the autonomy of the banking system as a guiding principle. The third bank, Banco Standard Totta
de Mocambique (BSTM), is a private bank which is largely foreign-owned. In addition, an Agricultural
Credit Fund (CCADR) was established in BPD in 1988 (Annex 2).
1.12         During the first decade after Independence, the banking system operated mostly as a
passive conduit of funds to finance production plans for the various sectors of the economy. In keeping



- 4 -
with the Govermnent's new economic policy, however, considerable changes have been introduced in the
financial sector, including competition in resource allocation within the banking system. In addition,
reforms under the ERP are addressing the weaknesses of the banking sector in three major respects: the
structure and operation of the banking sector; the relations between the public sector and the banking
system; and the stimulation of the rural sector.
1.13         The Structure of the Banking Sector. The primary objective of structural reform has been
the separation of the central banking and commercial banking functions of BM, in order to improve
economic and financial management. Though the separation has not yet been completed, progress has
been made in classifying operations and departments for the two functions, and introducing a new chart
of accounts to facilitate the separation of accounts and enable the evaluation of assets and liabilities and,
thus, ensure the viability of the commercial bank. In 1992, a new commercial bank will be created that
will assume BM's commercial bank responsibilities.
1.14         The Operations of the Banking System. In this area, the principal developments under
the ERP have focussed on the introduction of ceilings on the expansion of domestic-source credit,
simplifications of the interest rate structure, and movement towards positive real interest rates.
Furthermore some progress has been made in strengthening banks' portfolios, and in emphasizing
financial viability and repayment prospects as criteria for the extension of credit.
1.15         Relations Between the Public SectQr and the Banking System. The consolidation of the
bad L. ns of public enterprises and their transfer from the banking sector to the Government has been
under negotiation since 1986. To date, good progress has been achieved in the gradual transfer of these
loans with Government reimbursing the banks for the loans transferred. Furthermore, the GOM and the
banks have agreed that the criteria for extension of new credit will emphasize the borrowers' financial
viability and their repayment prospects.
1.16         Lendins to the Rural Sector. The CCADR, which started operations in mid-1988, was
intended by Government to become an important financial instrument for: stimulating investments in the
rural sector; focussing on the production of basic foodcrops by newly settled farmers, veterans,
cooperatives, and the siiiall-scale family producer; and providing financing at concessionary terms and
interest rates. Available data, however, indicate that, in 1989, state enterprises were the principal
beneficiaries of the CCADR and absorbed the major share of its credit. Currently, because of lack of
financial resources and loan arrears, CCADR has practically stopped lending and its future is unclear.
Nevertheless, there is evidence that lending by BPD in the rural areas to the private sector is increasing.
These lending activities are directed to large commercial producers while the family subsector does not
yet have access to institutional credit.
1.17         Structure of Inter1stRates. Until 1986, interest rates were low in nominal terms, ranging
from 0 to 6% for deposits, and 3 to 10% for lending, and were negative in real terms. The structure of
interest rates was revised in January 1987, with rates ranging from 3% on demand deposits and 12 to
20% on time deposits, and 54 different lending rates ranging from 12 to 35%. Further revisions of
interest rates came into effect in line with the Government's policy of moving towards positive real
interest rates. The latest revision of interest rates, which became effective on September 20, 1991, raised
lending rates on average by about 10% for each category and rates ~iow range between 32.5% and 42%
p.a. It is expected that the new interest rate structure will have a positive impact on credit allocation,
with credit shifting to borrowers who have better prospects in the current business environment. Annex
2 provides more detailed information on the financial sector and the current interest rate structure.



- 5 -
E. The Agricultural Sector
1.18         General.  Agriculture is the most important sector in the Mozambican economy,
accounting for about 40-50% of GDP, employing over 80% of the labor force, and generating around
80% of the country's export earnings. Soils are reasonably fertile and support a variety of crops
including maize, rice, sorghum, beans, cassava, groundnuts, sunflower, sesame, fruit and vegetables for
national consumption, and copra, cashewnuts, cotton, tea, sisal and citrus for export. Rainfeil usually
is adequate, although there is a risk of drought in the south. About 80% of the hous1eholds in
Mozambique consist of small-scale subsistence farmers who, given peaceful living conditions, supportive
policy and agricultural services, and an adequate institutional environment, in most years could produce
more than is necessary to meet their country's needs.
1.19         Structure of Agricultural Production. Agricultural production in Mozambique is carried
out in four distinct groups of farms: family (smallholder) farms, state farms, private commercial farms,
and cooperative farms. A fifth group, mixed farms, is now emerging and consists of commercial farms
set up as joint ventures between the Government and private enterprises. The family subsector was
responsible, before the outbreak of the hostilities, for the cultivation of about 2.8 million hectares a year,
compared to less than 200,000 hectares for all of the other four producer categories combined. It
consisted of about 2.0 to 2.5 million families and is still the main supplier of marketed foodcrops and
cash crops such as cashew and seed cotton. State farms include less than 40 active (out of about 70)
enterprises engaged in agricultural and livestock production over an area of about 65,000 hectares.
Managerial inefficiency and inappropriate production technologies have resulted in extremely high unit
costs of production on most of these state farms. Private commercial farms, excluding the JVCs, include
some 100 agricultural and livestock enterprises with an overall cultivated area of about 50,000 hectares.
Although efforts have been made to promote cooperatives, the area managed by them is negligible. Most
of these cooperatives are located in the southern part of the country.
1.20         Sector Performance. Only 20 to 30% of the country's 31 million hectares of cultivable
land is under cultivation. Much of the irrigation infrastructure in place across the country cannot be used
because of maintenance and security problems. The output of small-scale farmers tends to be severely
curtailed by ongoing hostilities in the countryside and the absence of supportive institutional policies and
services. Although the performance of the agricultural sector is difficult to measure due to the absence
of reliable data on production and yields among small-scale farmers, tvailable data show a major decline
in the marketed quantities of most commodities, beginning in 1983, partly due to a severe drought. The
production of three major export crops--copra, cashewnuts, and sisal-fell sharply in 1982; cotton and tea
followed in 1983. During 1983 and 1984, rice sales dropped to about 40% of their 1980 level, and then
recovered fully. Maize and rice were the most important marketed foodcrops until 1984, when the
removal of price controls from fruit and vegetables led to three- and four-fold increases in their respective
marketed quantities. Maize sales fell by about 60% during 1985 and 1986. The marketed production
of tea collapsed in 1986 and in 1988 was little more than 4% of its 1981 volume. By 1988, however,
copra production had recovered to 65% of its 1980 level, cashew to 50% and cotton to 40%.
Cashewnut's recovery was largely a result of new pricing policies and the provision of consumer goods
to producers. Sisal production, which stopped completely in 1988, has since resumed on a small scale.
Although crops and forestry are main contributors to Mozambique's exports, prawns have been the most
important export commodity during the last few years.



- 6 -
1.21          Agricultural Development Strategy. In the past, public expenditures on agriculture have
focused on large-scale, capital-intensive investment projects in the state sector rather than on the provision
of essential agricultural infrastructure and services. The productivity of these investments has been low
due to inappropriate and costly technologies, inadequate managerial and technical capacity, and shortages
of critical inputs. Estimates of total agricultural production show that, compared to state and private
producers, family producers have an overwhelming weight in production and generally have much lower
unit costs of production.
1.22     Presently the Government is focussing on increasing the production and yields of the family
subsector. As most of the population derives its livelihood from small-scale family farms, increasing the
productivity of these farmers should improve agricultural production overall and enhance food security.
Furthermore, over 60% of those working in the family subsector are women; therefore supporting the
development of family farmers agricultural production will directly benefit rural women. This new focus
will require that public expenditures be redirected toward the provision of basic agricultural services such
as research, extension, education and training, and the support of basic marketing infrastructure and
equipment such as rural roads, storage shelters, vehicles and spare parts.
1.23          The Government's main objectives for the agricultural sector are to:
e    increase domestic food production and reduce dependence on food aid;
o    improve food security and incomes in rural and urban areas;
o    restore volumes of agricultural exports and market shares to their early 1980 levels;
o    increase the supply of raw materials to local processing industries; and
o    stem the environmental degradation caused by over-concentration of displaced individuals
in safe areas.
In addition, reforms under the ERP are intended to increase the efficiency and profitability of agricultural
enterprises and to decentralize investment decision making, budget allocation and control to the provincial
and district levels. In this context, the Government recently decided to transform most of its provincial
cotton companies into JVCs with strong private sector participation (paras 1.02, 1.41 - 1.43), and to use
the proposed Project as the main vehicle to test ways to decentralize implementation decision making for
investment activities to the provincial Governors (paras 2.02 & 3.01).
1.24          Administrative Set-up. Mozambique is divided administratively into provinces, districts
and localities, with the seat of its central government in Maputo. Every province has a Provincial
Directorate for each of the relevant national ministries, located in their capital city. The heads of the
various directorates form, together with the Governor of the Province, a provincial cabinet. Each
Provincial Directorate has its own budget. These provincial budgets are locally prepared, submitted to
the relevant ministers for review and approval, and integrated into the relevant ministerial budget, before
being presented to the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The provincial Governor plays an active role in
supervising the activities of the various directorates.
1.25          Each district is managed by a District Administrator appointed by the provincial
Governor. The various directorates position their field level staff in the districts. A district may have



- 7 -
several Administrative Posts where the staff serving that post live. The District Administrator, however,
plays a very limited role as the activities of each directorate are controlled from the provincial capital.
Furthermore, priorit-s- and norms concerning matters such as establishment (staffing) and salaries are
still determined by the central level.
1.26          The Ministry of Agricugture (MOA) has been reorganized several times since
Independence, and its current structure dates back to March 1987. The Ministry is made up of three
State Secretariats, four National Directorates, and 10 Provincial Directorates. The State Secretariats are
responsible for the planning and management of the hydrology, cashewnut, and cotton subsectors. The
National Directorates define policies and direct programs in the agriculture, livestock, forestry and
wildlife, and rural development subsectors and coordinate activities with the various research institutes
(Annex 1, Chart 1). The Provincial Directorates for Agriculture (PDAs) are responsible, under the
guidance of the provincial Governors, for all agricultural activities in the Province and have direct control
over their budgets.
1.27          The State Secretariat for Cotton (SEA), although an integral part of the Minister of
Agriculture's portfolio, is headed by a Secretary of State who is appointed by the President and attends
the meetings of the Council of Ministers when subjects pertaining to cotton are to be discussed.
1.28          The structure and functions of the Secretariat for Cotton are set out in the Diploma
Ministerial of the Ministry of Agriculture No. 53/87. SEA's organization is given in Annex 1, Chart 2.
The SEA is in charge of strengthening the cotton subsector's economnic performance, technical guidance,
and training of personnel. In this context, the SEA deals with sectoral planning, setting of development
priorities, price setting and policies, monitoring and coordination of agricultural research, introduction
of new agro-techniques, and manpower planning and training.
1.29          SEA's approved establishment is as published in the Ministry of Finance/Ministry of
Agriculture Order No. 9/89, and includes 76 established and filled posts. Nine posts are occupied by
university graduates of whom five are expatriates paid from various project funds or aid agencies. The
SEA's Directorate of Economics suffers most from a lack of qualified national staff.
1.30          DNDR, the National Directorate for Rural Development, exists only at the central level.
Its duties in agricultural extension include setting standards for the selection and hiring of extension staff,
designing and giving courses, setting norms for extension activities and developing extension methodology
and messages. The provision of extension services is entirely within the realm of the Provincial
Directorate for Agriculture (PDA) through its provincial Rural Extension Service (RES).
1.31          INIA, the National Institute for Agricultural Research, is the principal but not the only
institution for agricultural research. Other institutions, such as SEA, engage in research in their specific
fields of interest. INIA is a dependency of the Ministry of Agriculture, is located in Maputo, and has
a number of experimental stations in the provinces. Lately, MOA has begun to concentrate all
agricultural research in INIA, in order to make more efficient use of scarce human resources. Among
INIA's responsibilities are the preparation of soil maps, the definition of land suitability for agricultural
uses, and the development of soil conservation packages.
1.32          DINAGECA, the National Directorate for Geography and Cadastre, is a dependency of
the Ministry of Agriculture. It is responsible for subdividing the national land into lots, issuing land titles
through its Division of Cadastre and maintaining the national land registry. Its central offices are located



-8-
in Maputo. Provincial and district offices of DINAGECA are administratively responsible to the PDAs.
1.33         PRONAR, the National Program for Rural Water Supply, is a unit of the National
Directorate for Water which in tum is a dependency of the Ministry of Construction and Water. It
promotes the development of rural water systems throughout the country, monitors rural water needs, and
assists in the development of water programs at the provincial level. PRONAR prepares and issues
planning criteria and design standards and supervises program implementation. It also helps to train
people in the communities to carry out light maintenance and repair work. Each Province has its own
Provincial Directorate for Construction and Water (DPCA), which is directly responsible for rural water
supply, construction, operation and maintenance of water infrastructure, and implementation of rural
water development activities through its Department of Water and Sanitation. The DPCAs have their own
budgets and prepare their own development programs jointly with PRONAR.
F. Agricultural Production and Srvices in the Prolect Area
hthe ProQi Area
1.34         The Project will be implemented in the provinces of Nampula and Cabo Delgado in
northern Mozambique (IBRD Map 23098). These provinces lie between 300 and 500 meters above sea
level and contain 4.2 million or 28% of the country's population and 164,230 square kilometers or 21%
of the country's land area. Cabo Delgado bfAs an average population density of 14.4 persons per sq. kn.;
and Nampula has 37.1 persons per sq. km. CaboDelgado lies between 10029' and 14001' south and has
a humid semi-arid to arid sub-humid climate. The mean annual rainfall varies between 930 - 1130 mm,
with a high coefficient of variation. Mean annual temperature is around 25°C. Nampula lies between
13029' and 14°54' south and has a sub-tropical humid climate, characterized by a wet season from mid-
November until May with a mean annual rainfall of between 900 - 1300 mm but with a high coefficient
of variation. Mean annual temperature is around 250C. Agriculture dominates the regional economy as
well as the provincial economy with over 90% of the economically active population engaged in
agriculture. Very few people are employed in the industrial or mining sectors. The majority of the rural
population lives in communal villages.
1.35         The project area is suitable for almost all crops, with the exception of cassava for which
only moderate to marginal conditions prevail in Cabo Delgado. When soil characteristics are taken into
account, the largest part of the project area shows a moderate to marginal suitability for the cultivation
of annual foodcrops under a low level of inputs (traditional farming subsector). When high inputs are
considered, suitability ratings vary from suitable to moderately suitable for the same crops. The Project
will gradually cover twelve districts (Monapo, Ribaue, Montepuez, Namapa, Mecuburi, Balama,
Namuno, Memba, Muecate, Erati, Ancuabe, and Chiure) in the Nampula and Cabo Delgado provinces
(IBRD Map 23097 and Annex 7, Table 13). Any other district with a high concentration of small-scale
farmers producing foodcrops and cotton and situated in the vicinity of existing ginneries, could
subsequently be addedi to the project area, provided an agreement on this addition is reached between the
GOM and IDA.
The Family Subst'or
1.36         FarmSize and Cropping Pattems.  The average farm size of a typical family of two
adults and two or three children is approximately 2.0 to 2.5 hectares. Where farm units are larger, these



-9 -
are usually cultivated by extended families working together. Two main cultivation systems are
encountered in the project area: the first is carried out on fragmented individual holdings, the second on
blocks. In the case of block farming, individual holdings of several families in a village are grouped into
one cultivated area with each individual plot retaining its own identity. Block farming has been
increasingly adopted since Independence as families have moved into villages. The blocks are supposed
to consist of generally uniform soils, so that yield differences cannot be attributed to soil quality and all
families can adopt the same crop rotation. Families with fragmented holdings know from experience the
soil characteristics of each separate unit and grow the crops which do best on each unit.
1.37         The crops most widely grown in the project area are foodcrops such as maize, legumes
(e.g., beans and groundnuts), and some cassava. In some areas, such as the Meconta district, cassava
is the preferred staple. Other cereals are also grown: sorghum, millet, sesame and sometimes rice. If
a cash crop is grown, it is likely to be cotton. In Nampula province there are large areas of cashew trees
which also provide a cash income to family farmers. Most inputs in family subsector agriculture are non-
cash inputs derived from family labor and managerial skills. These are applied to the land to produce
food and cash crops, fuel and building materials, livestock feed and livestock products.
1.38         To ensure a constant supply of food and to minimize risk, farmers tend to develop highly
complex farming operations/systems with a wide range of crops, crop mixtures, cropping patterns and
sequencing. Maximum yields are seldom the primary aim because farmers are more concerned with food
self-sufficiency and total net revenue. There is, therefore, a coasiderable variation in cropping patterns,
not only in the sequence of crops grown, but also in the number of years a particular crop is grown on
the same plot. Variation in the length of rotation and in the sequence of crops causes complications for
block farming. After opening new land, family farmers usually grow cotton for two years followed by
one year of maize, or begin growing maize for one year followed by two years of cotton. After the first
three years, any of a wide range of crops--sorghum, groundnuts, rice, sesame, millet-may be grown.
When cassava is planted, it may be as long as six years before another crop is planted, or the land is left
fallow. It seems that a typical farm family in Nampula and Cabo Delgado grows 1.0-1.5 ha of maize
or cassava, 0.5 ha of beans or groundnuts, and 0.2-0.7 ha of cotton.
1.39         Farm Labor. All farm;ig operations are carried out by hand and no draught animals are
used. Competition for labor is strong between foodcrops and cotton, particularly during the planting
season (November-January) and the harvesting period (May-June). It seems that under the existing
technology Oack of draught animals and/or mechanization) and during the next several years, family
farmers will not be able to expand their cotton areas beyond one ha per family and also grow sufficient
foodcrops to meet their family needs.
1.40         Yields and Cultural Practices. The low and declining agricultural yields of the family
subsector are due to a combination of poor agro-techniques such as: inadequate land preparation; use of
poor quality seed with low germination rates; late planting; insufficient weeding; insufficient and
ineffective pest control; inappropriate crop rotation; and short fallow periods. While the impact of most
of these factors has been evident, the impact of soil fertility on family sector yields is difficult to assess
because of the prevailing land use patterns. On plots that have recently been cleared from bush,
reasonable levels of production may be obtained. If land is to be farmed continuously, however, fertility
issues will certainly have to be addressed, even with appropriate crop rotation. Results obtained by more
progressive smallholders show that yields in the family subsector can be substantially increased if
appropriate cultural practices are used. Even without the use of fertilizers, cotton yields can be easily
raised from 150-200 kg/ha at present to 350-400 kg/ha in the near future, maize from 500 kg/ha to 700-



- 10-
750 kg/ha, and beans from 250 kg/ha to 350 kg/ha. Provided adequate fertilizers and integrated pest
management are used, cotton can reach some 1,800 kg/ha, maize 4,200 kg/ha, and beans 1,200 kg/ha.
The JointVentureCmanis
1.41         An important and new feature in the project area is the Joint Venture Companies which
were recently set up for the growing, processing and sale of cotton (para 1.02). These companies, which
are external to the project and are not among is beneficiaries, are owned jointly by the Government and
private investors who hold the majority of the JVCs' shares and are completely responsible for operating
them. In the project area, three JVCs (Lonrho, Joao Ferreira dos Santos, and Grupo Entreposto) are
expected to grow some 15-25,000 ha of cotton. Each of these companies is granted an exclusive
concession to raise and gin cotton on its land for a period of 20 years, renewable for an additional ten
year period.
1.42         Under the terms of the concession and due to lack of funds and adequate personnel, the
SEA expects the JVCs to provide inputs and technical assistance to all the family farmers living in their
areas of influence who wish to participate in cotton production. In order to compensate the JVCs for
providing these services, each JVC has the exclusive right to buy cotton from the "family subsector and
cooperative' farmers within the boundaries defined in the concession. The JVCs may also negotiate with
the "private autonomous farmers" for the purchase of the cotton which that subsector might produce.
1.43         What is most significant in this setup is that technical assistance, inputs, and cotton
marketing are expected to be provided by the JVCs. While this might assure adequate assistance for
cotton growing, there are already signs that other crops, and in particular foodcrops, will not be
effectively promoted. It now seems that the GOM is convinced that small-scale farmers should: (a)
receive integrated agricultural services which take into consideration all crops included in their farming
systems; and (b) be provided with alternative sources and means for credit, input supply, and marketing
of produce.
Agricultural Services
1.44         General. MOA's functions are in direct support to the family subsector living in the
project area and are mainly carried out through, and/or are supported by SEA, DNDR, and INIA in the
areas of extension, research, and cotton marketing. Until recently, SEA provided cotton extension,
ginning, and marketing, and carried out some cotton research. It also managed an internationally funded
project: the UNDP/FAO Agricultural Extension Services project in Nampula and Cabo Delgado
Provinces. MOA's provincial set-up (PDAs) is carrying out very ineffective extension activities, and
INIA, due to lack of resources, is nearly inoperative in the project area.
1.45         Arcultural Extension. From pre-Independence until recently ( para 1.46), contact with
the family subsector in cotton growing areas was maintained through teams of "enquadradores" or field
registration staff of cotton growing companies, whose duties included: registration of growers at the start
of each season, demarcation of areas, distribution of seeds, and enforcement of approved cultivation
practices including spraying. Little of the 'enquadradores" work included teaching, advice and discussion
with farmers. Extension also omitted one crucial component to family farmers, namely the provision of
advice on the growing of foodcrops for the family's own consumption.



I1 -
1.46         Until 1990, cotton production and family-level extension activities were organized under
the Provincial Cotton Companies (PCC). These companies operated state sector farms and most of the
ginneries. They were responsible, until the transfer of their duties to the JVCs, for the procurement of
inputs, the provision of extension, and making arrangements for the purchase and transport of seed
cotton. At the provincial level, cotton extension was organized under the PCC's Family Sector Direutor
who supervised the Chiefs of the Areas of Influence. The ginneries drew their cotton from the Areas of
Influence which were divided into Zones under a Zone Chief. Each Zone Chief had the responsibility
for the work of a number of "enquadradores", varying from one to eighteen. The typical "enquadrador"
was responsible for cotton production in one to three villages with an area of cotton varying from 200
to 1000 hectares. The areas varied widely as did the reported yields. Staffing at the "enquadrador' level
was adequate although there was concern about their level of technical education and training. In general,
the 'enquadradores" are experienced field workers able to organize cotton production if given close
guidance and support.
1.47         Since 1981, SFA, supported by a UNDP/FAO project,' has attempted to modify the
existing structure of "enquadradores" into a system which is in practice similar to the standard Training
and Visit system of extension. The Project restricted its work to two provinces, Nampula and Cabo
Delgado, where two regional training centers were established, one at Namialo and a sub-center in
Montepuez. At these centers, a number of extension agents, "dinamizadores", and most of the Area and
Zone Chiefs were trained in crop husbandry practices and methods of communication. While the
approach appears to be correct, the effectiveness of the UNDP/FAO project has been rather limited so
far due to a series of adverse conditions such as delays in the recruitment of international staff and in the
delivery of project vehicles and supplies, inaccessibility of several cotton growing areas due to security
problems, and the continuing demand placed on the "enquadradores" by the PCCs to concentrate their
attention on cotton.
1.48         The effectiveness of extension seems to be greatly reduced by a number of difficulties
including, among others: (a) the use of an extension approach which uses excessive pressure on farmers
to cultivate cotton and tends to undervalue the experience and decision making capability of family
farmers; (b) inability to integrate cotton production with foodcrop production; (c) lack of qualified
supervisory staff and subject matter specialists; (d) lack of means of transport and facilities for both
supervisory staff and field workers; (e) irregular and untimely supply of inputs and delays in the purchase
of cotton; (f) low quality of supplied seed with low germination rates; (g) lack of farm-oriented research
on which to base extension to smallholders in cotton growing areas; (h) low relative prices for cotton
which discourages family farmers from growing cotton; and (i) the security situation which displaces the
rural population and seriously affects transport and marketing services.
1.49         Another important issue that effects the organization of extension field work is the special
emphasis put on the use of blocks for cotton and foodcrop production. While it is easier to organize and
supervise block production of cotton, continuous block farming requires more careful crop rotation and
soil management in order to avoid erosion and loss of soil fertility. Traditional farming on fragmented
individual plots facilitates crop rotation and the integration of cotton with foodcrop production within
separate farm units. This, however, requires the organization of a more demanding system of farm visits
by field extension workers.
I This project, entitled Agricultural Extension Services in Selected Food and Cotton Producing Areas
(MOZ/81/016), started in 1981. A second phase began in 1984 and was extended for a period of two
more years in 1988.



- 12 -
1.50          While DNDR is not responsible for field extension work, it nevertheless attempts to guide
extension activities carried out by the PDAs and their respective Rural Extension Service (RES). The
RES of Nampula reports having some 51 technicians and in Cabo Delgado there are 38 extension
personnel. Extension activities carried out by thest R1 *. seems ineffective due to lack of funds and
effective guidance and support.
1.51          Research. Prior to Independence, agricultural research focused almost exclusively on
estate or private sector agriculture.  After, Independence, the Instituto Nacional de Investigacao
Agronomica (INIA) was set up and more emphasis was placed on research on foodcrops and on making
the program more practically oriented. In the beginning, INIA concentrated much of its activities in
Maputo, but recently also began to carry out some research at a number of experimental stations in the
field. Nevertheless, despite INIA's attempts to reorient agricultural research towards the needs of the
family subsector and to make it more practically oriented, progress has been slow. Budget and technical
expertise constraints, coupled with extensive insecurity in rural areas, have resulted in an agricultural
research infrastructure that is weak in overall physical facilities and manpower. INIA has an inadequate
distribution of facilities and staff over the main agroecolagical regions of Mozambique. Presently, the
situation of agricultural research can be summarized in the following: (a) few available technologies
suitable for the family subsector; (b) inadequate system for defining smallholders' agricultural problems,
and for disseminating relevant technologies to them; and (c) severe shortages of skilled and experienced
human resources, as well as financial and capital resources.
1.52          Until 1962, cotton research was the responsibility of the Centro de Investigacao Cientifica
Algodoeira (CICA). With the establishment of the Instituto de Algodao de Mocambique (AM), this
function was transferred to the Instituto de Investigacao Agronomica de Mocambique (IIAM), the research
unit within IAM. In the last years before Independence, lAM's emphasis was on direct support to the
Portuguese cotton growers. IIAM developed a strong research program on cotton varieties, fertilizer
requirements and pest control. Through a network of research stations, the Institute was able to develop
varieties and cultivation practices suitable for family farming. Unfortunately, at Independence, many of
the Institute's officials left and existing research records were destroyed or lost. After Independence,
cotton research came to a virtual standstill until the early 1980s when SEA took over this function from
INIA. During the mid-1980s, French technical assistance was provided for cotton research. This lapsed
after one year because of the difficult conditions brought on by the deteriorating security situation.
Subsequently, SEA began to carry out a restricted research program at three locations: (i) in the
Nampula Province at the Posto Agronomico (30 ha) near Nampula; (ii) at Namialo where a suitable area
of about 300 hectares has been made available for research close to the Namialo ginnery and the cotton
training center; and (iii) in Cabo Delgado Province, where research is carried out on small plots (2 ha)
near Montepuez. Since 1987/88, the emphasis of SEA's research program has been on: screening
suitable varieties for the family subsector; single selection of existing Albars to recuperate their genetic
purity; testing insecticides and spraying methods (ULV and Electrodyne); and improving e hier cultural
practices such as fertilizer use and plant density and spacing. While the orientation of SEA's research
is correct, its results have been minimal so far due to serious under-staffing and severe shortages of
funds, equipment and materials.
1.53          Agro-chemical companies such as Bayer, Ciba-Geigy and recently ICI have undertaken
some field tests into weed and pest control, but their present programs are small and directed primarily
at proving the superiority of a particular treatment or method of application. The only other cotton
research currently being undertaken is by LONRHO in its cotton project in Sofala Province.



= 13 -
lnpti SL p       kin d Credit
1.54          Inputs required by the family subsector include seeds, insecticides, spraying equipment,
bags and occasionally fertilizers and hand tools. Cotton inputs were expected, but usualiy not provided
by the state cotton companies, which were also supposed to recover input costs from the seed cotton
proceeds. Cotton planting seed is produced by most of the existing gihneries, where it is also dressed
with fungicides, bagged, stored, and distributed, at a later stage, to farmers. Foodcrop seeds are mostly
grown by the farmers. However, the State Enterprise for Agricultural Marketing (AGRICOM) and
private traders, also sell seeds, and agricultural inputs such as bags, fertilizers, and hand tools to the
family subsector in the proJect area.
1.55     Mkting of foodcrops is presently free; any firm can engage in foodcrop marketing. Due
to the destruction of shops and the traditional lack of native traders, however, the number of active
traders in addition to AGRICOM is still relatively limited.
1.56          The JVCs' were granted concessions which provide them with a guaranteed area of
operation and an effective monopsony to purchase cotton. Through these concessions they are able to
purchase and sell cotton exclusively in their areas of influence (para 1.41). As in the case of other
regulated monopolies, the Government specifies minimum producer and export prices. While this may
be a suitable solution to rehabilitate Mozambique's cotton production, it is inconsistent with free market
principles and restrains trade. In order to offset these negative effects, efforts will be made under the
proposed Project to assist the cotton-producing family subsector through the formulation and
implementation of adequate pricing policies and the strengthening of the private traders network.
1.57          In the past, most of the ag icultural credit provided by Mozambique's credit institutions
was used to finance investments and operating losses of state enterprises, state farms and agro-industries
including the Provincial Cotton Companies. Hardly any credit went to the family subsector and very litde
was provided to the private farmers. More details on credit are given in Annex 2 and on the cotton
subsector in Annex 3.
Maior Development Constraints
1.58           Experience in the development of the agricultural sector in Mozambique, although
limited, demonstrates that this sector is constrained by the security situation; macro-economic policies;
institutional weaknesses; and pricing, marketing and trade policies. The current budgetary resource
allocation for the development of the agricultural sector and its related services (extension, research, and
marketing) is insufficient to reverse the decline in production and marketing. The lack of investment
credit in local financial markets restricts production. Long-term investment credit cannot be provided
through local resource mobilization. The scarcity of foreign exchange also limits the involvement of
commercial farmers and traders in production and marketing.  This situation inhibits the GOM from
implementing the agricultural components of its financial sector strategy, namely to increase the provision
of investment credit to commercial farmers and traders. Agricultural institutions are not equipped to
carry out their functions or to participate effectively in the rehabilitation of agricultural production due
to the scarcity of skilled manpower and management incentives. The GOM, with IDA's assistance, has
identified a strategy which will help overcome at least partially the restrictions created by these constraints
and to enhance long-term agricultural development sustainability. The strategy relies on the use of the
cotton subsector as one of the avenues for assisting the small-scale family subsector which is heavily
involved in food and cotton production. Such a development program will include the: gradual



- ll e
rehabilitation and upgrading of agricultural servicks at all levels; provision of investment credit to
commercial farmers and traders; upgrading of rural water supply infrastructure; provision of land
management services; and institutional strengthening of agencies involved.
G. IDA and Donors Involvement in Mozambique Agricultural Sfetor
1.59         IDA Involvement. IDA has provided credits to Mozambique since 1985. The first IDA
Rehabilitation Credit, for SDR 45.5 million, was used to improve the capacity of the Ministry of Trade
to procute inputs for the industrial, transport, and agricultural sectors. Participating enterprises benefitted
from improved access to spare 'parts, raw materials, and managerial technical assistance. The second IDA
credit, for SDR 15.6 million, was approved in May 1987 to support an Energy Rehabilitation and
Technical Assistance Project. In August 1987, a Second Rehabilitation Credit for SDR 54.5 million was
approved to support the Economic Recovery Program, which was financed through an IDA Credit, an
Africa Facility Credit, and a Swiss Special Joint Financing Grant. In 1988, two additional credits were
approved - a First Education Credit for SDR 11.7 million and an Urban Rehabilitation Credit for SDR
44 million. In 1989, a Health and Nutrition Credit for SDR 21.0 million, a Small and Medium
Enterprise Development Project Credit for SDR 25.1, million, a Credit for an Industrial Enterprise
Restructuring Project for SDR 40.0 inillion, an Economic and Financial Management and Technical
Assistance Project for SDR 16.5 million, the Beira Transport Rehabilitation Project for SDR 31.0 million,
the Urban Household Energy Project for SDR 17.1 million, and the Third Rehabilitation Credit for SDR
68.2 million were approved. In 1990, an Agricultural Rehabilitation anu Development Project for SDR
11.9 and a Second Education Credit for SD)R 38.7 million were approved.
1.60         The GOM also has carried out IDA-financed studies of the cashewnut, cotton, irrigation,
and forestry subsectors, which provide specific technical md economic recommendations for removing
constraints and fostering development in each subsector. In addition, IDA has carried out an Agricultural
Sector Survey and a Food Security Study to guide its short- and medium-term involvement in the sector.
The subsector studies together with the IDA survey and study have been used to help define the
Government's strategy in the agricultural sector.
1.61         Based on the various studies and surveys of the agricultural sector, the Government is
concentrating its limited resources on the implementation of simple cost-effective measures and increasing
the productivity of the small-scale family producer through the rehabilitation of key export crops (such
as cashew and cotton) where returns are likely to be immediate. After the preparation of the Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Development Project, the GOM made the decision to rehabilitate agricultural services
in cotton producing areas, as cotton has been, and is expected to continue to be, an important foreign
exchange earner. In addition, because production is mainly carried out by the family subsector, the GOM
decided to use this subsector as one of the main avenues for assisting the family producer in northern
Mozambique, and implement its policy and strategy to decentralize the decision makiaig process.
1.62         Donors Assistance. Many countries and international institutions such as the UNDP,
FAO, IFAD, AfDB, USAID, SIDA and the EEC have signed mutual cooperation and development
assistance agreements with the GOM, which also receives assistance from numerous NGOs. Assistance
takes various forms, ranging from relief for refugees and import financing to technical assistance. The
Mozambique Nordic Agricultural Program, which ceased in 1990, was until recently of major importance
to the agricultural sector. IFAD, the AfDB, EEC, and USAID are involved in the rehabilitation of the
agricultural and fisheries sectors, and are financing various projects, including rehabilitation of highways



15. 
and assistance to cashewnut, citrus, cotton, foodcrop, and forestry production. The adverse security
conditions in the country, however, still substantially reduces the planned impact of the assistance
programs. In addition, the Government in its Priority Districts Program (PDP) recognizes the need for
a more efficient approach to agricultural development, a decentralization of decision making, a closer
coordination of activities at the field level, and a better focusing of donor assistance.
1.63         Lessons Learned. IDA's first Credit for an Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development
Project has recently become effective. However, the limited experience in the development of the
Mozambican agricultural sector led to the design of a relatively simple project, which has a longer than
usual gestation period, operates through on-line and existing agencies, and is decentralized as much as
possible. In addition, based on experience in other African countries and regions, it is evident that an
appropriate policy environment is essential to agricultural development, and that public sector functions
should be restricted to those that cannot be successfully performed by the private sector. With respect
to agricultural credit, good recovery rates have been achieved by lending through informal farmer groups
(e.g., Malawi, Zimbabwe, and Indonesia). These lessons also have been incorporated in the design of
the proposed Project.
1.64         Rationale for Additional IDA Assistance.  In the context of the ERP, PFP, and
agricultural sector work, IDA has assisted the GOM in reforming agricultural and financial policies, and
in formulating strategies to stimulate the economy. The proposed Project is consistent with these
strategies, and it is also included in the PTIP (national three-year annual investment plan in the public
sector). Therefore, IDA involvement in this Project will ensure that the policy environment needed to
help sustain the ongoing economic upturn is continued, and that direct investment support is provided to
projects and subsectors providing key foreign exchange earnings such as the cotton subsector. In
addition, this involvement will help: better focus assistance to the family subsector through the
rehabilitation and coordination of agricultural services such as extension, research, and marketing; and
enhance a decentralized project implementation framework.



- 16 
II. The Projec
A. Prject Objectives, Beneficiaries ensMin F  tures
2.01          The main objective of the proposed Project is to increase production and returns from
foodcrop and cotton cultivation in the family subsector through the rehabilitation and development of
effective agricultural services and the strengthening of institutional capacity in the provinces of Nampula
and Cabo Delgado, where thie Government, with support from the private sector, is engaged in the
rehabilitation of the cotton industry. This rehabilitation is desirable for much of the area's family
subsector because cotton, which constitutes its main cash crop, is also well adapted to the production
environment of the northern provinces where other crops frequently fail. Cotton can tolerate relatively
low and erratic rainfall and still provide a cash income, particularly in areas where the only obvious
alternative is cashewnut. In addition, the family subsector in these provinces comprises some of the
poorest sections of the Mozambican rural population and new developments will directly benefit these
people. While it is necessary to give first priority to meeting the food needs of the rural population, it
is also clear that some level of cash income is both desirable and needed. There is evidence that rural
families are interested in growing cottoni for cash income, if the level and purchasing power of that
income makes it worthwhile.
2.02          Family subsector yields and overall production are low. Yields can be substantially
increased and raised to levels obtained in the early 1980s if family farmers are supported through an
integrated system of agricultural services comprising farm-oriented extension; applied research;
production and distribution of high quality seed; adequate input supply; provision of credit; marketing
of production; provision of water to reduce women's workload and to enable the use of water for
spraying; and land management services. By making use of the already existing but often poorly
functioning service infrastructure in the project area, and by taking advantage of the recent management
capacity build-up created by joint venture arrangements between the Government and private enterprises,
the Project will be able to contribute to the stated GOM policy of involving the private sector in
agricultural development and strengthening the decentralization of decision making and project
implementation to the provincial level.
2.03          The proposed Project will support the Government's efforts to implement policy reforms
in pricing and marketing, enable the GOM to carry out basic studies and surveys which will strengthen
agricultural sector management capacity and decision making, and guide the development of the
agricultural sector once the security situation is improved. The project design takes into account the
recommendations of the Agricultural Sector Survey and the agricultural subsector studies carried out with
IDA assistance. The Project is consistent with ongoing and/or planned activities under IDA and other
donor-financed projects in Mozambique. Finally, the Project is designed in a simple but effective fashion
to ensure simplicity in implementation, the provision of training to local personnel, and ease of
replication.
2.04          It is estimated that by the end of the eighth project year, the extension service will have
reached directly about 140,000 farming families (Annex 7, Table 13) who together will be cultivating
some 300,000 hectares: 225,000 hectares of foodcrops including maize, beans, groundnuts, rice and
cassava, and 75,000 hectares of cotton. Project beneficiaries reached by the agricultural credit component



- 17 -
will not exceed 30-35,000 families, while the other project components (land use and management and
rural water supply) will benefit more than 250,000 farming families.
2.05         Project interventions will include the provision of:
*   upgraded agricultural services such as extension and applied research;
e   working capital and investment credit for agricultural production and marketing;
   rural water supply facilities;
o   land use and management services; and
*   institutional development including training of MOA personnel.
The Project will finance the provision of technical assistance, training, incremental salaries, incremental
recurrent project operational costs, and the purchase of vehicles, equipment and materials. The Project
is estimated to cost USD 40.6 million; approximately 38% for agricultural services; 27% for working
capital and investment credit; 11 % for rural water supply development; 6% for land use and management
services; and 18% for institutional strengthening and other project costs. The project implementation
period will be about eight years, including a relatively long gestation period of about 2 years. This is
required since the country is presently in a transitional period, and needs a gradual and systematic built-
up of its local capacity.
B. Detailed PrQ3e8 t Features
Up~radine of Agricultural Services
2.06         In accordance with GOM's decentralization policies, the responsibility for overseeing the
project-financed upgrading of agricultural services will be in the hands of the provincial Governors of
Nampula and Cabo Delgado. The day-to-day implementation will be closely supervised by the PDAs
through their Program and Management Officers (PMOs) and the District Agricultural Officers (DDAs).
Close interaction between DNDR and INIA will be necessary. The former will continue to be in charge
of developing appropriate extension methodology and messages, and the latter will provide extension
technical backstopping, and support and train the Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs). Cotton quality
inspection and regulation of its production and marketing will continue, as in the past, to be carried out
by the State Secretariat for Cotton.
2.07         ;axtensi_n. The DNDR is in the process of developing a national rural extension network.
This network will operate through the Ministry's administrative structure at provincial and district levels.
Upon completior of a pilot phase in a few selected priority districts, the network is planned to be
expanded to cove, the 40 districts of the Ministry's new Priority Districts Program (PDP). Presently,
two distinct systems exist in the project area, namely "cotton production extension' provided by the JVCs
in coordination with the SEA, and "rural extension" carried out by the MOA through the PDAs and the
guidance of DNDR. The cotton production extension network which is operated by the JVCs consists
of "enquadradores" (para 1.46), a large number of whom have reached retirement age and are expected
to be gradually replaced by new staff.
2.08          The strengthening of the emerging MOA rural extension network (modified T and V
system carried out in districts and localities) will be included under the proposed Project in order to



- 18 -
enable the farming community in the project area to expand their cropping area and increase their overall
production. The following efforts will be made: (a) extension services will be provided to groups of
family farmers regardless of crops grown; (b) an extension network composed of trained extensionists,
with basic and medium level education who have participated in a 3-6 month crash cwurse on agricultural
technology and extension methodology (para 2.12), will be gradually built up; (c) regular fortnightly
training for junior staff and monthly training for senior staff will be carried out; (d) a regular well-
balanced work and field visit program for all staff will be instituted; and (e) mobility (i.e., bicycles,
motorcycles and four wheel-drive vehicles), as well as other necessary infrastructure will be provided.
2.09          New Field Extension Workers (FEWs) will ba recruited among the graduates of local
agricultural schools, at the average rate of 30 per year during the first six project years. These FEWs
will be incorporated into the rural extension system. FEW training will be conducted by MOA, and will
include training in technologies meant to safeguard the balance of existing agro-ecosystems and adequate
soil conservation methods. As a general guideline, each FEW will cover a geographical area containing
about 800 farm families. The FEW/farmer ratio should be decided according to workload, terrain, means
of transport, and density of population, and will be different for each FEW. Each 8-10 FEWs will be
supervised by a Divisional Supervisor. At the district level, an Extension Coordinator and necessary
agronomists (graduates) or technicians (diplomats) to serve as Subject Matter Specialists will be gradually
selected. Similarly, the provincial extension service will be supported during the first project years by
INIA's SMSs-agronomists (para 2.10). As research and extension activities develop, however, rural
extension will be assisted by full-time SMSs, and INIA by special agronomists/re-searchers.
2.10         Local experienced agricultural technicians and graduates will be recruited as candidates
for Subject Matter Specialists/agronomists. In the initial stages of the Project, such persons will be
recruited by INIA to begin producing messages based on available technologies suitable for the family
subsector; and to conduct the on-farm trials program for foodcrops and cotton financed by tFe Project.
These activities will provide appropriate training for future extension SMSs as well as a temporary base
for such staff until they take up their future posts in tie extension service. During this period, the SMSs
will also assist in the technical supervision of the FEWs, and will participate in their workshops.
2.11         During the implementation of the above efforts to strengthen the rural extension service,
the Project also will enter into a special agreement with one of the JVCs operating in the project area.
The intention of this agreement will be to allow the JVC to upgrade its ongoing cotton production service
within one or two districts and to transform it into the sole integrated extension activity providing
technical advice on all crops grown in the relevant district. This "special extension activity" will be
carried out over a period of 2-4 years and thereafter will be evaluated. Although the responsibility for
the implementation of the special extension activity will be in the hands of the JVC's management, the
PDA will monitor the program closely and will be a member of a proposed Monitoring and Advisory
Committee. DNDR's Head of Extension in Maputo will be coordinating this special extension activity
through the Component Coordinator with the collaboration of the PDA. The main new feature of the
proposed special extension activity implemented by the selected JVC will be the dissemination of
appropriate farming technology to all family farmers in the relevant district regardless of whether the
farmer grows cotton or not. A suitable contract will be drawn up between the MOA and the relevant
JVC. The proposed contract will ensure necessary conditions for the development of a balanced extension
service that will cater adequately to the development of all crops grown by the farmers, including
livestock, where relevant. Under this agreement, an agronomist specializing in foodcrops will be
nominated; "enquadradores" will gradually be trained or replaced by well-trained polyvalent extension
workers; an extension supervision and training program will be set up; and a work program including



- 19 -
visits by field staff to groups of farmers will be instituted.
2.12          Under the Project, MOA through the PDAs will carry out the basic training of extension
staff at all levels. This training will be conductud at the Namialo Training Center in groups of 20 to 25
trainees for a period of three to six months. Two to three such courses could be conducted per year.
The training syllabus will be similar to that already instituted in other areas by DNDR and the
FAO/UNDP Project and will be adjusted to the specific needs of the participants and the project area.
It will consist of: courses in agriculture and extension, including integrated pest management and soil
conservation; techniques which will be developed under the research component (para 2.19); basic
training in literacy, mathematics and language; courses for village and farmers leaders; and special
courses, workshops and seminars for extension, research and training staff. Staff will attend courses on
iiteracy, practical mathematics and language to bring them up to a level where they can benefit from the
technical courses. For staff needing such training, these courses will be offered as a condition for
entering the regular technical courses. The Namialo Training Center also will develop, test, and
implement a series of training courses designed for village and farmers group leaders who will take on
increasing responsibility for organizing family subsector production and for meeting the credit needs of
farmer groups. In addition, special courses, workshops, and seminars will be regularly organized to keep
extensionists, researchers, and trainers abreast of new technologies and developments and to offer them
an opportunity to exchange views and experiences on their work. The emphasis placed by the Project
on the farming systems approach, integrated pest management, environmental awareness and preservation,
and farmers organization, constitutes the basis for selecting the topics of these courses, workshops and
seminars. Existing technical manuals will be updated and distributed to future trainees. Recruitment and
selection of trainees will be the responsibility of the relevant PDAs in the project area, and will be carried
out under the guidance of DNDR. The PDA, Nampula province, will also be responsible for the partial
rehabilitation of the Namialo Training Center. This will include two classrooms, accommodation for 30
trainees and for the required teaching staff as well as other facilities. The PDA will provide for the
regular maintenance of the center, training equipment and other requirements. The Project will also
provide technical assistance and higher level training to extension and training staff. Short-term
consultants, especially in extension management (6 months), syllabus development including integration
of environmental awareness and safeguard in training (4 months), and design and development of
extension means (2 months) will be hired. Short courses and visits to neighboring countries will be
organized. In addition, external scholarships in agricultural extension (2), farm management (2), and
agricultural education (2) will be provided. Six scholarships for local graduate training, and six for
diploma training at local agricultural schools in Chimoio and Boane will be awarded to existing and new
staff.
2.13          Farmer organizations will be provided with organizational and development assistance
through Farmer Organization Teams (FOTs) which will be established in each district. A short-term
consultant--a Farmers' Organization and Credit Specialist-will be hired to help set up the FOTs and to
plan and initiate their activities. The FOTs will maintain close liaison with the extension and banking
systems (para 2.25) and the provincial representatives in the field to ensure a more participatory
involvement of farmers in extension and on-farm research and enhance their awareness of government
services, policies, availability of credit, and development opportunities.
2.14          The Project will finance, under this subcomponent, staff training, technical assistance,
demonstration materials, incremental salaries, incremental recurrent operational costs, vehicles, bicycles,
motorcycles, rehabilitation of infrastructure, office supplies and equipment.  The costs of this
subcomponent are estimated to be USD 10.8 million, or 26% of the total project costs. During



20 
negotiations, assurances were -.ained that a contract to provide extension cervices will be signed with
the selected JVC during the first project year. These services will be evaluated at the end of the third
project year, and a decision whether to expand the experiment will be taken and implemented not later
than the fourth project year (para 6.01(a)).
2.15          Annfied Research. The proposed program will aim to establish a modest resea..h
capacity in cotton breeding, basic seed production and storage, foodcrop production, integrated pest
management, and improvement of the dominant crop and livestock farming svstems. In order to avoid
scattering the country's scarce human resources for agricultural research, the Government has decided
that the cotton research program will be carried out by INIA. SEA's cotton research stations at Nampula
anu Namialo will thus be operated by INIA in collaboration with the PDA. Namialo will primarily be
involved in cotton research, but also will carry out field testing of improved varieties and farming systems
developed in the Nampula facility. SEA's functions with regard to research will be restricted to jointly
determining with INIA the priority areas of cotton research, and to liaising between INIA and the JVCs.
2.16          The foodcrop research program will focus on the development of improved production
technologies for crops like cassava, sweet potato, maize, sorghum, millet, beans and other vegetables
which are grown together with or after cotton. Research will try to adapt existing technologies to the
necessities of the family subsector living in the project area. Preliminary work involving the selection
of improved, high yielding and disease-resistant varieties, and determination of the economic viability of
fertilizer and pest applications, and appropriate plant populations and planting sequences, will be
undertaken at INIA's Nampula research station. An outreach program comprising on-farm technology
verification trials, which will also provide demonstrations of the improved technology developed at the
research station, will be established at Namialo (para 2.15).
2.17          There is also a need to start some agronomic longer tem stdies on soil and water
conservation, soil fertility and farm economics. Therefore, under the proposed Project, studies will be
initiated on: green manures, rotations, intercropping and the use of fallows as part of the soil fertility
studies; and alley cropping, vegetative strips and agro-forestry as part of the soil and water conservation
studies. These studies will be tailored to fit the farming systems of the family subsector as appropriate
trials will be conducted on family farms rather than research stations.
2.18          Technical assistance in the form of a part-time senior cotton breeder, guiding a full-time
cotton breeder for a period of about 3 years, will be provided under the Project. Their first task will be
to update and further detail the existing cottQn breeding program. It is envisioned that the initial activity
of the breeding program will be variety evaluation, using local selections of the Albar lines and selected
varieties imported from other breeding programs in the region and from areas with similar agro-ecological
conditions. Once higher yielding selections have been identified, and the appropriate staff have been
trained and have gained the necessary experience in plant breeding methodology, the hybridization and
subsequent breeding program can start. The objective of this program will be to select and develop new
high yielding, Jassid-resistant cultivars for the family subsector. Fiber and yarn characteristics will
receive special attention in order to meet the needs of the local textile industry and to ensure high-value
exports. The work that has already started on the selection and purification of high-performing Albar
lines will be intensified to produce enough high-quality foundation seed for multiplication by the JVCs
(or contract farmers) for their own use and/or distribution to smallholder cotton producers.
2.19          The objectives of pnated pst management (IPM) will be to develop pest management
(as opposed to control) practices utilizing insect-resistant varieties, scouting techniques, judicious use of



- 21 -
chemicals, application methods and equipment, biological control methods such as pheromones, predators,
parasites, and other practices such as crop rotation, proper field sanitation, and the like. The main
objective of IPM will be to develop methods adapted to Mozambique that will maintain the pest
population at a certain threshold which does not pose an economically significant reduction in yields and
yet minimizes possible environmental effects involved in the use of chemicals (in accordance with IDA
Guidelines). Once these methods are developed, they will be taught to FEWs (para 2.09) and
subsequently extended to project participants by the extension system. A local medium-level IPM expert
will be recruited for about 3 years, and will be guided by regular visits from an experienced higher level
IPM expatriate expert.
2.20          INIA's farming systems research  (FSR)  rogram  will be expanded to include
investigations to improve family farmer cropping and farming systems in the project cotton growing
areas. This research, which is mainly meant to promote maintenance of soil fertility and the rational use
of inputs, will be carried out largely on farmers' fields by small multi-disciplinary teams of researchers
(agronomists, economists, sociologists) and extensionists who will work in direct contact with farm
families in different agro-ecological zones. An agronomist with ample experience in FSR will be
recruited by the Project for about 3 years. This expert will also be assisted by short-term consultants in
various disciplines such as sociology and agricultural economics.
2.21          Research activities under the Project should be regarded as first steps in building up an
emerging national agricultural research service. In order to allow for a gradual build up, the proposed
research program initially will be carried out mostly by local consultants and expatriate personnel but
these will be gradually replaced by local staff after they have completed their training, either abroad or
in-country. Senior level research officers will be sent abroad for post-graduate training in research
management (2), cotton breeding (2), agronomy (2), integrated pest management (2), soil and water
management (1), and socio-economics (1). Local technicians will receive external or local short-term
scholarships in cotton and foodcrop research, pest management, farming systems research methodology
and data analysis.
2.22          The research subcomponent will finance staff training, technical assistance, incremental
staff salaries, incremental recurrent operational costs, research station improvements, office
accommodations, vehicles, and office and laboratory equipment and supplies. Total subcomponent costs
are estimated at about USD 4.8 million, or 12% of total project costs. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that: (a) the cotton and foodcrops research programs including the proposed cotton
breeding program will be reviewed and further detailed and agreed with IDA not later than one year after
credit effectiveness; and (b) the required local and expatriate staff for Namialo and Nampula research
stations will be identified and selected nine months after credit effectiveness (para 6.01(b)).
Provision of Credit
2.23          Project interventions will include the provision of seasonal working capital through the
banking system to the family subsector's low and high input users (paras 5.01-5.02) and rural traders.
Seasonal working capital credit to the family subsector, for the purchase of farm inputs such as improved
seed, fertilizers, insecticides, farm tools, spraying equipment and other agricultural implements, will be
provided under group credit arrangements (Annex 4). Credit to rural traders will be made on an
individual basis. It is estimated that over the period of project implementation, about 1,000 - 1,200
Credit Groups will be formed and given access to institutional credit. Thus, some 30,000 to 35,000
individual group members will benefit.  Higher input users in the family subsector will be granted



- 22 -
seasonal loans on an individual basis. In addition to covering the cost of production inputs mentioned
above, seasonal credit will finance the cost of hire charges for machinery services and aerial or
mechanized spraying, and the purchase of fertilizers. The size of individual family subsector credit
requirements and rate of uptake are detailed in Annex 4.
2.24          Individual loans for on-farm investments and incremental working capital are expected
to be provided from existing resovrces to some 500 commercial farmers to finance the purchase of inputs
and investments, mainly in agi.cultural machinery, trucks and pickups. Rural traders operating in the
project area and engaged in the supply and marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs will also be
eligible to borrow funds for working capital needed to increase and diversify their marketing activities
and, possibly, make credit sales to the rural population. The line of credit provided to the family
subsector and traders will be limited to up to USD 250,000 per loan.
2.25          Financing will be provided under the Project for a short-term internationally recruited
consultant experienced in Farmers' Organization and Credit (para 2.13). This consultant will also prepare
the groundwork and the administrative arrangements for group formation, including internal regulations
outlining the organization and management of Credit Groups which will be subscribed by each member,
standard formats for record keeping and accounting, and training programs for extension and bank staff
and for Credit Group officials.
2.26          The Project will also finance: (a) the provision of training related to the organization and
operation of group credit to PFI's personnel and credit group officials; (b) incremental administrative
expenditures related to group credit operations incurred by financial intermediaries during the first five
years of the Project; (c) investments in vehicles, motorcycles and office equipment to facilitate efficient
credit delivery and loan servicing; and (d) a short-term credit specialist (four months) to advise BPD in
the organization and management of its credit departments at headquarters and in the provinces, prepare
a lending operations and procedures manual, and upgrade BPD's reporting and information systems on
lending operations and loan collections.
2.27          The costs of the credit component are estimated at USD 10.9 million, or 27% of total
project costs, of which about USD 8.1 million will be in a revolving fund for seasonal working capital
loans to farmers and rural traders; USD 1.5 million will be beneficiaries' participation; and the remaining
USD 1.3 million will be used to strengthen credit institutions and train their personnel.
Upgradina of Rural Water Supply
2.28          Lack of adequate water supply in rural areas is a major constraint to family subsector
development. The poor quality of water from traditional sources contributes to the wide incidence of
waterborne diseases. In addition, an enormous amount of time and effort is spent by family members,
especially women, in providing for daily water requirements; and in cotton-growing areas, water is
needed for adequate pest management. With support from various donors, a program of well construction
has started. Due to the non-participation of contractors in the construction of dispersed wells located in
rural areas, the GOM decided to purchase necessary equipment and tn carry out well construction, by
force account, by the various Provincial Water Workshops (EPARs) of the Provincial Directorates for
Construction and Water (DPCA), through the State Companies for Borehole Drilling and Development
(GEOMOC). While the status of well construction in Cabo Delgado, which is assisted by the Swiss
government, is satisfactory, in Nampula, where investments have been limited, it is especially critical and
only a small number of the required wells and boreholes have been constructed so far. Of the estimated



- 23 -
required 4,500 wells and 750 boreholes, only 480 wells and 120 boreholes exist and even these are
functioning poorly at present. Therefore, the Project will concentrate its support on this province and
will finance: (a) rehabilitation of existing rural water supply facilities and construction of new ones; (b)
provision of equipment and guidance needed for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of these systems;
and (c) design and assistance in the implementation of a plan to mobilize rural communities and enhance
their involvement in the O&M of rural water supply systems.
2.29         Under the Project, an Inventory of Rural Water Supply Infrastructure will be carried out
by PRONAR. This survey will indicate the location, present condition, operation and maintenance
arrangements, and needs for rehabilitation, if any, of existing water supply facilities in Nampula
Province. Based on this survey, an Operation and Maintenance Study will be carried out by a short-term
consultant. This study will help to define measures to be taken for the establishment of an improved and
decentralized operation and maintenance system for rural water supply, including provision of, and access
to, spare parts and supplies and training of personnel and users. In addition, data gathered during the
survey will be used to upgrade the existing rural water development plans to a five-year Rural Water
Development Plan for the Nampula Province. This plan will be updated annually and will include:
strengthening of existing data on rural water supply requirements; reassessment of possible development
options; and revision of the detailed development plans for rural water supply activities to be financed
under the component and other sources. Present community invclvement in the O&M of existing water
supply systems will also be reviewed and a plan to improve the community and NGOs' mobilization
approach, procedures, and arrangements will be formulated. Detailed agreed-upon terms of reference
for the above survey, review, and study are given in Annex 5. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Rural Water Supply System Inventory, the Operation and Maintenance Study, and the
Review of Community Involvement in rural water supply O&M, will be carried out during the first
project year, and that new facilities will be built only in localities where beneficiaries agree to operate
and maintain them. The preparation of the five-year Rural Water Development Plan will be carried out
during the second project year. The recommendations of the above studies and plan will be presented
to IDA for review and comment, and agreed upon recommendations will be implemented thereafter (para
6.01(c)); and satisfactory completion of the Operation and Maintenance Study and the Review of
Community Involvement in rural water supply O&M will be conditions for disbursement on the civil
works included in this component (para 6.02 (a)).
2.30         Based on the satisfactory past experience, the EPAR of the Provincial Directorate of
Construction and Water in Nampula, under the Project, will rehabilitate existing wells and boreholes and
build new ones. The program for the rehabilitation of existing wells and boreholes, and construction of
new ones, and their location will be determined by the DPCAs in consultation with project beneficiaries,
the provincial government, the Ministry of Construction and Water (MCA) (where PRONAR coordinates
all rural water works), and in coordination with NGOs. Project funds for this purpose will be channeled
through MCA/PRONAR.
2.31         The Project, under this component, will finance technical assistance, training, construction
material and equipment, vehicles, incremental recurrent operational costs, and office equipment. Total
component costs are estimated at USD 4.4 million, or 11% of total project costs.



- 24 -
Land Use and Management
2.32          The main objective of this component, which will cover the entirety of the provinces of
Nampula and Cabo Delgado, is to establish a technically sound and socio-economically acceptable basis
for improved land use and management. Project funds will be allocated for the collection, analysis, and
presentation of basic data on land tenure and use and soil conservation needs. These data will be
subsequently used by relevant institutions such as DINAGECA on land tenure, titling and registration;
and INIA in the formulation of adequate policies and guidelines for soil conservation. This component
will, in the long run, facilitate the allocation of sufficient and suitable land to the family subsector;
development and conservation of land resources; and application of environmentally sound cultivation
practices for sustainable agriculture. Provincial teams and headquarters staff of DINAGECA, INIA, and
the extension service, which will be strengthened under the Project, will contract and/or supervise and
carry out the following activities: aerial photography; ground verification of aerial data; eadastral
mapping; collection of socio-economic, agronomic, and land tenure general information; assessment of
soil conservation needs; formulation of soil conservation packages; and promotion and monitoring of the
impact of project soil conservation and land management practices. In addition, a study comparing the
impact of titling policies in the Projo ct and in other areas in Mozambique will be carried out under the
Project. Detailed terms of references for the study were agreed upon during project preparation and are
given in Annex 5. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the study on titling impact will
be carried out according to agreed-upon terms of reference during the third project year (para 6.01(d)).
2.33          Proposed activities will permit the Division for Cadastre within DINAGECA, through
aerial photography, ground verification and cadastral mapping, to reassess the customary land tongre
m  in the provinces of Nampula and Cabo Delgado. This is particularly important given that the
great majority of the rural population lives and works within such systems. Subsequently, through careful
analysis of data on land use and tenure in the family subsector, and the recommendations of the study
on land titling to be carried out under the Project, the GOM will be able to formulate and implement land
tenure policies which protect the interests of the small-scale family producer.
2.34          The aerial photography and cadastral mapping provided to the Cadastre Division will also
facilitate egis=ting and rcordingof leasehQld titles and of rights to land when requested by individuals
and groups, and will enable the development of a viable strategy to demarcate customary land areas and
register them as family subsector land if GOM so decides.
2.35          Finally, the results of soil analysis together with the agronomic and socio-economic
information provided by the Project will allow INIA to design and recommend s1  GODIOUdim
packages.  The extension service, to be strengthened under the Project (paras 2.07 - 2.14), will
subsequently incorporate these packages into its delivery system and promote their implementation by
project participants.
2.36          The Project, under this component, will finance the following local and international
specialists: one land tenure specialist (12 months), one senior agriculturalist (12 months), two pedologists
(12 months each), two data processors (12 months each), four junior sociologists (32 months each), and
four junior agronomists (32 months each). The Project will finance incremental salaries, staff training,
technical assistance and office improvements, equipment and supplies, and vehicles. The component will
also finance the carrying out of a study (para 2.32), as well as subcontracts witi participating agencies
for the carrying out of surveys, remote sensing and aerial photography, photo interpretation and
cartography. Component costs are estimated at USD 2.5 million, or 6% of total project costs.



- 25 -
Institutional Development
2.37         Technical assistance will be provided to strengthen staff capabilities at the central and
provincial levels. Special efforts will be made to improve management, planning and programming,
accounting and budgeting, procurement, pricing policy analysis, and monitoring and evaluation of
implementation activities. The Unit for Development Activities (UDA) to be set up under the Vice
Minister for Agriculture, will receive particular attention since during project inception it also will be in
charge of economic analysis and long-term planning of the cotton subsector, including definition of a
cotton pricing policy; and of coordination, monitoring and evaluation o. project implementation.
Therefore, the Project Coordinator (PC) and his assistant (para 3.03) will be assisted, especially during
project start-up, by consultants specializing in the following areas: coordination and management (20
months), planning and organizational procedures (5 months), financial control (10 months), and
procurement (3 months). In addition, external audit costs will be provided by the Project. Consultants
will be allocated to the relevant operational units in MOA and will advise, as a group, the PC and his
assistant. The coordination and management consultant will assist in setting up systems and procedures
for the coordination, monitoring and financial control of the Project. The planning and organizational
procedures consultant will work closely with the project coordination and management consultant in
developing the tools necessary for project management and in selection of software suitable for application
in this Project. The financial control consultant will develop and institute a financial control and
accounting system for the Project. The procurement consultant will develop simple procedures for the
procurement of services and equipment in accordance with IDA and Government of Mozambique
requirements. A major responsibility of all of the above will be to train local staff in carrying out their
professional duties, both on the job and in special semninars.
2.38         In each of the two provinces, the Governor will chair a provincial Field Coordinating
Committee. This conmmittee will consist of a small team to deal with coordination of project-financed
activities, and will include a provincial Field Project Coordinator, a monitoring and evaluation officer,
a bilingual secretary, and drivers. The provincial Field Project Coordinator will work closely with the
above expatriate specialists in setting up coordinating mechanisms at the provincial and district levels.
Detailed terms of reference for the above consultants and incremental staff are given in Annex 5.
2.39         Monitoring and evaluation of project activities will be coordinated by MOA, which also
will be strengthened for this purpose. A core team will be located in the DEA Department of Monitoring
and Evaluation, and will include a project Monitoring and Evaluation Coordinator, an assistant, and
secretarial staff, in addition to the two M&E officers posted in the provinces (para 2.38). This core team
will be assisted during various periods by the following expatriate and local consultants: an M&E expert
(30 months), a programmer (4 months), and a rural sociologist (1 month). In addition, staff of involved
agencies will be trained in M&E workshops carried out by local and international consultants.
2.40         Pricing policies analysis also will be carried out by UDA. The main objective of this
activity will be to ensure that farmgate prices reflect the changing economic parameters, in order to
achieve a more competitive seed cotton market and provide better incentives to growers. It is expected
that after the pricing policies analysis is carried out, immediate improvements will be made in the
farmgate price of seed cotton, in line with prevailing border prices and exchange rates, and in the
development of related industries (oil and textiles) and policies. Subsequently, interim trade arrangements
to carry the cotton subsector through a transition period towards a fully liberalized economy, will be
designed. The UDA will, therefore, be strengthened by the following core team of staff and local
consultants: an agricultural economist, an expert in pricing and marketing, and two general economists



- 26 -
(6 years each). This core team will be supported by expatriates: experts in agricultural pricing policy
(6 months), agricultural marketing and rural surveys design (2 months each), and agro-industry and cotton
grading (1 month each); and a senior agricultural economist (2 months). In addition, MOA staff will be
trained locally and abroad in pricing analysis, marketing, and rural survey design.
2.41          In addition to technical assistance, this component will finance the provision of local and
foreign training, incremental salaries, vehicles and office equipment and supplies. The costs of this
component will be about USD 5.8 million, or 14% of total project costs. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that: (a) consultants will be selected and hired on terms and conditions agreed with IDA
and in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants; (b) a standard contract for hiring
consultants financed with Credit proceeds will be cleared by the relevant division in the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) within 30 days of its presentation; (c) a farm- and factory-gate pricing system for cotton,
based on border prices, will be designed and discussed with IDA during the first year of the Project and
implemented thereafter. This pricing system will be subsequently updated yearly and implemented; and
(d) the Monitoring and Evaluation Core Team will be nominated not later than six months after credit
effectiveness (para 6.01(e)).



- 27 -
111. Protect Implementation
A. Organization and Manag.ement
3.01         General. The main organizational concepts adopted are that project implementation wIll
be decentralized to the provincial and district levels, and no new institutions and/or entities will be created
for the purpose of implementing the proposed project activities. All actions will be undertaken by
existing on-line institutions which will be strengthened whenever necessary. Special attention will be
given to the provincial institutions which must gain the necessary expertise to carry out their assigned
functions. The main role of project coordination will be to facilitate implementation by removing
bottlenecks. Planning, programming and budgeting of the central organizations will be a bottom-up
process, initiated by the district/provincial institutions, and subsequently reviewed and cleared by MOA
(Annex 1, Chart 3). Government in Mozambique is already decentralized and as such is suited to the
dispersed type of decision-making and implementation authority envisaged for this Project. Considerable
authority already has been devolved to the provincial level where the Government's main implementing
bodies at the field level are found.
3.02         MOA, through the UDA, will have overall responsibility for coordinating implementation
activities, and will retain project financial control. This does not imply or require a detailed item-by-item
control, nor will it duplicate the process carried out by the MOF, but rather UDA/MOA will make a
general review of the project Annual Development Program (ADP) (para 3.18) and budget to ensure that
component planned activities are consistent with long-term objectives and programs. Similarly, an annual
review of financial, physical and institutional progress during the previous year will be carried out jointly
by UDA and each participating institution. Review of past activities and approval of the program and
budget by UDA/MOA should be preconditions for MOF's approval of the expenditure of project funds.
3.03         MOA, as the institution in charge of coordinating project implementation, appointed a
Project Coordinator (PC), whose nomination has been agreed to by IDA. The PC, who will be a part
of the UDA, will have a full-time Assistant PC, to manage day-to-day affairs. Each participating
institution will appoint, at the central level, a Component Coordinator (CC) agreeable to IDA, to be
responsible for facilitating the implementation of the component and to ensure that all agreements are
carried out. The Component Coordinator will be a person of recognized authority in his/her institution.
Where necessary, a special assistant will be assigned to the CC to deal with day-to-day issues and to alert
the Component Coordinator to special problems requiring his/her intervention. The Project Coordinator
will be responsible for ensuring that each Component Coordinator presents a consolidated component
annual development plan, that these plans are consistent with each other, and are mutually supportive.
The project ADP will be reviewed and approved in a session attended by all the Component
Coordinators.
3.04         UDA will be in charge of: annual planning, programming and budgeting of agricultural
development activities; and review and approval of plans, programs and budgets of participating
institutions. The PC will be in charge of: integration of component plans into an Annual Development
Plan (para 3.18); inter-institutional coordination; project accounting and disbursement through existing
units in MOA (para 4.11); project monitoring, periodic evaluation and review through a Management
Information System and an Impact Evaluation System (paras 3.21-3.24); reporting to IDA; participation



- 28 -
in developing a research program; price analysis and recommendations on cotton pricing (para 2.40);
guidance in procurement procedures for all participating institutions; procurement of UDA's needs; and
training of its own staff (Annex 8).
3.05         A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), to coordinate the implementation of project
activities, will be established;. It will be chaired by the Minister for Agriculture or any other senior
official appointed by him (Annex 1, Chart 4). The Project Coordinator will serve as its Secretary and
all Component Coordinators will be members. Component Coordinators will divide their time between
home office, field supervision, and the project Coordinating Office. Initially, the frequency of PCC
meetings will be greatest during planning, programming and budgeting; as implementation goes into high
gear, more time will be spent in the offices of the individual institutions and in the field. Project
coordinating meetings, however, should always be held at least once every quarter. The setting up of
the Unit for Development Activities, the establishment of the Project Coordination Committee and the
appointment of the Component Coordinators will be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para 6.03 (a)).
3.06         Each province will have a Field Coordinating Committee (FCC) which will meet once
every two months to hear reports on the implementation of each component and to resolve problems that
arise. The FCC will alert the provincial Governors, the Project Coordinating Committee, and the
Component Coordinators of problems requiring their intervention. The Governor of each province will
chair the FCC. He will appoint a provincial Field Project Coordinator to deal with day-to-day affairs
of the Project and to act as Secretary of the FCC. The provincial Field Project Coordinator will be
responsible for seeing that the FCC's decisions are carried out. He/she will have direct lines of
communication to the Project Coordinator and to the Provincial Governor. He/she will be invited to all
meetings of the Field Coordinating Committee and will receive copies of the minutes of all such meetings.
Minutes of all provincial coordinating meetings will be sent to the Project Coordinator. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that coordination arrangements at the provincial level will be
effected not later that six months after Credit effectiveness (para 6.01(f)).
3.07         Ininlementing Agencis.   The following entities will be involved in project
implementation: UDA, INIA, DNDR, DINAGECA, PDA Nampula, PDA Cabo Delgado, the banking
system, and PRONAR. Of the bodies listed above, the first six are organizational dependencies of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The banking system is autonomous, and PRONAR is an organ of the Ministry
of Construction and Water (MCA). The management functions of the participating institutions will be:
annual planning, programming and budgeting of their specific ccmponent; procurement of needs (human
and material); implementation of planned activities; monitoring and corrective action whenever necessary;
periodic evaluation and review; inter-institutional coordination and problem solving; component
accounting; and reporting.
3.08         DNDR, the institution responsibe for developing a national extension methodology and
extension messages, will have to strengthen existimig mechanisms and develop closer and more direct
linkages with the provincial and district extension managers and staff, and through them with the JVC
selected to carry out the "special extension activity" (para 2.11), in order to ensure that the extension
methodology and training are implemented as planned in the project area. The extension Component
Coordinator in DNDR, the PDA, and the RES along with the relevant district extension staff, should
personally attend to the start up of extension activities in each district, whenever it is incorporated into
the Project. They should actively assist district extension staff to introduce the system and to resolve
start-up problems. At the end of each season, they should again together attend a session of the district
extension staff, to learn first hand the problems encountered and the way these were handled, in order



- 29 -
to incorporate the lessons into future work. The JVC selected to participate in carrying out the "special
extension activity" will independently manage extension in its area of influence. It may seek MOA
assistance whenever needed.
3.09          INIA has at present very little in the way of field research organization and facilities in
Nampula and in Cabo Delgado. The existing experimentation fields at Namialo will be developed and
placed under the supervision of INIA (para 2. 15). The professional staff required for the research will
be hired especially for this purpose and will report to INIA. INIA and SEA staff will jointly evaluate the
results and provide the necessary direction and guidance on research matters to the PDAs. The PEP will
maintain close and regular ties with the research stations in their provinces, through formal meetings to
be held at the research station at least once every semester for all professional extension staff from the
surrounding area. At such meetings research staff will inform extension personnel of experiments in
progress and of results obtained. Extension staff will present issues and problems which they have
confronted in the field.
3.10          _redi component funds will be channelled through the banking system. Working capital
credits to small-scale family producers will be provided under group credit arrangements which will be
tested and subsequently established under the Project (Annex 4). Other project beneficiaries, including
high-input using family producers and rural traders, will be granted individual loans by the participating
financial intermediaries (PFIs).  As under ongoing Bank Group-financed projects, the Bank of
Mozambique (BM) will act in both capacities -- as the Central Bank (BM-Central), and as one of the
participating financial intermediaries (BM-Commercial).
3.11         Funds allocated to the line of credit will be onlent by the Government, in local currency,
to BM-Central, in accordance with a Subsidiary Administration Agreement to be entered into between
BM-Central and the Government, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. BM-Central will
onlend the funds to the participating financial intermediaries. BM-Comnercial, BPD and BSTM will be
eligible to operate as PFIs and carry out project-financed lending activities, provided that each one has
entered into a Participation Agreement with BM-Central, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
At negotiations assurances were obtained that above arrangements will be followed (para 6.01(g)). The
foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government. This is necessary given the type of expected
credit beneficiaries, the large majority of whom have never had access to institutional credit or other
banking services and are totally unfamiliar with banking practices and procedures; under these
circumstances it will not be feasible to have credit end-users bear foreign exchange risks. A portion of
the interest charged to end-users, estimated to average around 22% at the currently prevailing interest
rates, will be retained by the Government, through BM-Central, to cover interest and other charges on
the IDA credit and to offset the foreign exchange risk.
3.12          Subloans provided under the line of credit will be for seasonal working capital and will
be repaid annually after harvesting and marketing of produce. Funds withdrawn from the Credit account
for seasonal working capital loans will be repaid by the PFIs to BM-Central on maturity dates of subloans
and will be kept by BM-Central in a special revolving fund account and utilized annually for refinancing
working capital credits provided by PFIs under the Project. Withdrawals from the Credit account are
to be based on incrementality. Incremental seasonal credit will be defined as the aggregate amount of
credit for inputs, etc. provided to family producers and other eligible project beneficiaries in any crop
year, from October I to September 30, less the highest aggregate amount of such credit provided in any
of the preceding crop years. It is proposed that the spread for PFIs be provisionally set at 32% of the
accrued interest or finance charges. This is based on an estimate of the cost of credit delivery and loan



- 30 
servicing to family producers under group credit arrangements. Spreads will be reviewed at the time of
the annual review of the interest rate structure and revised as necessary. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the above arrangements will be followed (para 6.01(h)). The prospective beneficiaries of
project-iinanced subloans will be allowed to apply for credit from any of the PFIs. It is expected that
family producers, both individually and under group credit, however, will oe served by BPD because of
its wide network of branches in the rural areas; other eligible credit beneficiaries will be served by either
BM-Commercial or BPD. BSTM is unlikely to participate in lending because of its very minor
involvement in providing credit to the agriculture sector and its lack of representation in rural areas.
3.13          Potential credit beneficiaries, including women who in Mozambique have access to
agricultural services and credit, will prepare loan applications with the assistance of the credit technicians
of the PFIs. Because the autonomy of the PFIs is accepted as a guiding principle by GOM, they will
select eligible beneficiaries, in accordance with their own loan analysis and related procedures. PFIs will
review and appraise subproject applications and submit to BM-Central a summary information sheet for
each subloan, in a standard format to be prescribed by BM-Central, for refinancing approval. IDA will
review a sample of subloans, on an ex-post basis during project supervision. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that receipt by IDA of a satisfactorily signed and authorized Sutbsidiary Administration
Agreement between the Government and the Central Bank, and Participation Agreements between BM-
Central and the PFIs, and approval by IDA of a model Subloan Agreement, wvill be conditions for
disbursing funds from the line of credit (para 6.02(b)).
3.14          Subloans granted under the line of credit will be denominated in meticais and will finance
up to 100% of the cost of purchased inputs in the case of group credit to family producers. Individual
borrowers will be required to contribute, in cash or in kind, not less than 10% of subproject costs. The
interest charged on subloans to final beneficiaries will correspond with the prevailing structure of interest
rates (Annex 2). Seasonal loans to Farmers' Groups will bear a fixed finance charge, equivalent to the
prevailing interest rate and calculated for the projected period from disbursal to final repayment (Annex
4). The Government and IDA, under this and other ongoing operations, plan to review each year,
starting not later that March 31, 1993, the structure and level of interest rates and the level of spreads
for PFIs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that onlending arrangements, subloan processing
procedures, lending terms, conditions and interest rates will be followed (para 6.01(i)).
3.15          UDA will guide closely the implementation of the land use and management component,
and will appoint a Component Coordinator who will detail the land use strategy for application by the
provincial appraisal teams; arrange for the collection and supply of required information; and guide UDA
in the review of appraisal results and the programming, monitoring and evaluation of field work. During
the first two years of project implementation, the Component Coordinator will be assisted by an
internationally recruited land tenure specialist. The methodology for data collection and analysis, the
working arrangements needel to carry out this component and the contracts to be signed with various
subcontractors will be fully detailed during the first six months of the Project by the CC. During
negotiations, assurances to this effect were obtained (para 6.01()). DINAGECA, which is responsible
for mapping and land titling, will manage the bulk of its component from its central office in Maputo.
Teams for surveying and mapping will be sent to the field to carry out their activities and will dispatch
the data to the center for processing as it becomes availab:e. After an area is completed, field teams will
be shifted to another area. Mapping will proceed according to the overall component development plan
prepared yearly by the Component Coordinator.



- 31 -
3.16         The liampula Directorate for Water and Construction will be responsible for the planning
and supervision of implementation of the rural water supnlv component at the provincial level. The
rehabilitation of existing wells and small piped water supply systems, and the construction of new ones
will be carried out by the Provincial Departments of Water and Sanitation (DWS) through the Rural
Workshops (EPAR) and their district setup. Considerable input for rehabilitation and construction,
mainly in labor, will be provided by component beneficiaries. Since local communities wIll have a
leading role in the O&M of water supply facilities, special attention will be paid under the Project to the
strengthening of the community mobilization systems and the upgrading of their O&M capabilities, which
will be carried out in coordination with NGOs already working in the project area.
3.17         PRONAR is already active in: (a) promoting new water supply sources; (b) developing
maintenance systems; and (c) supervising implementation which will continue to be carried out by the
DWS. Coordinating mechar.isms and monitoring systems are already in place. Under the Project, these
mechanisms will continue to be applied and improved where necessary. Reports from the province to
PRONAR will be used in project monitoring of this component.
Programming of Activities
3.18         An Annual Development Program (ADP) will be prepared by the Project Coordinator to
organize implementation and monitor project progress. The ADPs will include: (a) preliminary review
of implementation during the previous year; (b) i detailed description of work to be carried out in the
forthcoming year including objectives, staff training, monitoring and evaluation activities, deployment
of staff and equipment, construction plans, and procurement schedules; (c) requirements for additional
staff and inputs; (d) requirements and arrangements for technical assistance, and local and foreign
training; and (e) a budget and financing plan, including local and foreign currency requirements. The
ADP, which will consist of a bottom-up exercise, will be prepared by eacl. of the participating
institutions, and will also coincide with the budgeting cycle of the GOM. A development plan will be
prepared for each district for each year and the relevant Component Coordinator will assist the provincial
authorities in consolidating the development plans of all the districts into a provincial development plan.
Subsequently the CC will consolidate the provincial development plans into an annual component
development plan to be incorporated in the ADP. Once the budget has been voted, the ADP will be
adapted to budgetary allocations and finalized. To formalize the ADP and to reinforce accountability,
each year an agreement will be signed which defines the actions to be undertaken by each of the
implementing institutions and the goals, in quantitative terms, to be achieved during the year. It wIll also
define the resources to be assigned by the institution to the component during the coming year. The
Project Coordinator, the Component Coordinator, and the Director of the implementing institution wIll
sign the agreement. Where relevant, a provincial representative will also be a signatory to the agreement.
The signed agreement will be a condition for the assignment of the required funds from the proje.& budget
by the Ministry of Finance.
Bi-annual and Mid-term Proiect Implementation Reviews
3.19         Joint Government/IDA project implementatior. reviews will be held every two years, and
a mid-term project implementation review will be held four years after the Project has started, and not
later than July 1996. Specifically, the mid-term project implementation review should assess the impact
of the: implementation of the cotton pricing policies; agricultural extension activity carried out by the
JVC, involvement of the communities in the carrying out of the O&M of the rural water supply
component, formation of farmer groups and credit uptake. Overall, these reviews will take into



- 32 -
consideration data compiled by the project Monitoring and Evaluation System (MES) (paras 3.20 - 3.24)
and will cover the impact of the Project on small-scale family producers' development, and the effect of
the Project on the farming community, particularly female farmers and farmers' organizations.
Assurances to that effect were obtained at negotiations (para 6.01(k)). The results of the review will be
used to determine changes that may be needed to improve project implementation, and to decide on the
need for project extension or for a follow-up phase.
RIporting. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.20         The Project Coordinator, assisted by the Component Coordinators, will prepare
semi-annual progress reports describing the physical and financial progress of the Project and its impact
to date. These reports, which will also include a description of the flow of project funds, wIll reach IDA
not later than three months after the end of each semester. In addition, within six months of completing
the Project, UDA/MOA will deliver to IDA a project completion report describing all aspects of the
Project's benefits to farmers and to the country. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations
(para 6.01(1)).
3.21         Data required for the above reports will be generated by an MES consisting of a
Management Information System (MIS) and an Impact Evaluation System (IES). MOA, in coordination
with other implementation agencies, will be responsible for the implementation of the two systems, both
at headquarters and in the field. The design and implementation schedules for the systems already have
been agreed upon.
!          3.22          The MES has been designed using improvement of local capabilities as the primary
measure of project performance. The system will generate data required for conducting annual impact
evaluation exercises at the end of each cropping year. Moreover, the data generated will be available for
use in preparing the project implementation review (para 3.19) and project completion report.
3.23         The MIS will generate data needed for day-to-day management of project activities,
review of the previous year's activities, and identification of changes needed in Project and component
management procedures. The MIS was designed specifically to: (a) provide central and regional staff
with up-to-date information on the Project to enhance decision making; (b) improve the internal
coordination of communications between the agencies implementing different components; and (c) provide
a data base for periodic and ex-post evaluations for the Project's impact. The system will track
management interventions to ensure that key implementation targets are achieved such as those pertaining
to staffing and training, recruitment of consultants, procurement activities, record keeping, and reporting
schedules. The system also will measure the effectiveness of project activities in terms of improving
input telivery and financing, produce marketing, the performance of JVCs, and the performance of the
banking system and project financed lending operations, and increasing private investment.
3.24          The IES will be divided into two subsystems, namely an internal "ongoing evaluation"
to be carried out mainly by the project M&E team in collaboration with involved agencies; and an "in-
depth evaluation" to be in large part implemented by multi-disciplinary external teams assisted by the staff
of local agencies. While ongoing evaluation will consist of rapid field surveys of a small number of
randomly selected families, in-depth evaluation will include 3-4 case studies, a baseline survey, and mid-
term and end-of-project evaluations (paras 3.19 - 3.20). Thus, the IES is expected to generate data
needed to assess the project's institution building achievements, its impact, and its cost-effectiveness
relative to national agricultural objectives and strategies. The IES will track the achievement of such
quantifiable benchmarks as the completion of training programs and the return of permanent staff, the



- 33 -
satisfactory replacement of local and expatriate consultants, and the completion and acceptance by the
Government of major policy studies and recommendations for management improvement. It will assess
performance against the annual work program and budget, and identify constraints and solutions. lhe
system also will compare the staff retention and morale levels of the Project with those of other
government agencies, and survey farmer reactions to improvements in extension, input delivery,
marketing and credit services, their perception of needs, their organization into farmers groups, and
whether such organization leads to a change in agricultural practices and cropping patterns. Thie IES wfll,
in addition, assess women's involvement in the various project components, and the impact of rural water
supply on their welfare.



- 34 -
liV. Cost Estimates, Financina and Frocurement
A. Cost Estimates
4.01             The total cost of the Project is estimated to be MT 85.4 billion (USD  40.6 million),
including physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange component is USD 24.8 million, or
61% of project costs. The unit costs are based on the projected average exchange rate for 1991 of MT
1,450 per USD 1.00. Physical contingencies of 10% are provided for civil works and for selected
operating costs. For vehicles and equipment, spare parts have been included, estimated at 15% of their
purchase price. Price contingencies for both local and foreign costs have been added based on projected
price increases in the international and local economies (Annex 7, Tables 1-2). Detailed yearly
component and project costs are presented in Annex 7.
Mozambigue
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
Table 1: Cost Summary
Item                (MTfs millions)                 (USD '000)
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign      Total     % Foreign      % Total
Exchazpge    Base Cowta
A. Upgrding Ag.
Services
1. Extension        1018S      4120      14305     7024      2842      9866            29           28
2. Research          1901      4287       6188     1312      2956       4269           69            12
B. Credit
1. Operations         889       762       1651      613       526       1139           46            3
2. Line-of-Credit              9351       9351        -      6449       6449          100            18
3. Beneficiary       2147          -      2147     1481          -      1481            -            4
Participation
C. Rura Water
Supply                1112      4294      5406      767       2961      3728           79            11
D. Land Uwi &
Management            1456      1747      3203      1004      1205      2209           55             6
E. Insatutionsl
Support               1995      5608      7603      1387      3860      5247           75            14
F. Taxes:
Intemational         2224          -      2224      1533         -       1533            -            4
Consultants
BASELNE
COSTS                21914     30168      52083    15121     20798     35919           58           100
Fhysical
Contingencies          695       640       1335      479       438       917           48             3
Price
Contingenciea        14249     17765      32014      216      3588      3805           94            11
TOTAL COSTS          36859     48573      85432    15817     24824     40641            61          114



- 35 -
B. Financing
4.02         The IDA credit in the amount of USD 35.0 million equivalent will cover 100% of foreign
costs and about 64% of local costs, for a total IDA financing of 86% of project costs. Over the project
period, GOM will cover the project yearly incremental recurrent costs at a progressively higher rate. The
GOM will begin its financing in the third project year with 10%, will gradually increase its financing
share in real terms, and cover all yearly incremental recurrent costs after project completion. The PFIs
will begin to fund their investment and operating costs from the sixth project year, and project
beneficiaries will self-finance an increasing portion of their seasonal credit requirements from the third
year of their participation in the project-financed credit scheme.
Mozambigu
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Projod
Table 2: Financinglan
(USD million)
Source of Finance     Local Currency       Foreign         Total        % Total
Costs         Exchange                       Project
costs                          o
1. W)A:
Investment Costs                   5.5            21.2           26.7             66
Incremental Operating             S.1 S.i                         7.3             1n
Costs
Subtotal IDA                      11.0            23.0           34.0             84
2. GOM:
Taxes: International
Consultants                        1.6              -             1.6              4
Construction                       0.1             0.1            0.2
Incremental Operating
Costs *                            1A Q                           I                4
Subtotal GOM                       3.0             0.4            3.4              8
3. Participating Financial
Institutio:
4. Credit Beneficiaries:             1A5 -
5. PPF Repaymeni:                   _                 1.Q          1.Q              ,
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 16.0            24.6           40.6            100
*     % GOM participation: Years 1 & 2, 0%; Year 3, 10%; Year 4, 15%; Year 5, 20%; Year 6,
25%; Year 7, 30%; and Year 8, 35% of project expenditures.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that tie GOM and the participating financial istitutions
will allocate about USD 4.2 million equivalent to the Project. These resources are consistent with the



- 36 -
recommendations of the Public Expenditure Review. GOM's annual contribution will be increased
gradually in real terms to ensure project sustainability and to cover all incremental recurrent costs of the
Project after the eighth project year (para 6.01(m)). To help prepare the Project, three advances from
the P                       in the amount of USD 1.0 million equivalent were granted by IDA.
These advances were used for hiring consultants and related expenses, and for purchasing vehicles and
other goods to be used by the project preparation team. These costs have been included under the
Technical Assistance category.
C. 1Procurement
4.03         The procurement of items financed by IDA will follow IDA guidelines. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that IDA's procurement guidelines are followed (para 6.01(n)). Component
Coordinators will rely on MOA which will be strengthened, in order to facilitate procurement activities,
by a short-term procurement consultant (para 2.37). In addition, since previous operations have suffered
from relatively slow initiation cf procurement activities, bidding documents f r the first four years of the
project were prepared before, and reviewed and cleared at negotiations. These documents are based on
the Bank standard sample documents.
4.04         Housing construction (USD 0.9 million), vehicles and equipment (USD 4.5 million) will
be bulked into packages of more than USD 100,000 suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB).
Civil works for rural water supply (USD 1.6 million), which involve small-scale, labor-intensive
rehabilitation and/or construction of water facilities over widely dispersed remote areas and are expected
to be spaced over a four to five year period, will be handled mostly by force account procedures
acceptable to IDA, and will be carried out by the EPAR of the Provincial Directorate of Construction and
Water of Nampula, which is presently carrying out this type of operation (paras 2.28 and 2.30). Payment
for works carried out by force account will be based on actual costs which were estimated not to exceed
LJSD 1,500 per well and USD 3,500 per borehole. The remainder of the civil works category consists
of contracts of individual value of up to USD 40,000 aggregated to USD 0.4 million, including
rehabilitation of existing buildings and site preparation for new housing, will be subject to local tendering.
This will include local advertising, public bid opening, award to lowest evaluated bidder, and the
participation of interested foreign contractors and suppliers. Domestic manufacturers qualifying under
ICB will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods, or the
actual customs duties or import taxes, whichever is lower. Qualified civil works domestic contractors
will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 7.5% of the bid price. The GOM will provide, as a
condition for disbursement under the housing and building rehabilitation subcategories, satisfactory
evidence that it owns the land where civil works financed by the Project will be carried out (para
6.02(c)). At negotiations assurances were obtained that the procurement of plant protection materials
(pesticides and insecticides) to be finalized on a year-by-year basis, and financed with credit proceeds,
will require IDA review and approval of type of material and procurement method (para 6.01(o)). Small,
off-the-shelf items costing less than USD 25,000 each which are urgently needed for project
implementation may be purchased by prudent shopping after obtaining at least three price quotations.
These items include primarily training materials and spare parts for vehicles. The value of items
purchased under prudent shopping and direct purchase shall not exceed USD 100,000 without prior IDA
agreement. Procurement under the line of credit will be done by beneficiaries on the basis of annual
requirements, and will follow established commercial practices, with a minimum of three quotations
(paras 2.23-2.24).
4.05         At negotiations, assurances were obtained that consulting services for technical assistance
and carrying out of studies will be procured based on already agreed upon terms of reference (Annex 5)
and according to IDA guidelines, and taxes, if any, levied on consultant remuneration will be borne in
their entirety by GOM (para 6.01(p)). Arrangements for overseas and local training also will be subject
to IDA approval. Scientific journals and textbooks evaluated at about USD 20,000 needed for staff
training may be purchased directly from suppliers. Other project expenditures such as incremental staff



- 37 -
salaries and recurrent operating costs will follow GOM procedures. Preshipment inspection of goods for
price, quantity, and quality is mandatory in Mozambique. However, in case of ICB, inspection for
quality and quantity only will take place.
4.06           IDA-financed contracts exceeding USD 100,000 for vehicles and equipment, excluding
the line of credit component, will require prior IDA review of bidding documents and evaluation report
before contracts are awarded. It is estimated that about 70% of IDA-financed proceeds will be subject
to prior review. Other IDA-financed contracts will be subject to post-award review.
Mozambigu
Agricultural SvieRhailitation and Deveomn  ric
Table 3: Procurement Schedule
(USD Million)
Expenditure Category            ICB        LCB       Other     NA        Total
Civil Works:
o Housing                        0.9       -         -         -          0.9
(0.8)      -        -          -         (0.8)
o Building Rehabilitation        0.2       0.4       -         -          0.6
(0.2)    (0.3)       -         -         (0.5)
o Rural Water Supply              -        -         1.6       -           1.6
-  -    (1.6)       -         (1.6)
Vehicles and Equipment             3.6       -        0.7        0.2        4.5
(3.6)      -        (0.7)      -         (4.3)
Technical Assistance:
o Consultants                    -         -         7.7       -          7.7
-        -        (7.7)      -          (7.7)
o Training                       -         -         0.2       2.2        2.4
-        -        (0.2)     (2.2)       (2.4)
o Studies                        0.9       -         0.3       1.0        2.2
(0.9)      -        (0.3)     (1.0)      (2.2)
Credit:
o Line of Credit                 -         -         -         8.1         8.1
-  -  -  (8.1)      (8. 1)
o Beneficiary Participation      -         -         -         1.5         1.5
Incremental Operating Costs:
o Staff Salaries                 -         -         -         5.5        5.5
-  -  -  (4.3)      (4.3)
o Other Operating Costs          -         -         -         4.0        4.0
-        -         -        (3.1)       (3.1)
Taxes: International Consultants   -                             1.6        1.6
TOTAL COSTS                        5.6       0.4      10.5      24.1       40.6
(5.5)    (0.3)    (10.5)    (18.7)      (35.0)
% IDA Financing                  98        75       100        78          86
Notes: (1) Amounts in parentheses represent IDA financing
(2) PPF USD 1.0 million included under Technical Assistance in the studies subcategory



- 38 -
D. Disbursements
4.07         The proceeds of the USD 35.0 million IDA credit will be disbursed as follows:
Mozambique
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
Tatle 4: Disbursement
CateZorvy                        USD Million            Percentage
A. Civil Works:
e Housing                      0.7)               90% of Total Expenditures
G Building Rehabilitation      0.4)
o Rural Water Supply            1.4               100% of Total Expenditures
B. Vehicles and Equipment          4.0               100%  of Total Expenditures (net of
taxes) [11
C. Technical Assistance:
o Consultants                  7.0                100% ofTotalExpenditures(netoftaxes)
o Training                     2.0                100% of Total Expenditures
e Studies                       1.0               100% of Total Expenditures
D. Line of Credit                  7.0               100% of Incremental Lending
E. Incremental Operating Costs:
o Incremental Staff Salaries   4.0               [21
* Other Operating Costs         2.5              [21
F. PPF Repayment                   1.0               100% of Total Expenditures
G. Unallocated                     4.0
TOTAL                             35.0
(11 Excluding costs incurred by participating financing institutions from Year 6 onward.
[21 % IDA participation: Year I - 2, 100%; Years 3 - 4, 75%; Years 5 - 6, 68%; and Years 7 - 8, 60%.
4.08         Disbursements for all expenditures will be made against full documentation, except for
items (E) above and for expenditures under contracts and purchase orders below USD 20,000 equivalent;
these will be based on statements of expenditure. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that



- 39 -
supporting documentation for statements of expenditure will be retained by the borrower for IDA review.
The statements of expenditure will be subject to special audit each year (para 6.01(q)). Funds under the
line of credit will finance 100% of foreign expenditures (c. i.f. costs) of directly imported goods, and 70%
of the cost of locally purchased goods and services. The balance of sub-project costs, including any taxes
and duties imposed on imports, will be financed by sub-project beneficiaries and the PFIs under their
domestic credit ceiling.
4.09         The disbursement period of eight years coincides with the Bank profile for agricultural
projects in similar Southern African countries. Since previous operations have been hampered by
untimely disbursement of funds, consultants will be employed to improve the management capacity of
all institutions involved in implementation (para 2.37), a procurement specialist will be provided (para
2.37), and a Special Account will be opened (para 4.10). The projected completion date is June 30, 2000
and the closing date is anticipated to be about December 31, 2000. The estimated disbursement schedule
for the IDA credit is as follows:
Mozambique
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Proi
Table 5: Proiect Disbursement Schedul
(USD Million)
Eoject Year             1      2       3      4       5      6       7      8
1. IDA
Annual                 2.51    5.3    5.0    4.7    4.7    4.3    4.0    4.5
Cumulative             2.51   7.8   12.8   17.5   22.2   26.5   30.5   35.0
2. fgM
Annual                 0.22    0.62    0.53   0.43    0.43    0.43   0.43   0.53
Cumulative             0.2    0.8    1.3    1.7    2.1    2.5    2.9    3.4
3. Part. Fin. Inst,
& Credit Beneficiaries
Annual                 -       -      0.1    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.6    0.8
Cumulative             -       -      0.1    0.2    0.4    0.8    1.4    2.2
Annual                 2.7    5.9    5.6    5.2    5.3    5.1    5.0    5.8
Cumulative             2.7    8.6   14.2   19.4   24.7   29.8   34.8   40.6
%of Project Costs      7     21      35     48      61      73     86    100
I     Including USD 1.0 million repayment of PPF
2     Taxes on foreign consultant salaries only
a     Including taxes on foreign consultant salaries



- 40 -
4.10         Special Accot. To ensure that funds for the Project are available when needed and to
reduce the number of disbursement claims to be processed, a Special Account in US dollars will be
established at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Once the Project is effective, IDA will deposit USD
1.0 million into this account to pay for any expenditures to be financed by IDA. This amount is in line
with the anticipated 34 month rate of disbursement. Further deposits by IDA to replenish the Special
Account will be made against withdrawal applications which are supported by appropriate documents.
4.11         Accou   ad-Audit. A review of the auditing, accounting, and financial management
practices of public and private enterprises in Mozambique was carried out by the Bank's Internal Audit
Department. The review team found that the accounts of many state enterprises were in arrears, even
though a standard accounting system was instituted in 1984. Therefore, the Project has provided for a
short-term accounting specialist and local contract accountants to streamline the MOA accounting systems.
External auditing of enterprise accounts is not yet required in Mozambique, and there are few independent
auditors. Therefore, the Project has provided for external auditing costs. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that MOA, BM (Central), and the PFIs will maintain separate records of project expenditures
in accordance with sound and consistent accounting principles. Annual financial statements will consist
of a summarized statement of the Special Account and individual project accounts, which will be prepared
by the MOA accounting unit and based on the financial statements rendered by the different participating
agencies, and a summarized statement of their expenditures (Annex 11). These statements will be audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor also will prepare a separate opinion on the
statement of expenditure and on transactions carried out through the Special Account. At negotiations
an agreement was reached on these accounting and auditing procedures and that the audit report will be
submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of each financial year (para 6.01(r)).



- 41 -
V.                           tand Environmental Es
A. Benefits
5.01         Fam Mod.ls. In order to quantify expected returns under the Project, budgets for four
different farm types have been prepared (Annex 7, Tables 3-5). Together, they represent a range of
family subsector production systems. They are based on best local estimates, and therefore should be
considered only as illustrative.
5.02         The following farm models have been used:
(i)    Traditional Farmers: family farmers who do not use material inputs such as pesticides
or fertilizers and use rudimentary production agro-technologies. It is estimated that 60-
70% of the family farmers in the project area belong to this category. Under the Project,
it is expected that with the help of the extension service about 50% of these farmers will
upgrade their technological level of production, yield, and incomes;
(ii)   LowInput Level Farmers: family farmers who apply better cultivation practices than
traditional farmers, and use limited amounts of insecticides on their cotton crop (up to
two applications). Some 30-40% of the cotton growing family farmers in the project area
are presently in this category. Under the Project, efforts will be made to upgrade the
levels of production and incomes of some 30-35,000 of these farmers through the use of
additional purchased inputs such as improved seeds and fertilizers, and effective use of
pesticides;
(iii)   Hisher ILn    Level Famers: some more advanced farmers in the project area use
modern inputs in the cultivation of cotton and other crops. Under the Project they will
continue to use fertilizers, high yielding seed varieties, mechanical land preparation, and
spraying which will be organized through and paid for by means of hire charges.
Harvesting and some farming operations will, however, continue to be done manually
through hired labor. It is estimated that some 2,000 of these farmers will be assisted by
the Project; and
(iv)   Small-Sle Commer-cial Famers: some commercial farmers, growing cotton and other
crops, exist in the project areas. It is estimated that some 500 farmers of this category
will be supported by the Project and granted credit, if necessary, from existing resources.
5.03         The budgets of the family farms, separate or in blocks, refer to a farm size of 2.25
hectares. With this farm size and the planned cropping pattern, a typical smallholder should be able to
supply the labor required under the various technological levels of production and to produce enough
staple food for household consumption, with additional cash income from cotton and surplus food produce
sales (Table 6). In addition, traditional farmers are expected to be engaged part-time in off-farm
employment which will generate supplemental income. The commercial farm model assumes an area of
10.0 ha. This farm will require hired labor and mechanical services for cotton cultivation, while the area
under foodcrops wil be cultivated mostly with family labor. The prices used in the calculations are
derived from projected border prices. Summary benefits of the various farm models are given in Annex
7.



- 42 -
5.04         Incremental benefits and net incomes for the main farm models are given in the following
table:
Mozambique
Agltural Services Rehabilitation and Development Proiect
Table 6: Farm Types Incremental Benefits
A. Return to Family Labor*
Farm Tvnes             Without    With         Inremen
Projecet   kpromt
----------(MT /day)---            ()
Traditional                1660     1689       29        (+2)
Low Input                  1303     9204     7901      (+606)
Higher Input               1303     4888     3585      (+275)
Indicator:
Rural occasional labor wage rate MT 2,000/day
*) Only days family members work on-farm
B. Family Net Income*
FarmT                  Witfhout   With         Incremental
Project    Project
-(      IJSD/year)                (%)
Traditional                 152      233       81       (+53)
Low Input                   190      491      301      (+158)
Higher Input                190      883      693      (+364)
Indicator:
Average GDP/family*** USD 600-720
*t) cash income and value of farm product not sold but consumed, net of actual
cash expenditures for production inputs.
Ctt) 1988 average GDP/capita estimated at USD 100-120: average rural family size
of 6.



- 43 -
5.05         Improved efficiency in extension, research, credit, input supply and marketing
arrangements is expected to result in, and contribute significantly to, increased family cash income as
production and marketing of food surpluses increase. This will provide an improved level of food
security and attainment of a higher level of family basic needs. At full development, the Project will
increase the average annual production of seed cotton by about 23,000 tons (240%), maize by about
38,000 tons (30%) and beans by about 7,600 tons (32%). This increase in production will increase the
country's potential earnings of foreigr] exchange from cotton products exports and maize import
substitution by about USD 25.0 million a year, in 1991 constant price terms.2
5.06         The base case economic rate of return is 27% (Table 7). No attempt has been made to
quantify benefits to the wider community, or to allocate pro-rata project costs to reflect the wider spread
of economic benefits. The sensitivity analysis indicates that the economic viability of the Project will not
be affected by moderate changes in implementation cost and timing, or the number of project participants;
sensitivity to production levels attained and product pricing factors is somewhat higher, indicating the
importance of effective support services and adequate pricing policies (Table 7).
Mozambigue
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and DeveloDment Proiect
Table 7: Economic Return - Sensitivity Analysis
Base case - ERR                                       27%
Sensitivity Tests
1 year benefits slip                                 23%
Current Official Cotton Price Equiv.                  23%
Ea change from ge                       -2e          20%
Cotton Value                           24%          30%
Cotton Yield                           26%          28%
Maize Value                            25%          29%
Food Crop Yields                        11%         37%
Project Costs                          32%          24%
Number of Beneficiaries                23%          31%
5.07         The Project is also expected to generate several benefits which are difficult to measure
and quantify. These include the strengthening of existing institutions, the provision of improved rural
water supply, the environment data collection, and the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
system. By introducing pricing policies meant to stimulate and create competition and efficiency in the
agricultural sector, the Project will strengthen the participation of the private sector in the economy, and
create conditions conducive to the development of entrepreneurship. The project focus on the provincial
and district levels will contribute to decentralization and to the building up of a local planning and
implementation capacity, which is expected to enhance services to farmers and accelerate the integration
of women into the economy. The rural water supply component, by reducing the time required for
obtaining water, will contribute to increased availability of time for field labor, education and/or other
activities, thus improving the quality of life of the family subsector in general and of women in particular,
2 Cotton products have an average value of USD 705/per mt. of seed cotton, FOB Mozambique
ports, based on World Bank international price projections. The import substitution value of regionally
Droduced maize is currentlv IJSD 250/mt delivpred k4wnvmhinhe nortR



- 44 -
as they are the main water providers. It will also contribute to improved availability of safe water and
to better health. Data to be collected under the land use and management component will be used to
develop enviromnental and soil conservation measures to be implemented during project life, and will
encourage on-farm investments. Setting up a monitoring and evaluation system will provide a much
needed, reliable data base which will be used in subsequent planning of the agricultural sector. Lastly,
this Project will contribute to food security by increasing foodcrop yields and overall production, and it
will also test certain procedures (mainly in credit) which, if they prove effective, can set the basis for
future programs.
B. Risks
5.08          The major risks to the Project pertain to the security situation, the inexperience and low
implementation capacity of Government agencies, organizational difficulties, decentralization of decision
making and implementation, and insufficient and delayed funding. The security situation is unpredictable
and may hamper implementation. To reduce security risks, project field activities will be limited to
relatively secure areas, and flexibility in implementation will be introduced. Project components have
been designed to address the borrower's inexperience and organizational limitations. For example,
temporary technical assistance will be provided in the form of locally recruited consultants and
expatriates to help local staff in the implementation of the Project. Training of local staff is an important
feature of the Project and represents a relatively high portion of its total costs. The consulting assistance
provided under the Project will help install improved systems of financial control, accounting, information
management, planning, and record keeping; this assistance also will help train local staff to maintain these
management systems. In addition, MOA, through the Project monitoring and financial control, will be
able to reorient decentralized implementation of activities, whenever individual organizational and/or
provincial goals diverge from the ALP. To improve funding, the GOM will take measures to ensure that
its contribution is made in a timely manner and gradually expanded as needed in order to cover all
recurrent project costs by the eighth project year.
5.09          In spite of all measures mentioned above, some risks remain. Implementation of projects
in the country tends to progress slowly as a result of ongoing hostilities, slow procurement of goods,
delays in decision making, and poor supervision and support.   Although a relatively long project
gestation period has been taken into account, in order to remedy slow procurement, necessary documents
for the procurement of goods and consultants during the first project years were prepared prior to
negotiations and discussed and cleared at negotiations. In addition, efforts will be made to field intensive
and successive project supervision missions during the first two project years (Annex 9), in order to
introduce a flexible approach to implementation and to assist the GOM in decision making and problem
solving.
C. Sustginability
5.10          Project sustainability pertains to institutional and financial factors. Institutional factors
affecting project sustainability include a satisfactory implementation of the GOM's decentralization policy
at the provincial level. The high degree of decentralization inherent in this Project is expected to generate
a sense of ownership and pride for each institution in the component in which it is involved. It is
expected that agencies involved will use the incremental funds provided by the Project to build up their
capacity, train their staff, and attract and keep highly qualified technicians. All this will only enhance
long-term project sustainability.
5.11          The financial sustainability of the Project is affected by budgetary constraints which limit
the Government's contribution to the Project. The shortage of funds to sustain ongoing activities is
severe, so incremental budgetary outlays by GOM could be limited, particularly during the initial years



- 45 -
of the Project. To improve the financial sustainability of the Project, funding has been formulated in a
manner that will minimize the strain on GOM's budget, especially during the initial years of the Project.
The GOM is expected to increase its contribution gradually as government revenues generated by project
activities begin to materialize. It is expected that after project completion, the annual incremental
recurrent costs requirements will be of the level of about USD 1.7 million equivalent. This level of
budgetary expenditure for the agricultural services and infrastrv--re rehabilitated by the Project will
serve a wide pool of direct and indirect beneficiaries. This expt. jiture represents less t.han 7% of the
expected incremental annual earnings (USD 16.0 million from cotton exports, and USD ` 0 million from
maize import substitution) originating from the Project's targeted beneficiaries. It is expected to be
generated easily through existing taxes and therefore will be sustainable after project completion (Annex
7, Table 14). Furthermore, this expenditure, amounting to about 15% of the expected yearly recurrent
budget of the MOA (USD 11.3 million in 2000), will be used to provide services to about 28% of the
agricultural population of the country and is therefore justifiable.
D. Environmental Etfects
5.12         The project Environmental Assessment which was carried out indicates that no negative
impact is expected from planned activities. On the contrary, the Project will have a number of beneficial
effects on the environment and the nutrition of the project area population. Training given to FEWs and
subsequently to farmers will be based on technologies which safeguard the existing balance of agro-
ecosystems (para 2.09-2.12). The adaptive research, extension and training programs to be implemented
all focus on integrated pest management and the use of alternative non-chemical pest control techniques
(para 2.19). The farming systems approach followed in research and extension will promote the
maintenance of soil productivity and the rational use of inputs and farm labor resources (para 2.20). The
land use and management component will provide detailed information on the area soil conservation
needs, to be subsequently used by INIA to develop rotational cropping and soil conservation techniques
(para 2.32). These techniques will be taught to farmers and will help enhance soil fertility and reduce
erosion (para 2.35). Finally, improved rural water supply facilities (paras 2.28-2.29), and the higher
food crop production and the enhanced income from cash and food crops anticipated under the Project
(paras 5.03-5.04), will improve the health and nutritional status of project participants. Although the use
of pesticides by the family subsector is minimal at present, it is possible that in the future additional use
of pesticides by project participants might take place. Therefore, financing will be provided for a study
to assess the health impact of activities proposed under the Project (Annex 5).
E. Gender Focus
5.13          Women in Mozambique play vital roles as farmers, managers, decision makers, and farm
laborers. It is estimated that more than 60% of family farmers are women. Women do most of the
weeding, harvesting, threshing, storing of food crops, marketing of surpluses, water collecion, and
household tasks. Under the Project, women farmers will have equal access to extension, training, and
credit. Steps also will be taken to increase the number of female extension staff and women's
participation in farmers' groups. Efforts will be made to schedule farm visits at times which are most
convenient to women, and the project implementation review will include an assessment of project impact
on women. The farm types of family farmers in Nampula and Cabo Delgado, which served as a basis
for the economic and financial evaluation of project impact as well as the design of the rural water supply
component, take into consideration the pivotal role of women in agricultural production and home
making. Lastly, since women are traditionally responsible for water collection, improved rural water
supply facilities will especially benefit them.



- 46 -
VI. Agreements Reached and Reommendatiorn
6.01         During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)    a contract to provide extension services will be signed during the first project year with one JVC.
These services will be evaluated at the end of the third project year, and a decisio-i whether to
expand the experiment will be taken and implemented not later than during the fourth project year
(para 2.14);
(b)   (i) the cotton and food crops research programs including the proposed cotton breeding program
will be reviewed and further detailed and agreed with IDA not later than one year after credit
effectiveness; and (ii) the required local and expatriate staff for Namialo and Nampula research
stations will be identified and selected nine months after credit effectiveness (para 2.22);
(c)   the Rural Water Supply System Inventory, the Operation and Maintenance Study, and the Review
of Community Involvement in rural water supply O&M will be carried out during the first project
year. The preparation of the I -year Rural Water Development Plan will be carried out during
the second project year. The recommendations of above studies and plan will be presented to
IDA for review and comment, and agreed upon recommendations will be implemented thereafter.
New facilities will be built only in localities where beneficiaries agree to operate and maintain
them (para 2.29).
(d)   the study on titling impact will be carried out according to agreed-upon terms of reference during
the third project year (para 2.32);
(e)   (i) consultants will be selected and hired on terms and conditions agreed with IDA and in
accordance with Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants; (ii) a standard contract for the
hiring of consultants financed with Credit proceeds will be cleared by the relevant division in the
Ministry of Finance within 30 days of its presentation; (iii) a farm- and factory-gate pricing
system for cotton, based on border prices, will be designed and discussed with IDA during the
first year of the Project, and implemented thereafter. This pricing system will be subsequently
updated yearly and implemented; and (iv) the Monitoring and Evaluation Core Team will be
nominated not later than six months after credit effectiveness (para 2.41);
(f)    agreed upon coordination arrangements at the provincial level will be effected not later that six
months after Credit effectiveness (para 3 06);
(g)    BM-Commercial, BPD and BSTM will be eligible to operate as PFIs and carry out project-
financed lending activities, provided that each one has entered into a Participation Agreement
with BM-Central, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 3. 11);
(O)    spreads will be reviewed at the time of the annual review of the interest rate structure and revised
as necessary (para 3.12);
(i)    agreed upon onlending arrangements, subloan processing procedures, lending terms, conditions
and interest rates will be followed (para 3.14);



- 47 -
0)    the methodology for data collection and analysis, the working arrangements needed for the
carrying out the land use and management component, and the contracts to be signed with various
subcontractors will be fully detailed during the first six months of the Project (para 3.15);
(k)    project bi-annual and mid-term implementation reviews will be held after Credit effectiveness.
These reviews will take into consideration data compiled by the project Monitoring and
Evaluation System and will cover the impact of the Project on small-scale family producers
derelopment and the effect of the Project on the farming community, particularly female fanners
and farmers' organizations (para 3.19);
Q)    semi-annual progress reports describing the physical and financial progress of the Project and its
impact to date will reach IDA not later than three months after the end of each semester. In
addition, within six months of completing the Project, UDA/MOA will deliver to IDA a project
completion report describing all aspects of the project's benefits to farmers and to the country
(para 3.20);
(m)   GOM and the participating financial institutions will allocate about USD 4.8 million equivalent
to the Project. GOM's annual contribution will be increased gradually in real terms to ensure
project sustainability and to cover all incremental recurrent costs of the Project after the eighth
project year (para 4.02);
(n)   IDA's procurement guidelines are followed (para 4.03);
(o)   the procurement of plant protection materials (pesticides and insecticides) to be finalized on a
year-by-year basis, and financed with credit proceeds will require IDA review and approval of
type of material and procurement method (para 4.04);
(p)    consulting services for technical assistance and carrying out of studies will be procured according
to IDA guidelines and based on already agreed upon terms of reference; and taxes levied on
international consultant remuneration will be borne in their entirety by the GOM (para 4.05);
((q)   supporting documentation for statements of expenditure should be retained by the borrower for
IDA review, and will be subject to special audit each year (para 4.08); and
(r)    agreed upon accounting and auditing procedures will be followed and a yearly audit report will
be submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of each financial year (para 4. 11);
6.02         The following will be Conditions of Disbursement:
(a)    satisfactory completion of the Operation and Maintenance Study and the Review of Community
Involvement in rural water supply O&M included in the rural water supply component will be
conditions for disbursing on the c:. ' works included in this component (para 2.29);
(b)   receipt by IDA of a satisfactorily signed and authorized Subsidiary Administration Agreement
between the Government and the Central Bank, and Participation Agreements between BM-
Central and the PFIs, and approval by IDA of a model Subloan Agreement, will be conditions
for disbursing funds from the line of credit (para 3.13); and
(c)    submission to IDA of satisfactory evidence that the GOM owns the lands where civil works will
be carried out, will be a condition for disbursing on civil works (para 4.04).



- 48 -
6.03         The following will be a Condition of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   setting up the Unit for Development Activities in the MOA; establishment of the Project
Coordinating Committee; and appointment of Component Coordinators (para 3.05).
6.04         Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the Project is suitable for an IDA credit
for the equivalent of SDR 25.9 million (USD 35.0 million) to the Govemment of Mozambique on
standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



- 49 -
ANNEXES



MOZAMBIQUE
MIStRY OFAGMRCUTURI
| eOTWS CAMNET 1V|ICE-MINISTER|
ORGAIRATIORETRAENORA CHARRT  COOMCS(DA
DIRECTORATE                  ~~~~~DIRECTORATE  DOIRM FES5 ECT ORAT
STATE SECFRETAAT     STATE SECFRETAAT     STATE SECFRETARUIAT
FOR COTTON           FOR CASLEW         FOR AGRICULETRAL                              IDEPARTMENT FOR INTERFATONAL COOPERA LON DC   I
tg;EA)              (SEC)               HYRAS
(SEKAI                                  DEPARTMENT FOR  KNISTROTIAN  .ADAD F MECE LO AFN
NATNAL               NATKNAL      |        IUNATIONAL                               NATUONAL                       NALIONAL
DIRERATE             D31ECTORATE           OFECTORATE                               DIRECTORATE                   DIRECTORATE
FOR A - CULTURE       FOR LIVESTOCK       FOR FORESTRY AND                         F OR GEOGRAHY                    FORI RURAL
tDMAV          I~~~~DNP)             WnDUFE                               AND CADASTRE                    DEVLOPMENT
(NDFFO)                                (DINAGECA)                      (DNIREA)
NATIONAL ISTITUTE                          NATIONAL ISnTITUE                      |NATION4LSUGAR  ||NAMONAL INSTITUTE I
fOR AG%CUALE                               FOR VETERINARY                             WNSTITLTE                 FOR ANIMAL BRIEEDING
RESEARCH                                   RIESEARCH                                ON)                             IREMA)
CENTER FOR                                                                                                        CENTER FOR
AGRIULTURAL                                                                                                     DOCUMENTATON AND
TRANGAND                                                                                                          INFORMATION
RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                        (CE
CFA)
PROHVNCIAL DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULnTE (DPA)
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~'I
I                    I                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b :3
rr x



Nozaaspiue
ABNICULTORaL GE"ICBS
REa1M1ILIlZTION OND DUUItOPNUNT PUOJKC?
BYaTs SECDKTORIaT FOR COTTON
onaomiza:TIO CuOUT
B   eTA ETTI   OF
VW         - i
vr*in   e
L&BMTMlCi                           CLAAMYS                       SU   IM             I5alIIlilt5|                      FOIC^ 
MAWL          ;   .....        I        I    * I_.                         /pT 
4 fa              LE   mmzaLazLS51m                                        a            
TOwJrucAnwEaP1   
_   __ '|IUIA
G ;lP      dMSI                   ''- 
|  Eo    0  2   0  2    srana  §~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n



'1                                   ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  i
*                                                                        2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
46~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 54 -
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL SEIE UICES
REAH ILITArIOMN AND DEUELOPMENT PROJECT
')ROANKZATION FOR PROJECT COORDIAQTIOH
UDA         DNE           gPD        INIA        DNOA6ECA    PRONAH
c o-Os eR                             c            calg   c
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~om TRW O



- 55 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 8
MOZAMBIOUE
AGRIClLTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. The Financial Sector
1.01         General. Mozambique's financial sector currently consists of three banks, an agricultural
credit fund, and one insurance company. The present financial system came into being after Mozambique
gained independence in 1975; restructuring of the banking system occurred in 1978. Of the three banks,
one, Banco de Mocambique (BM), acts as both the Central Bank and a leading commercial bank. A
second filly state-owned bank is Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD). The third bank - Banco
Standard Totta de Mocambique (BSTM)-is a largely foreign-owned private bank. The agricultural credit
fund-Caixa de Credito Agrario e de Desenvolvimento Rural (CCADR)-was established by Government
in 1988, is administered by BPD, and initiated lending operations in mid-1988, but practically stopped
lending in 1990 because of funding problems.
1.02         Over the period 1980-86 the banking system acted as a passive conduit for financing the
production plans of the economy. A rapid expansion of credit occurred so that while GDP fell in real
terms by 16% over this period, domestic credit expanded by 240%, and serious arrears were built up
amounting to over 50% of lending by 1986. Interest rates on lending and borrowing were not used for
rationing credit and were negative in real terms. Bank deposits were largely non interest-bearing demand
deposits. The situation was not conducive to mobilization of real savings; therefore, the non-availability
of foreign exchange for imported investment goods constrained investment, so that liquid reserves were
accumulated. Lending was concentrated in the commercial department of BM, partly financed by deposits
from the other banks; this affected in particular the private sector. The dual role of BM was not
conducive to the development of its regulatory and policy making responsibilities. Commercial banks
were able to maintain financial stability because of the high level of liquidity; book earnings were also
positive because of high yield margins over the averaged very low cost of deposited funds and non-
provisioning for bad and doubtful debts.
1.03         The Strat  for Financiale Sctor Reform. The Government, since 1987, has adopted
a series of relatively radical measures for the banking sector under its Economic Rehabilitation Program
(ERP), with the objective of restoring capability for efficient mobilization of savings and allocation of
investment. The measures taken have been included in agreements between the Government, IDA and
the IMF. The task that the Government has embarked on since 1987 is complex and lengthy, requiring
that the financial sector undergo a transition from a system whose main purpose was the administrative
allocation of public funds according to the requirement of the central plan, to one in which private savings
can be effectively mobilized and channelled to economic investments via a market-determined price
(interest rate) system, and which can be monitored and regulated through monetary instruments by the
cental baok. Under the previous system, the main instrument of monetary control was the annual credit
plan, which complemented the annual production plans; the interest rate was effectively redundant and
monetary and regulatory control of the banks was impracticable. In order to rehabilitate the financial



- 56 -
Page 2 of 8
sector, the reform process has had to address the following basic issues: (a) interest rates; (b) institutional
development; (c) financial restructuring of the banks; and (d) performance guidelines. The combined
effect of reforms in all these areas would be to raise domestic savings and ration credit via the price
system to more profitable outlets, allow necessary specialization of the functions of the central bank, and
permit a fresh start to be made in the commercial banking system.
1.04         The ERP has initially addressed (a) and (b) above. Under the program agreed with the
IMF, nominal interest rates have been increased in successive steps toward positive real levels. The
interaction between fiscal and monetary policy has been addressed by setting targets (ceilings) for the
fiscal deficit in combination with bank credit ceilings, whereby government financing by the banking
system has been significantly reduced in real terms; in addition, banking system financing of operating
losses of enterprises has been curtailed and a portion of doubtful loans transferred from the banking
system to the Ministry of Finance. The primary objective of structural reform has been the separation
of the central banking and commercial banking functions of the Bank of Mozambique (BM), in order to
improve economic and financial management. Though the separation has not yet been completed,
progress has been made in classifying operations and departments for the two functions. A new chart
of accounts has been introduced which will facilitate the separation of the accounts of the commercial
operations of BM from those of the central bank. This separation will allow the evaluation of the assets
and liabilities, and, thus, viability of the commercial bank operations. The creation of a new commercial
bank is expected to be effected in 1992, and it will assume the separated commercial bank functions and
responsibilities from the central BM.
1.05         Until the separation of BM's accounts is completed, the development of the policy
instruments needed for more effective management of the financial system will not make significant
progress. The basic legal statute of 1975 (the Lei Organica) granted BM, in its role of central bank,
extensive powers to implement monetary policy and control the operations of the banking system. The
scope of these powers is comparable with that of central banks in most dev loped countries, and there
appears to be no need for expanding the provisions of the Lei Organica in this respect. Some
instruments-notably reserve requirements-have not been introduced, and others have been used only in
a very limited way. In particular, although BM established a discount window, it has been used only
sporadically, because of the excess liquidity in the banking system. The principal developments under
the ERP have been the introduction of ceilings on domestic-source credit, simplifications of the interest
rate structure, and the movement towards positive real interest rates. Some progress has been made in
strengthening banks' portfolios by transferring bad loans of public enterprises to the Government and by
emphasizing financial viability and repayment prospects as criteria for extension of new credit.
1.06         Strur of Int       ae. The current structure of both lending and deposit rates is
shown in the Attachment to the Annex. Rates in effect from 1981 to 1986 were very low in nominal
terms, ranging from 0 to 6% for deposits, and 3 to 10% for lending, and negative in real terms. The
structure of interest rates was revised with effect from January 1987, according to Mozambique's
agreement with the IMF for a Structural Adjustment Facility (SAP), with rates ranging from 3% on
demand deposits and 12 to 20% on time deposits, and 54 different lending rates ranging from 12 to 35%.
Provision was also made for a rediscount rate of 10%, applicable on amounts up to 6% of demand
deposits, and rising to 12% on amounts up to an additional 6% of demand deposits. A revision of
lending rates came into effect in January 1989, with the number of rates reduced to 16, ranging from 14



- 57 -
Page 3 of 8
to 34%. Further revisions in the interest rate structure came inte effect in September 1989, and in March
and November 1990, aimed at raising lending rates toward positive levels in real terms.
1.07         The change in interest rates that took place in January 1987 and the subsequent revisions
were major steps in the direction of strengthening market mechanisms. It enhanced the role of interest
rates both in the allocation of credit and in the mobilization of savings, and it indicated that economic
considerations should lead both the enterprises' decision to borrow and the banks' decision to lend. It
also achieved an important goal in the Government's strategy to encourage private sector participation;
it ended discrimination, in terms of lending rates, in favor or state enterprises and against private
borrowers. The increases in interest rates appear to have had a very limited impact on deposits however.
Both demand and time deposits followed a very similar evolution in 1987 and 1988; their share in M2
increased, while their ratio to GDP declined sharply. The lack of progress in savings mobilization can
be attributed to the banks' reluctance to attract savings that they cannot re-invest because of the ceilings
on domestic-source credits but are mandated to remunerate, and to the fact that the negative real rates
on time deposits have not encouraged depositors.
1.08         It is expected that the higher interest rate structure of lending rates will have a positive
impact, with credit demand shifting to borrowers that have better prospects in the current business
enviromnent. Under the terms of Mozambique's agreement with the IMF, interest rates should continue
to be reviewed and revised progressively. Annual reviews of lending interest rates and their structure
would also take place with IDA.
Bano de Mocambiaue (BM)
1.09         a)izion. BM is by far the largest of the three banks, and the one with the broadest
mandate. It was created in 1975 to take over the central banking role previously played by Portugal's
Banco Nacional Ultramarino, and, in 1978, absorbed the Mozambican operations of four Portuguese-
owned banks. In 1987, BM introduced a new organizational structure, in line with the planned separation
of the central banking and commercial banking functions. It created eight departments: two commercial
banking departments (Foreign Operations and Lending Operations), two central banking departments
(Planning and Economic Studies and Banking System and Inspection), three support departments
(Administration, Personnel, and Legal Affairs), and the department of International Relations, mostly
responsible for managing foreign loans to BM and the Government. BM has 10 provincial head offices
(filiais), 17 district branches (agencias) and 13 deposit offices (delegacoes). BM's Board of Directors
is entirely internally constituted, comprising the Governor and the eight department General Managers
(Administradores).
1.10         L i            As of December 31, 1989, total institutional credit to the economy
amounted to MT 316.7 billion (USD 384 million), of which BM provided about 68% (December 1988 -
total credit to the economy MT 213.7 billion-USD 330 million, BM share 69%). MT 66.3 billion (31%)
of BM's outstanding balance of loans at end-1989 was to the agricultural sector, followed by 24% to
industry, 20% to domestic trade and 16% to transport and communications. Compared to 1988, the share
of agriculture in BM's portfolio decreased from 39% at end-1988 to 31% at end-1989, while the share
of industry increased in 1989 from 16% to 24%, and of domestic trade from 14% to 20%. The bulk of
BM's loan portfolio (81% in 1989 and 88% in 1988) consisted of short-term credits, and the balance
comprised longer term investment credits and rescheduled loans.



- 58 -
Anna 2
Page 4 of 8
1.11         pulblic Sector Loans. The consolidation of the bad loans of public enterprises and their
transfer from the banking sector to the Government has been under negotiation since 1986. In 1987, the
Government reached agreement with BM and recognized MT 40.6 billion (34% of BM's loan portfolio)
as bad loans of public enterprises, as of the end of 1987. Of these, MT 10.0 has been rescheduled and
MT 8.8 billion actually reimbursed in 1988 by the Government to BM.
Banco Poiular de Desenvolvimento (BPD)
1.12         General. BPD was formed in 1977, integrating the old Banco de Fomento Nacional,
Instituto de Credito de Mocambique, and Montepio de Mocambique. It has traditionally had two main
roles: the financing of agriculture and, by extension, the rural sector, and domestic savings mobilization.
It is also empowered under its charter, however, to invest in equity, new ventures, and take up
commercial paper. Recently a share capital participation departnent was set up for that purpose. BPD
holds equity in a few enterprises, notably textiles, inherited from nationalized banks.
1.13         Organization. BPD is 100% state owned and similar to BM. Its Board of Directors is
comprised of its Managing Director and four General Managers (Administradores), each of whom is in
charge of a number of departments of the bank. It has by far the largest branch network in the country,
with 10 provincial head offices (filial), 25 district branches (agencia), 49 deposit offices (delegacao) and
65 savings collection posts (posto de captacao de poupanca). Because of prevailing security problems,
fourteen savings collection posts are temporarily closed. BPD has a total staff of about 3,000, with 420
employed in its head office in Maputo. Since 1987, BPD management has considerably strengthened staff
training activities, focussing in particular on training of credit analysts. The bank is gradually introducing
computerization in head office departments and some of the larger branches; as of July 1, 1990 the new
chart of accounts which is to be applied uniformly by all the banks in the country, was introduced.
1.14         Liguidity. BPD's balance sheet as of December 31, 1989 shows considerable excess
liquidity, largely because of existing credit ceilings on domestic source credits. Liquid assets were about
40% of total assets, and BPD's total outstanding loan portfolio was equivalent to 47% of demand and
term deposits, or 38% when loans to Governments and the CCADR are excluded. At end-December
1989, demand deposits reached MT 158.8 billion, of which MT 72.2 billion were deposits by
Government, MT 8.2 billion were deposits by other banks and financial institutions, MT 13.1 billion by
state enterprises and MT 9.6 billion by private enterprises. Deposits by the population amounted to MT
47.4 billion. While demand deposits increased by MT 54.1 billion, or 52%, between December 1988
and 1989, terms deposits increased only by MT 3.8 billion, from MT 6.9 to MT 10.7 billion. This
clearly indicates that the low interest rates on term deposits are not conducive to the mobilization of
savings.
1.15         Loan Por. At the end of December 1989, the outstanding balance of loans
(including arrears) amounted to about MT 64.6 billion (MT 41.0 billion at end-December 1988). The
above balance does not include loans to Government of about MT 8.0 billion and a bridging credit to the
CCADR of MT 7.5 billion. Comparison with previous years' lending operations shows that BPD lending
has moved significantly towards the private sector and that medium- and long-term lending for
investments has sharply increased. Between December 1988 and 1989, the net increase in the outstanding
balance of loans amounted to about MT 24.0 billion, of which only 11% was to state enterprises. Total
loan disbursements in 1989 amounted to MT 42.8 billion, of which 45% were for short term working



- 59 -
Page 5 of 8
capital credits and the remaining 55% were for investment loans. About 50% of short-term credits but
only 8% of investment loans were disbursed to state enterprises. It should be noted, however, that
lending to the state farm sector shifted in 1989 from BPD to the CCADR (see para 1.18). About 58%
of total outstanding loans, at end-December 1989, were to the agricultural sector, 33% to industry, (72%
and 20% respectively in 1988), and the remaining balance financed other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, tourism and construction.
1.16         Re",iew of preliminary data on lending operations in 1990 shox s that the trends noted in
1989 continue to persist. Total loan disbursements between January 1 and December 31, 1990 amounted
to about MT 47.0 billion, of which MT 25.8 billion were for short-term credits and MT 21.2 billion for
investment loans- 29% of short term credits and 8% of investrnent loans were disbursed to state
enterprises (50% and 8% respectively, in 1989 - see para 1.15 above).
1.17         Arrears. BPD faces serious arrears problems, stemming from its past lending to state
enterprises. Available data show that at the end of December 1990, arrears amounted to MT 25.0 billion,
equivalent to 38% of the total loan portfolio as of that date, and state enterprises accounted for about 80%
of total arrears. In principle, Govermnent has agreed to assume bad debts of state enterprises and BPD
is negotiating with Government to determine the amount of bad debts to be transferred to Government
and how BPD would be reimbursed by Government.
Caixa de (Credito Agrario e de Desenvolvimento Rural (CCADR1
1.18         The CCADR, in operation since May 1988 and administered by BPD, was created by
Government to provide credit at preferential terms and at subsidized interest rates (initially 6%, raised
to 10% in September 1989) to stimulate investments in the rural sector. Its activities are financed from
budgetary allocations by Government and the local counterpart funds from some donor-financed projects.
The credit norms emphasized lending to veterans, repatriated migrant workers, cooperatives and family
producers, producers of cereals and those affected by natural calamities. State enterprises were also
eligible to borrow from the CCADR and according to available data have absorbed the major share of
CCADR resources. Total loans disbursed in 1989 amounted to MT 29.0 billion; 20% of loan
disbursements were for short-term working capital credits and 80% for long-term investment loans; 76%
of short-term and 67% of long-term loans were made to agricultural state enterprises. Because of lack
of additional funding and serious problems in loan recovery, CCADR was forced to reduce drastically
its lending operations. During the first semester of 1990, total loan disbursements amounted to MT 2.9
billion, 93% of which were for long-term investment loans; 85% of total disbursements between January
and June 1990 were to agricultural state enterprises. At end-December 1989, the total portfolio of
CCADR amounted to MT 31.8 billion and decreased to MT 31.3 billion by June 1990.
B. Credit to Agricultr
2.01         At end-December 1988, total institutional credit to the agricultural sector amounted to MT
90.6 billion, equivalent to 42.4% of the total credit to the economy. In current terms, credit to the
agricultural sector increased to MT 131.2 billion (41.4 % of total credit to the economy), by end-
December 1989. The respective shares of the banking system and CCADR are shown in the following
table:



- 60 -
Page 6 of 8
TABLE 1. Credit to the Agriculture Sector.
Institution                         De br 31-1988   Dcmber 31 198
MT Billion   X     WMIillion
BM                                  58.6      65        66.0           50
BPD                                 26.8      30        38.4           29
BSTM                                 0.7       --         1.1            -
CCADR                                X,5       5        25.7           21
Total                               90.6      100       131.2         100
2.02         BM traditionally finances the production and marketing of industrial and export crops,
and the bulk of its agricultural loan portfolio consists of short-term credits for working capital (97.4%
and 95.5% respectively, at December 1988 and 1989). Outstanding loan balances, by commodity, were
as follows:
TABLE 2. Agricultural Loan Portfolio of BM
Commodity                        December 31. 1988   December 31. 1989
MT Billion
Sugar                               29.5                24.9
Tea                                  7.2                 5.7
Cotton/Sisal                        13.7                19.6
Cashew                               3.1                 8.1
Copra                                3.8                 5.6
Others                                la                 .2A
Total                               58.6                66.3
2.03         State-owned and intervened enterprises accounted for about 85 % of BM's agricultural loan
portfolio and the remaining balance was the share of the private sector.
2.04         BPD's agricultural loan portfolio (including agro-industries) amounted to MT 32.8 billion
at end-December 1988, and increased to MT 46.0 billion at end-1989. Medium- and long-term loans for
investments accounted for 19% of the portfolio in December 1988 and 29% in December 1989. The
share of state enterprises in the agricultural portfolio decreased from 88 to 71% during the period under
review, partly as a result of BPD's increased lending to the private sector and partly due to the heavy
involvement of CCADR in the financing of agricultural state enterprises during 1989 (see para 1.18
above). It is worth noting that although BPD has significantly increased its lending to the private sector,
and, in particular, focussed on providing financing for investments, lending operations were directed to
small- and medium-scale commercial producers, while cooperatives and small famfly farmers did not
benefit from the increase in institutional credit to the private s"&tor.



- 61 -
AnnaLZ
Page 7 of 8
2.05         As shown in Table 1, above, lending to agriculture by CCADR amounted to MT 25.7
billion at the end of December 1989, equivalent to about 81% of the total CCADR portfolio. As
mentioned above, state enterprises were the principal beneficiaries of CCADR lending, holding over 80%
of outstanding agricultural loans as of end-1989. The shares of agricultural cooperatives and the family
farm sector in CCADR lending, however, were insignificant.
C. Banking Network in the Proiect Areas
Namptula Province
3.01         Presently, BPD has a provincial head office (filial) with four urban branches in the
provincial capital Nampula, five district branches (agencia) and seven savings collection posts (PCPs)
which handle banking transactions (deposits and withdrawals) in passbook savings accounts. Five other
PCPs have been closed temporar;ly because of security problems. BPD is currently represented only in
two districts proposed to be included in the project: (i) in Monapo where a PCP will be upgraded and
converted into an agencia by June 1991; end (ii) in Namapa where BPD maintains an agencia. In those
districts where BPD has no offices, however, the credits technicians and their supervisors who will be
involved in group formation and lending, will be stationed in the districts and provided office space in
the district extension office. They will report to the nearest BPD agencia or filial in the province.
3.02         BM has a provincial head office in the capital-Nampula-and branches in two districts
which are not included in the project.
Cabo DenadoProvminc
3.03         BPD has a provincial head office with one urban branch office in Pemba, the capital of
the province, agencias in three districts, and PCPs in eight other districts. In the districts proposed to
be included in the project, an agencia is located in Montepuez and PCPs in Incuabe, Namuno and Chiure,
leaving only the district of Balama without BPD representation at present. As mentioned above, credit
technicians will be stationed in each of the proposed districts and will be provided with offices in either
the PCP or the district extension office.
3.04         BM has a provincial head office in Pemba and two branches in the province, one of which
is located in Montepuez.
D. Cri  to Agricultue in the Piect Am
4.01         As of March 31 1991, the total outstanding loan portfolio in BPD's main branch in
1gM& amounted to about MT 4.2 billion (USD 3.3 million), 75% (USD 2.5 million) of which were
arrears on loans made to agric"1iural state enterprises. The outstanding balance of loans to private sector
commercial farmers amounted to USD 0.3 million and included arreas of principal equivalent to about
60%. Arrears also included some loans made prior to Independeree. A more detailed analysis of the
agricultural loan portfolio could not be provided in the branch office. Credit provided in recent years



- 62 -
Page 8 of 8
to conunercial farmers financed seasonal working capital and investments in agricultural machinery and
equipment.
4.02         BPD's main branch in Pemba (Cabo Delgado province) had a total outstanding loan
portfolio of about MT 3.8 billion (USD 3.1 million), as of March 31, 1991, comprising USD 1.1 million
to state agricultural enterprises and about USD 2.0 million to the private sector. The largest volume of
lending to the private sector was for transportation (USD 0.6 million), followed by lending to commercial
farmers-USD 430,000-and the fisheries subsector-USD 170,000. About 30% of credit to commercial
frmers was short-term for seasonal working capital and the remaining 70% financed investments, mainly
tractors and othier agricultural equipment. Collection rates appear to be satisfactory. It is noteworthy
that in 1990 the branch in Pemba approved eight loans to private commercial farmers, totalling MT 140
million, comparedl to 31 loans (1MT 294 million) in 1989.



- 63 -
Annex 2
Attachmrn l
Page 1 of 2
Mozambque
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
Structure of Interest Rates. 1991
Ministerial Order
Pursuant to the provision of numeral 5 of Resolution 11/80 of December 31, concerning credit
ard interest rate policy, the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bank of Mozambique order the
following:
1.   'The following interest rates are hereby fixed for lending transactions:
I.     Central Bank discount rate: 33 percent p.a.
Percentage ceiling on use (percentage of demand deposits):
(a)    Discount: Ceiling up to 6 percent
Term: Up to 2 weeks
(b)    Discount: Addition up to 6 percent
Term: Up to 1 week
(In this case the rate shall be 2 percent higher)
I,.    Level I
Covers the following economic sectors:
- Agriculture, livestock, fisheries, and forestry
- Farm marketing
- Cooperatives
- Food industry
- Construction, public works, and housing
- Railroad and maritime transport
- Export
Working Capital                       Investment
To          To          To          To          To         Over
90          180         365          2          3            3
Days        Days        Days        Years       Years       Years
(i3n2.  3e4t)
32.5    J 33.5    j 34.5                    35 (single rate)



- 64
Annex, 2_
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
HI.   Lel2
Covers the following economic sectors:
- Public transportation of passengers and freight (individual)
- Marketing, restaurants, hotels, and tourism
- Other activities not included in Level 1
Working Capital                       Investment
l    To     To          To          To         To          Over
90         180          365         2           3           3
Days        Days        Days       Years       Years       Years
(in percent)
36      ,  37           38          40         41          42
2.    The interest rate system fixed herein may also be applied to loans outstanding on the date of entry
into force of this ministerial order if the pertinent contracts provide for modification of the interest rate
in the event a different ceiling is legally established.
3.    Disputes arising from interpretation and implementation of this (ministerial order shall be settled
by) joint order of the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bank of Mozambique.
4.    This ministerial order shall enter into force on September 23, 1991.
Maputo
September 20, 1991
Adriano Afonso Maleiane                            Eneas da Conceicao Comiche
Governor, Bank of Mozambique                       Minister of Finance



- 65 -
Page 1 of 10
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRIC:ULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROEC
The Cotton Subsector
A. Organization and M-naemn
Central Structures
1.01         Pre-Independence Organization. Three factors have a long tradition in the Mozambican
cotton industry:
(a) state involvement;
(b) family subsector production; and
(c) exclusive areas of influence.
Originally the state was the enforcer of cotton production, guaranteeing supplies of cheap raw material
for the Portuguese textile industry. Enforcement was achieved through close supervision of the small-
scale producer, the supply of seed, and the orientation of marketing; restrictions on the cultivation of
other crops; and, occasionally, the use of force. The exclusive rights to purchase and gin seed cotton
were granted to individual companies whose field staff, "Capatazes", organized smallholder production.
1.02         WUo do Alggdao de MoambiQue. In 1961, primarily in submission to international
opinion, the rights of the concessionary companies were restricted. Rather than benefit the indigenous
producers, the state endeavored to replace them with Portuguese setters. The state became a participant
in the industry acting through the Ilstituto de Algodao de Mocambique (1AM). The functions of LAM
were:
(a)    providing extension and "direction" to the family subsector,integrating the "Capatazes"
into IAM with the title of "Enquadradores";
(b)    conducting basic research on varieties, rotatons and the use of inputs. This was
undertaken for IAM by a separate research Institute, CICA which became the
Mozambican Agronomical Research Institute and later INIA;
(c)   fixing the purchase price and grning charges with respect to the family subsector;
(d)   supervising the marketing of seed cotton firom the family subsector and acting as the
buyer of last resort;
(e)    opening new development and settlement areas and providing basic infirastructure such
as wells;



66 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 10
(f)    providing production credit or acting as an intermediary for other lending agencies;
(g)   providing market outlets for groups of producers for which a fee was charged; and
(h)   conducting classification and quality control of fibre and other cotton by-products.
IAM was financed through a cotton export levy, subsidies from the state budget, and the margin between
the fixed price for family subsector seed cotton and the competitive bids of the commercial companies.
1.03         Post-Independence Reorganization. At Independence, settler producers fled and defaulted
on loans. IAM also lost managerial and professional staff who removed or destroyed records as they left.
The state had no option but to take over the ginneries and deserted farms and endeavor to restructure
IAM within the limitations of scarce professional manpower and financial resources. In 1978, IAM was
changed to INA, the Instituto Nacional do Algodao, and in 1979 the institute became defunct (though
never formally abolished), being replaced by the Secretaria de Estado do Algodao of the Ministry of
Agriculture, SEA, under a Secretary of State. SEA, unlike its predecessor, IAM, is neither autonomous,
self accounting, nor independently funded from the industry.
Provincial State Cotton Companies
1.04         Settler farms and estates were regrouped as state farms and these, together with the
ginneries and family subsector production, were made the responsibility of provincial parastatal cotton
companies established by administrative fiat rather than legal articles of association and limited liability.
Their autonomy is restricted by directives from the Provincial Director of Agriculture (PDA) and the
Secretary of State. SEA appoints managerial and technical staff; reviews twice yearly planning and
performance; and handles the majority of input procurement. The Provincial enterprises are not
profit-oriented; until recendy losses were funded by the Bank of Mozambique.
1.05         Seed cotton production from the state farms and the family subsector has progressively
declined. Only three companies, Inhambane, Nampula and Cabo Delgado are now operational. Financial
constraints have disorganized the purchase of seed cotton giving rise to a loss of confidence among family
growers. Cotton production ceased in Niassa Province although the Company still produces food crops
and raises cattle and pigs. In Nampula Province, due to the financial difficulties of the State Companies,
all field staff (agronomists, chiefs of zones and enquadradores) have been taken on to the payroll of the
newly formed Joint Venture Companies (JVCs), JFS, and Grupo Entrepesto. LOMACO has taken over
cotton production on part of the Chokwe Irrigation Scheme and the Cabo Delgado company's Montepuez
operations.
1.06         The Inhambane company operates the Inhassane-Ramalhusca Agricultural Development
Project financed by the African Development Fund, the Director of the Company being the Projec
Director. Following disappointing results from estate production as a result of labor shortages, a new
mixed farm model has increased yields dramatically. The estate area is now being farmed by voluntary
participants from the family subsector who are provided with enhanced technology and inputs for cotton
and food crops. In the opinion of the project's consultants, the successful production of cotton in the
project area depends on the successful production of food crops. The Inhassune project is still operating
at a loss, however.



- 67 -
Page 3 of 10
1.07         The generally poor performance of the Provincial Cotton Companies is basically a
consequence of a lack of management expertise compounded by low salaries. Few managers have ever
received formal training in agricultural economics or business administration, nor do they have the
experience and know-how to run complex enterprises. At the time of Independence, the nation was left
without any skilled cadre of entrepreneurs to which the management of state farms could be confidently
entrusted. Even now, with the heavy demand for such skills from the developing economy, this gap has
yet to be filled in the agricultural sector. '
B. The Importance of the Cotton Subsector
General
2.01   The full importance of cotton in Mozambique's agricultural sector at the present time is difficult
to assess with accuracy. Disruption of the marketing system has led to a shift in priority from cash to
food crops. Unfortunately, no reliable data exist on the volume of food produced for home consumption
by the family subsector. It is not possible to determine total agricultural output and assess the shares of
seed cotton and food crops therein. Cotton is, however, a well established crop in Mozambique with
cultivation dating back more than 60 years. It has been an important source of foreign exchange since
the mid 1940s and cotton ginneries contributed around 15% to the value of agro-industrial production
during the years 1980 to 1984. Since then, the share of fibre output has risen to about 25%.
2.02         Since the introduction of cotton in Mozambique there have been substantial investments
in the infrastructure of the industry. Of the 25 ginneries in existence, 13 are operational while another
three could be made operational again within a short period of time and with relatively small investments.
There are also a number of state and private farms linked to these ginneries which have considerable
quantities of farm machinery. A substantial amount of investment has also gone into the establishment
of fibre testing and grading centers and there are three textile mills with modern equipment using
domestically produced cotton lint. In addition there is a substantial road network in the cotton growing
areas, much of it consisting of paved roads in relatively good condition which brings most growing areas
within 100 km or so of a ginnery.
2.03         The Government considers cotton strategic to development, hence, its decision to
rehabilitate agricultural services in cotton growing areas. This rehabilitation is justified not only on
economic grounds, but also because of its importance for the family subsector, a large proportion of
which depends on cotton for cash income.
ProduGlio Ar
2.04        S1d Cotto  Prducion. Mozambique's cotton subsector has contracted dramatically
during the last 10 to 15 years. Seed cotton production which peaked at about 140,000 tons in the early
1970s declined to below 10,000 tons in the mid 1980s. Since then it has recovered somewhat and for
the last season (1989/1990) production reached about 25,000 tons.
I Options for State Farm Divestiture and Creation of Secure Tenure, J.W.Bruce, USAID, December
1989.



- 68 -
Anflra
Page 4 of 10
2.05         Production A_Mes. Cotton producing areas in Mozambique have been in the north and
center of the countty in the provinces of Cabo Delgado, Nampula, Zambezia, and Sofala, although small
quantities have been grown in other areas, particularly Inhambane. Nampula has been the largest
producer for over 20 years. From 1970 to 1980 Zambezia contributed about 10% during the same
period. This contribution was offset by a rise in production from Cabo Delgado and Nampula, with their
production increasing from about 50 to 65%. Since 1980 these two provinces have continued to produce
over 65% of the national total. Cotton production at present is thus concentrated in the north of the
coui&try in Cabo Delgado and Nampula. During the last ten years, over 40% of the cotton area and over
50% of cotton production has been in the Nampula province; Cabo Delgado provided some 25% of total
production during the first half of the 1980s but with the increase in irrigated cotton production in the
province of Gaza (Lomaco), its share has recently fallen to about 15%.
2.06         Producion Subsetors. The smallholder family subsector has always had an important
role in the cotton industry in Mozambique. Until 1958 all seed cotton was produced by this subsector.
In 1955 private farms and estates, operated by foreign commercial companies and Portuguese large-scale
farmers, began to grow cotton on a small scale. In 1971, however, production of seed cotton in the
private subsector exceeded that of the family subsector for the first time, and in 1974 it reached a peak
of 90,000 tons, which was double the production of smallholders. The increase in production from the
private subsector in the 1960s was achieved at the expense of the family subsector, while total production
remained at the same level. Smallholders were in fact forced to work on private farms, and this led to
a shortage of labor available for cotton cultivation in the family subsector.
2.07         Following Independence the private subsector was replaced by the state as plantations and
estates abandoned by the Portuguese were taken over by the Government. Only a small private subsector
still remains, with an even smaller cooperative subsector. During the first ten years after Independence,
production of seed cotton came in varying but roughly equal proportions from the family and the state
subsectors. But recently, because of the poor performance of the state cotton companies, the share of
the state subsector has dramatically fallen: from about 50% of total production in the mid 1980s to less
than 10% in 1988/89. This was, however, compensated by the coming into production of the first large-
scale agricultural JVC (Lomaco) which in 1988/89 produced 6,500 tons of seed cotton, or 23% of total
national production.
2.08         P tion D           The decline in seed cotton production is made up of two major
elements:
G   a drop in cultivated area from about 500,000 hectares in the mid 1960s to less than 115,000
hectares during the last three campaigns (1986/87 -1988//89);and
0   a fall in average yields of 10 to 20% in the state subsector, whose yields now stand at 600 to 900
kg/ha, and a fall in the yields of the family subsector of nearly 50% to around 150 kg/ha.
2.09         The decline in cotton area and yields is aue to a combination of factors that made cotton
cultivation unattractive to smallholder farmers and unprofitable for state enterprises:
o   smallholder farmers prefer to grow food crops which they need for family subsistence and which
are less demanding in terms of family labor inputs;



- 69 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 10
*   shortage of consumer goods, especially during and immediately after the economic crisis of the
mid-1980s, discouraged smallholders from growing cotton for cash income;
e   foreign exchange shortages and disruption of rural marketing systems by insurgents made the
supply of essential inputs and the marketing of seed cotton highly irregular, affecting yields and
incomes from cotton grown by the family and enterprise subsectors;
*   low seed cotton prices combined with the high labor demand of cotton cultivation resulted in low
returns to labor and had a discouraging effect on smallholders;
*   relatively low official prices for cotton made the cultivation of food crops in surplus to the farm
family's own needs a better source of cash income than cotton;
e   poor management of the state cotton enterprises resulted in poor performance and led to heavy
losses which had to be absorbed by a government budget which was increasingly in deficit;and
o   continuing insecurity in rural areas militated against the cultivation of cash crops and has been
one of the most important reasons for the decline in areas under cotton.
2.10         Two local varieties, Albar 637-24 and 637-33, were selected in 1967 and released for
cultivation in 1974. The Albars, with their indeterminate habitat and Jassid resistance, are ideally suited
for the family subsector and have served Mozambique and neighboring countries well. During the 1980s
there has been little attempt at seed maintenance, and seed multiplication has been rather haphazard.
There is justifiable concern that the varieties have become genetically impure and that fibre characteristics
may have deteriorated. As long as no higher yielding varieties are developed, Albar 637-24 and 637-33
will remain the standard varieties for the family subsector.
2.11         Planting seed is produced at the majority of ginneries. Each of them has a mechanical
seed dresser, in which the seed is dressed with fungicide and then bagged and stored at the ginnery. A
few ginneries have mechanical delinters, but these are not in operational condition.
2.12         Seed is usually sample tested for germination. If the rate falls below 75%, the seed goes
for oil expelling. This system is not rigorously applied and germination rates in the field are considerably
lower than 75%.
2.13         It is generally agreed that the seed quality of the two varieties, Albar 637-24 and Albar
637-33, has deteriorated. The reasons for this include poor cultivation practices, resulting in unhealthy
plants or plants not true to type, poor seed selection and inadequate storage at the ginnery.
2.14         The three-year cycle of seed selection and production of foundation seed being applied
by SEA for the two above-mentioned Albar varieties and Remu 40 (a short fibre variety suitable for
machine harvesting) on its stations at Nampula, Namialo and Montepuez, may go a long way towards
restoring seed quality if the system is closely managed and maintained. During the three year cycle, off-
types should be carefully removed and lint samples taken to test conformity to varietal characteristics and
freedom from pest and disease damage. Multiplication of foundation seed could afterwards be done by



- 70 -
Annrx 
Page 6 of 10
the JVCs or by contract farmers. Thus obtained, improved seed will be certified by SEA before being
distributed to the smallholders at a price covering the extra cost of improvement and certification.
C. Seed Cotton Marketing
3.01         Seed Buying. The buying of seed cotton from smallholder farmers in the family subsector
is organized on the basis of the areas of influence of individual ginneries. There are no fixed buying
points with permanent buildings or facilities, but instead mobile buying teams that go out to buying points
with portable scales. The cotton is weighed and recorded by the clerks of the buying teams. Advance
notice is given of the buying days in different areas. In recent years not all cotton produced by the
farmers was bought due to the security situation and other difficulties faced by the provincial cotton
companies.
3.02         Grading. Grading of seed cotton in two standard qualities, clean (Grade I) and dirty
(Grade II), is done by the farner himself. A first grading is done in the field when the farmer picks his
cotton in two different sacks tied to his waist. Upon returning home, the farmer removes any leaves and
trash and regrades any stained or dirty cotton. This grading is checked by the clerks of the buying team
at the time of sale. Lately, however, due to the security situation, farmers and the buying teams have
ceased grading the cotton properly. This situation might be difficult to rectify because farmers have
become accustomed to not having to sort, and might object to some portion of the crop rece:ving Grade
I prices in the future. For quality control, appropriate sorting is essential and there may Le a case for
reintroducing a third grade of seed cotton, which existed before 1948.
3.03         Aanmso. Seed cotton is transported to the ginneries in jute bags by heavy trucks (7 or
10 tons). The jute bags used for this purpose have a capacity of about 30 kg each and are provided by
the ginnery at no charge to the farmer. They remain the property of the ginnery for reuse but can only
be used three to four times which makes the supply of bags an expensive element in marketing costs.
D. Ginneries
4.01         There are 25 ginneries in Mozambique. At present 13 of these are operational, 3 idle
due to a lack of seed cotton, 3 non-operational and 6 damaged by guerrilla attacks. Most of the ginneries
(19) are owned by the state. In the private sector, JFS owns 4 ginneries, and CNA/Entreposto and the
Buzi company each own one. Five state-owned ginneries are presently being operated under joint venture
-         arrangements between the Government and three private companies (Lonrho, JFS, and Grupo
Entreposto). The operational ginneries are well distributed over the cotton growing areas and their total
effective capacity to process 125,000 tons of seed cotton per year is well above the current production
level. Two thirds of the national ginnery capacity is situated in the Nampula and Cabo Delgado
*         provinces.
4.02         A recent survey and updating of earlier reports on the status of the country's ginneries
shows that machinery, equipment and buildings of most of the operational and currently idle ginneries
are generally well maintained and that, except for minor repairs and procurement of badly needed spare
parts, no fiurther investments are needed to have the ginneries operating at full capacity again within a
short period of time. Expansion of seed cotton production, especially in the provinces of Nampula and



- 71 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 10
Cabo Delgado, therefore, is not constrained by ginning capacity. On the contrary, the supply of seed
cotton has to be increased considerably to make the ginning industry in these provinces profitable again.
4.03      It is clear, however, that most ginneries, and in particular those operated by the state, have
suffered from lack of funds and above all from lack of management. No information exists on processing
costs and efficiency. Ginneries run without records being kept of power consumption, machine hours run,
breakdowns and maintenance down-time, spare parts and consumption rates. Where stock cards exist in
stores, no costing of materials is maintained. Managerial skill is entirely missing. Aware of the
seriousness of this situation,the GOM has decided to transfer its ginning responsibilities to the Joint
Venture Companies.
E. Cotton Lint Marketing
5.01          Domestic Demand. Until the 1970s, nearly all cotton lint was exported, almost entirely
to Portugal. The six or seven percent which was not exported went to the textile mill in Chimoio, built
in 1949, and now owned by Textafrica. With the construction of two other mills-one in Maputo
(Texlom) built in 1974 and one in Nampula (Texmoque) which began operating in 1981--the proportion
of lint going to the national textile industry has risen considerably. The effective capacity of the three
mills together is estimated at about 30 million square meters of cloth corresponding to an intake of 10,00)
tons of lint, which in turn represents about 30,000 tons of seed cotton. A fourth mill under construction
at Mocuba in the province of Zambezia is designed for a capacity of another 34 million square meters
of cloth.
5.02         Theoretically and on the basis of their actual capacity the existing three mills could easily
absorb all lint currently produced in the country. In practice however only 30% of total lint output is
used, as mills also use man-made fibers and, for their manufacturing, require long fibre lint whose
proportion of total lint output has fallen considerably since the early 1980s.
5.03         Lint Marketing System.  Under the present system SEA allocates lint between the
domestic and export markets. In the past, state cotton companies were selling their lint for export to the
state marketing organization ENACOMO at the officially set prices for the different qualities of lint.
Recently the state cotton companies have exported their lint through private companies such as JFS. The
private companies export their lint at their own risk mainly to Portugal and the UK (Liverpool). The
Joint Venture Lomaco has been exempted from the obligation to sell part of its lint production to the local
mills, but all other companies-state and private-have to sell part of their production at the official price
for lint to the local textile industry as determined by SEA.
5.04                . Since Independence seed cotton production and lint exports have fallen
dramatically from between 30 to 40,000 tons annually in the early 1970s to less than 5,000 tons in the
late 1980s. In terms of current world market prices, this represents foregone foreign exchange earnings
on the order of USD 45.0 million per year.
5.05          Fiber T9itng and Classificaion. There are two fiber testing and grading laboratories in
Mozambique, at Maputo and at Nampula. Each laboratory has a comprehensive range of fiber testing
equipment and instruments, and classification sampling rooms. The staff are fully conversant with the
operation of all equipment and most of them have considerable experience in fiber testing and



- 72 -
Page 8 of 10
classification. The three other grading centers at Pemba, Beira and Quelimane carry out classificaion
only by standards of color, trash content, preparation and hand stapling. Fiber testing and classification
are done on a sample basis, following international requirements. At present, however, established
procedures are not always strictly followed and not all samples are going through to the laboratories.
5.06         Lint Gradesand Qalt. Mozambique classifies cotton lint in eight classes according to
fiber quality, fiber length, strength and micronaire level, and to lint grade: color, content and
preparation. The quality of Mozambique's cotton lint has deteriorated significantly over the past two
decades. Comparing earlier and later periods, there has been a noticeable shift from the higher to the
middle and lower grades. This fall in quality is causing considerable problems at the textile mills where
machine stoppages are recurrent because of low fiber strength leading to frequent yarn breaks in the
spinning process.
5.07         The shift to lower grades of lint indicates that the quality of seed cotton has been falling.
Some 90% of the seed cotton is bought by the ginneries at grade I prices but this is because they are
obliged to pay Grade I prices for seed cotton which should strictly be classified as Grade II. Ginneries
have to do this in view of the low levels of seed cotton production and ginnery throughput.
5.08         C=g See. There aue three vegetable oil extraction mills in the country located at
Maputo, Beira and Monapc. At present, due to the concentration of cotton production in the north, the
greater part of the cotton seed produced by the ginneries goes for expelling to the mill at Monapo owned
by the private company, Companhia Industrial de Monapo (Grupo Entreposto). All the edible oil
produced in Mozambique at present is consumed on the domestic market.
F. C      1n Price and P!icing System
6.01         Se Cotton. Lint and Cotton S    Prices. The prices for seed cotton, cotton lint and
cotton seed are set periodically by the National Commission for Salaries and Prices (CNSP) on the basis
of sector information provided by SEA through the Ministry of Agriculture. From Independence until
1987 when under the ERP agricultural price policies were gradually changed, cotton prices were fixed
on the basis of annual plans showing production targets to meet export and domestic demand, input
requirements and costs, and costs of processing and marketing. During that period the price of seed
cotton was raised twice, while prices for lint and cotton seed remained constant. From 1986 onwards,
*         all cotton prices have been regularly adjusted to account for inflation, devaluation of the Metical and
lately also for price developments on the world market. As a result, the price differentials between seed
cotton, lint and cotton seed have varied considerably. While lint prices have been raised from 50 Mts/kg
in 1986 to 1250 Mts/kg in 1989/90 (25 times), the price of seed cotton was allowed to increase by only
half this rate from 16 to 201 Mts/kg (12.5 times). The price of cotton seed was raised from 3.50 Mts/kg
to 40 Mts/kg (11.5 times) over the same period. The net effect of these differentiated price increases has
been that:
*    the ginnery industry has again become very profitable;
°    seed cotton producer prices remained depressed; and



73 -
Aanex 3
Page 9 of 10
e    ginnery returns from cotton seed sales decreased in real terms, offset, however, by an
increase in oil extraction returns because of lower raw material costs.
6.02         Grading, ifferentials. Price differentials between the two seed cotton grades have
remained rather stable over the years with the price for Grade I being about two and a half times the price
for the lower Grade II. This wide margin combined with the current low levels of production which
created a seller's market provided a strong incentive for farmers to force ginneries into buying Grade II
seed cotton at Grade I prices. While the price margin between seed cotton grades appears too large, the
price differentials between lint grades and fiber lengths were apparently too small for the ginneries to
adhere more strictly to the price grading of seed cotton.
6.03         Reatve Prices of -Sed Cotton And Food Crs. The priority given to food crop
production during the years following the economic crisis of 1983/84 is evident from the changes in
relative prices for cotton, maize and beans since 1985. In that year the prices for maize and beans, which
for many years had remained constant, were raised by 117 and 57% respectively, while the price for seed
cotton was allowed to increase by only 33%. Since 1987, and as a result of the agricultural pricing
policy of the ERP, the worsening trend in price relationships between cotton and its most important com-
peting food crops has been reversed, but compared to maize, the current price of seed cotton is still 20%
below what it was in the early 1980s. Compared to beans, however, the relative price of seed cotton
improved by 36%. The price relationship with groundnuts remained practically unchanged throughout
the 1980s.
Relative Prices: Seed Cotton. Maize. Beans and Groundnuts
9&1/84       19851/86     VAQ           1981/842Q
(changes)
Prices (Mts/kg)
Seed Cotton              12            16         201             16.8 times
Maize                     6            13         126             21.0 times
Beans                    15            24         184             12.3 times
Groundnuts               15            20         259             17.3 times
Price Relationship
Seed Cotton/Maize         2.00          1.23        1.60         -20.0 percent
Seed Cotton/Beans         0.80          0.68        1.09        +36.3 percent
Seed Cotton/
Groundnuts             0.80         0.80         0.77         - 4.0 percent



74 --
Annex 3
Page 10 of 10
6.04         The narrowing of the price differential between seed cotton and rnaize has had an
encouraging effect on maize production, but it has at the same time made cotton lees attractive. The
relatively high labor requirements for growing cotton has made this situation worse: the area which can
be cultivated by a smallholder family is limited by the family's labor supply, and the high labor input for
cotton has led to cotton areas being reduced or abandoned in favor of food crops. In the eyes of a
smallholder who has difficulty in producing enough food to meet household needs, the high labor
requirements and the present low price of seed cotton mean that cotton growing is less attractive than
maize. An upward revision of the seed cotton prices is not only urgently needed but appears also feasible
in view of the presently high world market price and ginnery margirts which have greatly improved
during recent years.
6.05         Ginnery Margins. Reliable figures on ginning costs are not available, but the operating
margins within which ginneries had to cover their cost have been calculated for the past ten years by
comparing the official prices of comparable grades of seed cotton and lint, assuming a ginning outturn
of 33%. Thus the calculated ginning margin dropped from about 19 Mts/kg fiber in the early 1980s to
a loss maki ig 3 Mts/kg fiber in 1985 and 1986. This was the result of seed cotton prices being raised
by 33% while lint prices were kept constant in view of the then declining world market price. From
1987 onwards, lint prices were substantially increased following the uptum in world market prices and
successive devaluations of the metical. As a result, the ginnery margin rapidly improved from 3 Mts/kg
to the present 742 Mts/kg (about 100 Mts/kg at 1986 prices). The ginning charge of 75 Mts/kg fiber set
by CNSP in 1987 bears no relation whatsoever with the present ginnery margin.
6.06         World Market Prices. With thbe gradual liberalization of cotton trade, the officially set
prices for cotton lint have lost much of their former export regulating function. They are now announced
as minimum FOB prices below which special authorization for export is needed. They are also used as
price indicators for lint sold to local textile mills. During the 1980s both the official lint price and the
realized FOB price showed marked differences with t&- cotton lint Index "A' world market price
especially in 1986 and 1987 where the then still officially ,xed price was 30 and 20% respectively above
the world market and substantial export losses had to be absorbed by the state marketing organization
ENACOMO. Since 1988, the official lint prices have followeA price movements on the world market
very closely.
6.07         Present world market prices for cotton are relatively strong as world cotton stccks have
been declining since 1985/86 and cotton consumption has increased at a favorable pace since cotton use
surged during 1986/87. The prices that have been received lately for cotton harvested in the northem
hemisphere have encouraged larger plantings for the 1990/91 season, but prices are not expected to fall
immediately as stocks have decreased to about 30% of consumption, the lowest ratio for many years.
6.08         Mozambique's seed cotton crop reached 140,000 tons in the mid 1970s, which at today's
prices would be worth about 80 million US dollars. On the basis of earlier production experience,
improving cotton production could have a significant impact on export earnings and import substitution,
and since there is considerable existing ginnery capacity, it is possible to increase production in the family
subsector without immediate major investments in processing infrastructure.



- 75 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Group Credit Arrangements
A. Background
1.01         According to agreements sigr:ed between the Government and private investors,
Joint Venture Companies (VCs) were created in the project area. These JVCs are responsible
for the procurement and distribution of inputs for cotton and food crop production to the family
subsector producing in their area of influence. In order to reduce the dependency of the family
subsector on the JVCs and to increase the effectiveness of the extension service-which would
places a major emphasis on improving existing farming systems and raising the production of
food crops--the proposed project aims to introduce gradually to the project area alternative
sources of input supplies coupled with formal credit services to be provided by the banking
system.
1.02         In close cooperation and coordination with the extension service, which will be
strengthened and enhanced under the proposed project, institutional credit will be provided to the
family subsector and to small-scale private farmers. Furthermore, the project will provide, on
a pilot basis, short-term credits to rural traders engaged in agricultural marketing in order to
increase the availability of inputs and to strengthen produce marketing .n rural areas.
1.03         Administration costs of agricultural credit services to individual smallholders
might be extremely costly and economically not justifiable. In order to rationalize credit
administration, group lending arrangements will be introduced. The formation of voluntary
groups of smallholders comprising low to medium users of inputs will be initiated and promoted
under the proposed project. Participating banks will provide seasonal credit for the purchase of
farm inputs and small tools to farmer groups which will be responsible for: making credit
arrangements with the bank; distribution of inputs to their members; and timely repayment of
credit after harvesting. Credit Groups will comprise about thirty members each. During project
implementation, about 1,000 farmer groups will be formed, with a total membership of 30,000
to 35,000 smallholder family producers or about 12-15% of the farmers in the proposed project
areas. Individual loans will also be provided by participating banks to about 2,000 medium input
user farmers with 2.25 ha farms. Furthermore, banks will provide, from their own resources,
individual loans to some 500 medium-scale commercial producers farming about 10.0 ha each
and to rural traders. In addition to seasonal credit, investment credit for the purchase of
agricultural machinery and on-farm investments will be provided to these commerciaI farmers.
Rural traders will be provided with investment credit for the purchase of trucks and the seting
up of marketing infrastructure. The total cost of the credit component of the proposed project
is estimated at USD 10.9 million.



- 76 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
B. Fornation of Farmers' Grouns
2.01         General. The proposed project will promote, in the beginning, the organization
of extension farmers' groups in order to enable the newly formed extension service to reach the
family sXabsector. After these groups begin to gain confidence in the strengthened extension
service, Credit Group (CG) will begin to be formed. These CG would comprise those farmers
inte:ested in changing and improving their farming practices and in receiving credit for the
purchase of modern inputs (fertilizer, improved sesds, plant protection chemicals and farm tools).
2.02         Go.tiDoiation. Credit Groups will be voluntary associations of family farmers
without formal legal status. Management and operations of the group, however, will be based
on standard regulations defining the group's objectives, procedures for election of office-bearers,
rights and obligations of members, including the Joint liability of members for bank credits
granted to the group, payment of membership fees, and the like. Group membership will range
between 25 and 35 members. If groups are smaller, delivery of credit services coupled with the
supply of inputs becomes difficult and increases costs, whilst larger groups are more difficult to
manage and lose the cohesiveness that is necessary for the effective functioning of the group.
Homogeneity is also essential for success, because it reinforces peer pressure, a sense of joint
responsibility, and wi!l help prevent large differences in the amounts of loans to individual
members. The regulations will be adopted by prospective members of the group at their first
formal meeting, after having been read and explained to the participants. After adoption of the
regulations, members will decide on a name for the group and elect the group officials,
comprising chairman, vice-chairman, secretary and treasurer, and at least two committees-a
credit and a disciplinary committee.
2.03         Groups will be required to maintain a membership register, a simple loan ledger,
cashbook and receipt books. All these records should be of uniform format and be supplied to
groups at a nominal charge. Members should pay an annual membership fee of, say, the
equivalent of one US dollar and groups should be encouraged to open a savings account in the
bank and deposit group funds, which could also serve as a risk fund in case of default of one
of the group's members.
2.04         Promot:on and organization of group formation will be the responsibility of the
C i        i   (CT) of the bank in conjunction with the Field Etnsion Worker (FEW).
Both should closely cooperate with, and seek the assistance and guidance of, local traditional
village leaders before finalizing the formation of a group. In addition, the Farmers Qrganization
SpgiglUi to be hired under the project and to be posted at the district level, will prepare the
groundwork and the administrative arrangements for group formation, the standard formats for
recordkeeping, the training programs for extension and bank staff and group officials, and will
assist credit and extension staff in managing credit operation and credit-related training activities.
C.  ro
3.01         By the end of January of each year, each group, assisted by the FEW, will
prepare an estimate of input requirements based on available production packages and the stage
attained by group members in crop husbandry practices. 'Te estimate of input requirements will
be submitted to the Credit Technician, who, at this stage, will assist group officials in preparing



- 77 -
Annex
Page 3 of 4
a loan application to the bank. Input requirements by all groups under his/her supervision will
be consolidated by the CT, and submitted to the Input Supply Agency (ISA) (AGRICOM and/or
BOROR) for further action, no later than the end of February. By end-July, each ISA will
inform the bank branch office about the quantities and categories of inputs it will be in a position
to supply for the growing season, and the unit costs for each item including transportation char-es
to predetermined delivery points. In case of supply difficulties of certain items, reallocation of
input requirements will be made by the Credit Technician in consultation with the FEWs and
Credit Group officials.
3.02         After finalizing the allocation of inputs and calculating total costs for each group,
the CT will enter the estimated loan amount in the loan applications and submit them to the
nearest bank agency (agencia) for formal approval. Groups that have not repaid in full all
outstanding seasonal credits will not be eligible for new fmancing. After approval of the loan,
the CT will prepare the loan agreement between the bank and the group in the form of a
promissory note, listing the names and individual loan amounts and financing charges payable,
and signed by each group member against his/her name. The promissory note will also be signed
by the elected group officials and countersigned by the CT. The document will contain standard
conditions of the bank, including the obligation of the borrowers to utilize the goods to be
supplied solely on his/her farm, follow the advice of the FEW, and repay the loan to the group
not later than 2 months after the end of the harvest. The promissory note will include an
irrevocable instruction to the JVC and/or other crop purchasing organization to deduct from the
proceeds of crop sales, due to each member, the amounts shown in the promissory note and pay
or transfer the amounts deducted to bank branch at _   account No.  (the number of
the group's loan account). The original of the promissory note will be safeguarded in the bank
branch, one copy sent to the JVC, one copy retained by the Credit Technician and the fourth
copy retained by the Credit Group secretary.
3.03         In order to simplify lending procedures and to inform each individual group
member about the total amount borrowed and repayable after harvesting, a fixed financing fee
will be charged on group credits and added to the value of inputs issued to each member This
fee will be based on the applicable interest rate prevailing at the time of loan approval and
calculated for the estimated period from the date of issue of inputs until date of repayment. If,
for instance, the applicable interest rate for credits to small-scale farmers is 20% per annum, and
the estimated period of the loan is nine months, the fixed finance charge to be added to the loan
amount/value of inputs, for each member, would be 15%.After having gained experience in
group lending, the question whether to charge interest or continue charging a fixed finaacing fee
will have to be re-examined.
3.04         After the signature of the promissory note, the Credit Technician will prepare a
delivery orde-r to the ISA, detailing the items and quantities of inputs to be supplied to each
member of a particular group. Delivery orders will be submitted to the ISA and the Credit
Technician will establish with the ISA a time schedule for delivery and issue of inputs to groups,
and advise group officials accordingly. Inputs will be issued in the presence of the Credit
Technician, who will verify that items and quantities issued are in accordance with the delive.y
order, and note any discrepancies. Receipted copies of the delivery order will be distributad as
follows: ISA, Credit Technician, FEW and Credit Group secretary.
3.05         After issue of inputs,the ISA will prepare an invoice, based on the receipt copy
of the delivery order, and submit invoices to the bank branch office.The Credit Technician will
. -



- 78 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
check the invoice against his records and approve payment. Payment will be effected by the
bank, debiting the loan account of the respective group and crediting the current account of the
ISA to be maintained in the bank branch. (It is also possible that banks will make available, from
their own resources, bridging credits to the ISA to enable them to import or purchase locally the
inputs to be supplied to the Credit Groups; in this case the bank will credit such loan account and
not the checking account of the ISA).
3.06         After issuing the inputs, the CTs will maintain close contacts with the groups
under their s,pervision and guide and assist Credit Group officials in maintaining the loan and
other records, participate in group meetings, and become aware of problems and help resolve
them if they are within *eir area of competence. The presence of the CTs in the field is
particularly important during the harvesting season, to faciliate follow up on crop sales and loan
collection. Although direct collection (not through deduction from crop proceeds by JVC) from
individual group members is the responsibility of group officials,the CTs will have to be involved
in loan collection and assist group officials, particularly during the initial phases of group
operations.
3.07         It is recommended that one Credit Technician be recruited one year before actual
credit is provided to farmers. Each CT will be given the responsibility to manage and supervise
the lending operations of about 25 groups. This will be the staffing pattern during the initial
stages of introducing group lending including the organization and formation of Credit Groups.
After 3-4 years, the number of groups assigned to one CT could gradually be increased up to a
maximum of 50. Credit Technicians will be posted in the bank branch office nearest to their area
of operation (agencia or posto de captacao), or be provided office faciilties in the district
extension office, but will report to the branch manager of the agencia located in the area, through
the credit officer of the agencia. All CTs will be equipped with motorcycles. A Senior Credit
ffice should be appointed by the bank to manage and supervise the work of the Credit
Technicians and the group lending operations, including input supply arrangements. One Senior
Credit Officer will supervise up to 6 Credit Technicians. The first Senior Credit Officer will be
nominated at project inception, and additional ones according to needs.
D. Cost of Credit Administration
4.01         It is estimated that upon reaching the phase of fifty borrowing groups per CT,
administrative expenditures of the bank on group lending operations, including supervisors,
transportation, etc. will not exceed 5% of the aggregate amount of seasonal credit to Credit
Groups. Until reaching that stage, however, costs are expected to be quite higher and will range
between 8 to 10% of the annual lending amounts.



- 79 -
Annax 5
Page 1 of 26
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultants, Main Project Implementation Staff. Studies and Surveys
I. Consultants
A. Apricultural Extension. Farmer Organization and Credit Delivery
1. Farmer Organization Specialist
Job Description and Responsibilities:
Over a period of about fifteen months, the consultant will assist the project management team and
the participating financial institutions to:
1.    Prepare a program document that outlines the overall approach for organizing groups,
both men and women, and assist them in their economic activities;
2.    Draw up standard internal regulations for farmers' groups and design formats for record-
keeping, including membership register, loan ledger, cashbook and receipt book;
3.    Design training programs in group promotion, fcr extension staff and banks' credit
technicians, and for credit group officials and office-beare.s;
4.    Prepare credit operations and procedures manual for group lending by participating
financial institutions; draw up standard formats for loan application, loan agreement and
promissory note and related documents, and design suitable training program for credit
and accounting staff of participating banks;
5.    Design a system for effective procurement and supply of farm inputs and implements to
beneficiaries of group credit; and
6.    Establish a system for the preparation of annual budgets, work programs, performance
monitoring and reviews and periodic reports on farmer organization, credit operations
and other related activities.



- 80 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 26
Qualifications and Exprience:
Suitable university degree and specialized training and work experience in group dynamics and
cooperatives. At least three years' experience in developing countries in tasks related to promotion and
organization of farmers' groups or cooperatives and to credit delivery to groups coupled with the
organiztion of input supply. Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish.
2. Credit Spneiai
Iob Descrintion and Responsibilities:
Over a period of about four months, an internationally recruited consultant would assist
management of BPD to:
1.    Reorganize the credit departments in the head office and main branches in the provinces;
assess staffing requirements and skills and prepare job descriptions for credit staff and
training needs;
2.    Review the existing procedures and prepare revised and improved lending operations and
procedures manual; and
3.    Revise and improve reporting and information systems on lending operations and loan
collections.
Qualifmictns and Exre:
Consultant should have extensive experience (at least 10 years) in management and organization
of credit operations in commercial or development banks and should be fluent in spoken and written
Portuguese.
3. Extension Mmagenent Specialist (EM
Job D-scpinion And Resr,onibilities:
The main responsibility of the EMS will be to advise and assist extension staff, both at the HQ
and in the project area, in the design and implementation of a suitable extension methodology along the
T&V system, modified to reflect local conditions. Specifically, his/her responsibilities will include:
1.    Help design, whenever necessary, an extension methodology along the T&V system
suitable for the various project areas, and supervise its implementation;
2.    Coordinate a two-way flow of information on training neessities and opportities



- 81 -
Page 3 of 26
between Extension and Research;
3.    Advise in the production and/or provision of extension aids, and approve their use in
extension;
4.    Participate in the monitoring and evaluation exercises; and
5.    Conduct courses, seminars and workshops in extension methodology.
Oualifications and Exnerience:
The EMS should have a post-graduate degree in Agricultural Extension and at least five years
experience in a leading position related to field extension management in a developing country, preferably
under the T&V system. Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish.
B. Research
4. Cotton Breingpcalist
Job Descritnion and ResponsibilitirA:
The cotton breeding specialist will be stationed at Nampula where he/she will assist INIA in the
development, preparation, and implementation of a national cotton breeding program. He/she will be
responsible to the director of INIA through his designated representative in Nampula. His/her specific
duties will include, but will not be limited to, providing assistance to:
1.    INIA in the design and preparation of a national cotton breeding strategy and program,
taking into account previous local experience in cotton varietal performance,
developments in cotton varietal improvement in neighboring countries with similar agro-
climatic conditions and local manpower capacity;
2.    Guide the Namialo research station in the implementation of a cotton varietal evaluation
program to select varieties which could be recommended to replace existing varieties or
to use in the breeding program being designed;
.    Develop detailed terms of reference for short-term consultants and assist in their
identification and recruitment; and
4.    INIA in assessing training needs and in developing and undertaking training of local staff
19          in plant breeding techniques and appropriate cotton production practices.



- 82 -
Annix 
Page 4 of 26
Qualifications and Experience:
MSc or PhD degree in plant breeding or related discipline. Minimum of 5 years experience in
cotton breeding with particular emphasis on breeding for insect resistance. Experience in, and familiarity
with: commercial cotton production practices; training coui,terpart staff and support personnel; and
working overseas, preferably in Africa. Working knowledge of Portuguese or Spanish.
5. Integrated Past Management Specialist
Job Description and Responsibilities:
The integrated pest management (1PM) specialist will be stationed at Nampula where he/she will
assist INIA in the development of cost-effective IPM practices for family subsector cotton producers.
He/she will be responsible to the director of INIA through his designated representative in Nampula.
His/her specific duties will include, but will not be limited to, providing assistance to INIA to:
1.    Investigate various pest control methods being practiced in the area, design 2nd test
appropriate cost-effective IPM practices for the family subsector cotton production
system, which include food crops production;
2.    Train local staff of INIA in field plot techniques and experimental design for undertaking
simple EPM research trials and on-farm demonstrations;
3.    Assist the extension service and INIA develop simple publications on recommended IPM
practices for dissemination to extension workers, enquadradores and farmers;
4.    Assess training needs of staff, identify appropriate training institutions at which staff may
be trained and make necessary arrangements for short-term training of staff; and
5.    Develop detailed Terms of Reference for short-term consultants and assist in their
identification and recruitment.
9aifications and Expince:
MSc or PhD degree in entomology or pest marnagement. Minimum of 5 years of experience in
IPM for cotton, particularly in developing countries. Experience in, and familiarity with: commercial
cotton production practices in developing countries, particularly the use of new spray application
methois/equipment like the ultra-low volume sprayers; training counterpart staff and support personnel;
and working overseas, preferably in Africa. Working knowledge of Portuguese or Spanish.



- 83 -
Ann" 5
Page 5 of 26
6. Farming Systems Agronomist/Horgiculturist
Job Descrintion and ResDonsibilities:
The faming systems agronomist/horticulturist will be stationed at Nampula where he/she will
assist INIA in the identification of dominant cropping patterns and livestock production enterprises in the
cotton based family subsector production systems of Nampula province. He/she will be responsible to
the director of INIA through his designated representative in Nampula. His/her specific duties will
include, but will not be limited to, providing assistance to INIA to:
1.    Design and conduct diagnostic surveys to characterize the cropping patterns and livestock
enterprises in the family subsector cotton production system and to properly interpret the
results obtained;
2.    Design and implement research trials to remove production constraints or problems
identified during the diagnostic surveys;
a2.    Train local staff in the farming systems approach of improving the cotton based farming
systems of the area, taking into consideration environmental and financial constraints the
farmers are operating under;
4.    Provide on-the-job training to local staff on field plot techniques, experimental design and
analysis of results in on-station and on-farm trials; and
S.    Assist in developing detailed terms of reference and in the recruitment of short-term
consultants.
Qualifications and Experience:
MSc or PhD degree in agronomy or horticultural science or management. Minimum of 5 years
of research experience in developing countries, particularly in the methodologies in using the farming
systems approach for improving crop/livestock production systems. He/she is expected to have
experience in: working with extension staff and farmers; training counterpart staff and support personnel;
and working overseas, preferably in Africa. Working knowledge of Portuguese or Spanish.
C. Rural Water Su@plI
7. Technical Ai$er
job Descitinad  epnsibilities:
The Technical Adviser, who will be stationed in the Department of Water (DA) of DPCA-
Nampula, will assist the Deparanent and also EPAR in their various duties, and particularly in those



- 84 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 26
related to project activities. His/her specific duties will include but not be limited to:
1.    Assisting EPAR (and specifically the Water Supply Adviser and the Community
Participation Adviser) in preparation of the Operation and Maintenance Plan and the
Community Mobilization and Participation Plan;
2.    Preparing, together with the staff of DA and in cooperation with EPAR and other
agencies related to sector activitias, a 5-Year Water Supply Development Plan which will
include programs for rehabilitation of existing water supplies and for construction of new
water supplies and estimates for required financing. Assisting the Department and training
the staff in the annual updating of the plan;
3.    Assisting local agencies in the planning, design, rehabilitation and construction of rural
water supply systems;
4.    Assisting the Department of Water and EPAR in improving their management and
operational arrangements and procedures;
5.    Assisting the agencies in planning, monitoring and coordination of component activities
including the preparation and updating of detailed implementation schedules and in
reporting component activities;
6.    Assessing training needs and organizing and conducting training courses;
7.    Assisting short-term consultants in carrying out their assignments and supervising their
werk; and
8.    Training the counterpart personnel.
Qualifcto  ad -Exerience:
BSc or MSc degree in engineering; minimum of 7 years experience in the water supply sector
with particular emphasis on water supply in rural areas; experience in planning and supervision of water
supply activities, experience in water supply operation and maintenance and in training will be an
additional advantage; experience in dealing with government officials, donors and beneficiaries in
developing coun.ries; experience in working on projects; and reasonable knowledge of Portuguese and/or
Spanish.
8. Watr SDlAdviser
The Water Supply Adviser will be stationed at EPAR, Nampula. He/she will assist EPAR
and, if necessary, the Department of Water (DA) in matters related to construction, rehabilitation and
operation and maintenance of rural water supplies. HiM,Ier specific duties would include but not be
limited to:



- 85 -
Page 7 of 26
1.    Preparing, together with staff of EPAR and witl lie assistance of the Technical Adviser
in DA and in cooperation with PRONAR and DA, the Operation and Maintenance Plan
and assisting in its implementation;
2.    Assisting in the preparation of the Community Mobilization and Participation Plan;
3.    Assisting EPAR in planning and implementing component related to rehabilitation of
existing water supplies and construction of new point source water supplies and assisting
EPAR in developing its implementation, reporting and management methods and
procedures;
4.    Assessing training needs in operation and maintenance and organizing and conducting
training courses; and
5.    Training counterpart personnel.
Qualifications and Experionce:
BSc or MSc degree in engineering; minimum of 7 years experience in water supply sector with
particular emphasis on rural water supply; experience in operation and maintenance of rural water
supplies and construction of point source water systems; experience in dealing with government officials,
donors and beneficiaries in developing countries; experience in working on projects; and reasonable
knowledge of Portuguese and/or Spanish.
D. Land Use and Land Managfment
9. Land Tenure Speialist
Job Descrintion and Responsibilities:
The land tenure specialist is a short-term consultant and will be contracted at different times of
the component schedule when his/her expertise is needed. The land tenure specialist's specific
responsibilities are to assist the component coordinator:
1.    Design the methodology and research instruments for this component, particularly with
those aspects that concern land tenure;
2.    Process and analyze the data from the fist district;
3.    Modify the methodology and procedures after the first (pilot) district is surveyed, as
needed;
4.    Analyze the aggregi-ed data from all districts in year 5, once it is collected and
processed;



- 86 -
AnnE E
Page 8 of 26
S.    Modify the survey interview schedule as necessary for the re-interviews in year 8;
6.    Prepare reports detailing the survey data analysis results in years 5 and 8; and
7.    Prepare policy recommendations oit land tenure, land use and land titling in years 5 and
8 based on the research results and other activities of this component.
Qualifications and Experience:
The land tenure specialist should be a qualified sciologist, agricultural economist, or   phe
and should have a post-graduate degree in their field. He/sb, should have extensive experience (at least
five years) in land tenure research programs, and at least t%, years experience in Sub-Saharan Africa
project work. He/she should also be willing to commit short periods of time (2-3 months) over the life
of the project. The land tenure specialist will most likely be an international consultant and should be
fluent in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish.
10. Senior Agronomist
Lob Description and Responsibilities:
The senior agronomist is a short-term consultant and will be contracted at different times of the
component schedule when his/her expertise is needed. The senior agronomist's specific responsibilities
are to assist the component coordinator:
1.    Design the methodology and research instruments for this component, particularly with
those aspects that concern land use and agronomic practices;
2.    Process and analyze the data from the first district;
3.    Modify the methodology and procedures after the first (pilot) district is surveyed, as
needed;
4.    Analyze the aggregated data from all districts in year 5, once it is collected and
processed;
5.    Modify the survey interview schedule as necessary for the re-interviews in year 8;
6.    Prepare reports detailing the survey data analysis results in years 5 and 8; and
7.    Prepare policy recommendations on land use and management in years 5 and 8 based on
the research results and other activities of this component.



- 87 -
Annex 5
Page 9 of 26
Oualifications and Experience:
The senior agronomist should be an experienced proressional with a post-graduate degree in
agronomy or related field. Every effort should be made to hire a national agronomist. He/she should
have extensive field and research experience (at least five years) in agronomic practices, land use and land
management in Sub-Saharan Africa. He/she should also be willing to commit short periods of time (2-3
months) over the life of the project. The senior agronomist should be fluent in spoken and written
Portuguese or Spanish.
I 1. pedoloiist
Job DescriDtion and Responsibilities:
The pedologist will be hired for two years (years 2 and 3) to undertake soil analysis in all the
project districts. His/her specific responsibilities are to:
1.    Work with the aerial photographs and mapps provided by DINAGECA;
2.    Visit the districts and carry out soil analysis, utilizing soil information already available
in INIA;
3.    Transfer the collected information to the maps;
4.    Prepare a report and maps on soils and soil suitability in the project area; and
5.    Formulate recommendations to INIA regarding appropriate soil conservation and land
management practices for the project region.
Quaif-ications and Exerience.:
Since Mozambique does not presently have trained pedologists, an international consultant will
have to be contracted. TMe pedologist should have a post-graduate degree and at least two years field
experience in Sub-Saharan Africa.



- 88 -
Anno-S
Page 10 of 26
E. Projeet Management
12.  oject CooWdination and Manae-ment Consxtant
Inh D-escrpigntionad Responsibilities:
The Project Coordination and Management Consultant will assist the Project Coordinator, Project
Coordinator Assistant and the Component Coordinators to organize and set up systems and procedures
for the coordination, monitoring and financial control of the project. He/she will guide the activities of
the consultants mentioned below. He/she will also assist the Field Project Coordinators as described
above. The consultancy will be provided over a period of 20 months, divided into three or four periods.
The hirst period will be for between 6 and 12 months. The position will involve considerable travel
between Maputo and the provinces. The responsibilities include:
1.    Helping establish procedures for bottom-up planning and budgeting and for plan and
budget consolidation, including participation in the selection of computer software and
training in its application and use;
2.    Helping establish procedures for inter component project coordination;
3.    Helping the coordinating staff in the use of the monitoring system, in analysis of
information in order to recognize the existence of problems, and in problem solving;
4.    Guiding the work of the other management consultants;
5.    Training the coordinating staff through on-the-job training and through seminars in
project management; and
6.    Monitoring the use and application of the system during supervision visits and revising
the procedures where necessary in light of experience.
Tbe consultant should have an advanced degree in Business Administration or in Industrial
Engineeing and at least ten years of experience in project management in a developing country. He/shG
should be fluent in spoken and w:itten Portuguese or Spalish as well as in English.
13.  _     Emn  n   rktmi tgkzCuk
The Planning and Organizational Procedures Consultant will work closely with the Project
Coordination and Management Consultant in developing the tools necessary for project management and



- 89 -
Annex 5
Page 11 of 26
in selection of software suitable for application in this project. The consultancy will be for a total of five
months divided into three periods and will include:
1.    Detailing the procedures, and refining them as necessary in light of expbrience,
identifying suitable software; evaluating the alternatives and together with the Project
Coordination and Management Consultant choosing the software to be purchased. Where
necessary, he/she will customize the software; and
2.    Assisting in training local staff in the use of the software and in the application of the
procedures.
=ualificaions and Exnerience:
The consultant should have a degree in Business Administration or in Industrial Engineering and
at least five years experience in project management, preferably in a developing country. He/she should
have broad experience in the use of computers in project management. He/she should be fluent in spoken
and written Portuguese or Spanish as well as in English.
14. Financial Control Consultant
lob Dscrtioon and       ibilities:
Over a period of ten months, divided into two or three periods, the Financial Control
Consultant will develop and institute a financial control and accounting system for the project. The
system should satisfy project needs and the requirements of IDA and of GOM. The duties include:
1.    Analyzing project requirements for financial control and accounting and developing the
necessary systems and procedures;
2.    Selecting software and customizing it as necessary;
3.    Training the staff in the use of the financial control and accounting system, in their
procedures and in the preparation of financial reports; and
4.    Monitoring the use and application of the system during supervision visits and revising
the procedures where necessary in light of experience.
g
The consultant should have an advanced degree in Accounting or the equivalent, and at least ten
years experience in fiacial management in a project enviroment, at least five of them in a developing
country. He/she should be fluent in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish as well as in English.



-  0-
Annex 5
Page 12 of 26
15. Procurement Procedures Consultat
Job Description and Responsibilitis:
Over a period of three months the consultant will assist the Project Coordinator and the
Component Coordinators to:
1.    Design procurement procedures for the procurement of services and equipment in
accordance with IDA and Government of Mozambique requirements;
2.    Design procedures for the evaluation and comparison of bids received and selection
criteria;
3.    Train local staff through workshops in he application of the procedures and in the
preparation of requests for quotations an? proposals; and
4.    Prepare standard documents for procurement.
Qualifications and Experience:
The consultant should have a degree in industrial or mechanical engineering and at least five years
experience in procurement, preferably in a developing country. He/she should be fluent in spoken and
written Portuguese or Spanish as well as in English.
16. Pricinf Policy Analysis Specialist
job Description and Responsibilities:
Over a period of six months the consultant Will assist the UDA in MOA to:
1.    Analyze and update information on cotton production and processing costs in the context
of smallholder practices and production incentives, rural procurement and transportation
expenses, processing costs, and the maintenance of international export markets;
2.    Formulate, in cooperation with producer representatives and ministries involved, a long-
term cotton pricing policy;
3.    Identify requirements and propose a plan for strengthening and improving rural cotton
procurement and transportation systems;
4.    Desip a simple system for the future updating of cotton pricing policy and monitoring
of farmgate and factory procurement costs and prices, as well as processing and
transportation costs;



- 91 -
Amex S
Page 13 of 26
5.    Recommend and assist the UDA in seeking National Commission for Salaries and Pr '
(CNSP) agreement to new farmgate and factory procurement pricing policies and
systems;
6.    Recommend a phased plan for the implementation of long-term cotton pricing policy
measures; and
7.    Prepare a UDA staff training plan in marketing and pricing policies.
Quaificions and Eperiec: A graduate degree in economics. At least five years experience in
agricultural commodity pricing research and policy planning in compaiable developing countries. Fluency
in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish.
F. Monitoring ..d Evalugtion
17. Monitoring and Evaluation Snecialist
Job D-scription a-nd Resnons-ibilitios:
Over a periori of about two and a half years, the consultant will assist the Secretary of State for
Cotton and the line agencies responsible for the execution of project components to:
1.    Design and supervise the implementation of a sound M&E system including:
a)    Finalize monitoring objectives;
b)    Finalize monitoring indicators;
c)    Establish annual work targets; and
d)    Develop reporting format.
2.    Train supervision staff from line agencies in monitoring and evaluation activities;
3.    Lead seminars for supervision and field staff on data collection and reporting techniques;
4.    Coordinate field survey work and assist in the preparation of field questionnaires and data
tabulation;
S.    Establish operating computer system and database;
6.    Prepare semi-annual progress reports from the information passed on by the line agencies
and outside consulting teams; and



- 92 -
Page 14 of 26
7.    Supervise the implementation of on-going and in-depth evaluations.
lalifcations and Exoerience:
Graduate degree in economics, statistics, business administration, or relevant social sciences. At
least ten years experience in designing and conducting monitoring and evaluation systems in comparable
African developing eountries is required. A knowledge of survey systems (sampling, data collection, data
processing and analysis) is essential, as is familiarity with the use of micro-computers. Experience in
managing agricultural development projects and in applying modern management techniques to such
projects is preferred. Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish.
18. Short-Term Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Job Desciption and Responsibilities:
Over a period of about four months (consisting of two months in year 1 and two months in year
4 of the project) the consultant will assist the M&E Coordinator to:
1.    Meet with agency directors and agree on final objectives and monitoring areas;
2.    Develop a final set of indicators;
3.    Develop a work plan against which the indicators can be compared;
4.    Organize workshops which develop consensus and understanding among field
supervisors, and central agency staff on how to measure and analyze each monitoring
indicator;
5.    Assist in preparing reporting formats;
6.    Assist in developing a computer database of monitoring information; and
7.    Help make mid-term modifications in reporting formats, and database systems.
Oualifications andExr
Graduate degree in economics, statistics, business administration or relevant social sciences. At
least five years experience in designing and conducting monitoring and evaluation systems in comparable
African developing countries is required. A knowledge of survey systems (sampling, data collection, data
processing and analysis) is essential, as is familiarity with the use of micro-computers. Experience in
database systems and management information reporting formats is essential. Fluency in spoken and
written Portuguese or Spanish.



- 93 -
Page 15 of 26
19.  atabase/Computer ProgrammeQr
Job Description and Responsibilities:
Over a period of one month the consultant will assist the project monitoring and evaluation unit
to:
1.    Prepare a database for the baseline survey;
2.    Help tabulate baseline survey results;
3.    Train a local programmer in the use of the baseline database; and
4.    Assist in modifying/improving existing computer systems used for monitoring and
evaluation.
Qualification and ExpErience:
Graduate degree in computer programming. At least five years experience in designing and
conducting baseline database systems in comparable developing countries is required. Fluency in spoken
and written Portuguese or Spanish.
20. Mid-term/End-of-P"roje Eva-luation Consultants
Job 1Description and Resaponibliie-s:
The project will hire a teaun of consultants to complete mid-term (year 4) and end-of-project
evaluations (year 8). Each evaluation will last a total of six weeks. The evaluation team will consist of
the following: a) rural sociologist; b) economist; c) agronomist; and d) institutional specialist. The team
will evaluate the following areas:
1.    Sociological hnpact:
a)     Effect on land tenure;
b)    Changes in family structure; and
c)     Changes in labor utilization.
2.    Economic Impact:
a)     Changes in family incomes;
b)    Overall economic viability of the project; and



- 94 -
Page 16 of 26
c)    Effectiveness of pricing policies on small farmers.
3.    Agronomic Impact:
a)    Changes in cropping patterns;
b)    Effectiveness of agricultural extension and research programs; and
c)    Overall adoption rates of new inputs and technologies.
4.    Institutional Development:
a)    Coordination between implementing agencies;
b)    Adequacy and effectiveness of training programs;
c)    Level of staff morale and retention; and
d)    Planning and implementation capability of the Secretary of State for Cotton and
other agencies.
ualifictons and Exoerinc:
Graduate degree in rural sociology (rural sociologist), economics (economist), agronomy or
agricultural economics (agronomist), business management (institutional specialist). At least five years
experience in designing and conducting agricultural development evaluations in comparable African
developing countries is required. Fluency in spoken and written Portuguese or Spanish.
21. Staistician/Economnis
DobDscription and Responiblities:
The project will finance a baseline survey that will require an economist/statistician to serve as
survey leader. The survey leader will carry out the following tasks:
1.    Design the survey instrument;
2.    Supervise random sampling of farmers;
3.    Pre-tt the field survey questionnaire;
4.    Supervise the execution of the field survey;
5.    Tabulate and analyze the field data; and



- 95 -
A.nn
Page 17 of 26
6.    Prepare final report on the field survey results.
Qualifications and Experience:
Graduate degree in economics, statistics, business administration, or relevant social sciences. At
least ten years experience in designing and conducting baseline surveys in comparable African developing
countries is required. A detailed technical knowledge of survey systems (sampling, data collection, data
processing and analysis) is essential, as is familiarity with the use of micro-computers. Experience in
database systems and management informarion reporting formats is essential. Fluency in spoken and
written Portuguese or Spanish.
II. Main Project Implementation Staff
1. Project Coordinators
Job Description and Responsibilities.
A Project Coordinator for Maputo and two Field 7.oject Coordinators will be required,
one for each of the two provinces participating in the project. The Project and the Field Coordinators
will coordinate the implementation of the project and will work closely with all the Component
Coordinators to assist them to plan and to budget their components and to resolve problems confronted
in the course of implementation. They will receive support from the Project Coordination and
Management Consultant. Their main duties wiii include, but not be limited to, the following:
1.    Setting up the coordinating procedures and systems and the planning and budgeting
systems at the project, provincial and district levels;
2.    Assisting the component coordinators to plan and budget their components and to resolve
problems;
3.    Expediting the proj).    various levels; and
4.    Training a replacemv.. o take charge of coordination before contract completion.
Queaificaton    erience:
The Project Coordinator and Field Project Coordinators should be Mozambican. They
should have degrees in Business Administration, Industrial Engineering, or Agriculture and at least five
years experience in project management. They should be very familiar with Mozambique government
agriculual institutions. Management experience and/or management training in a developed country
would be an advantage. They should be fluent in spoken and written English.



- 96 -
Annex-5
Page 18 of 26
2. Comnmnent Coordinar
Job DescriDtion and Responsibilitie:
A Component Coordinator will be responsible for the implementation of each component.
He/she will represent the inistitution responsible for that component and will be its spokesman on the
Project Coordinating Committee. The Component Coordinator (CC) will make the final decisions
concerning his component, in conjunction with the Field Coordinator and in consultation with the Project
Coordinator. The CC responsibilities will include, but not be limited to, the following:
1.    Participating in all meetings of the Project Coordinating Committee;
2.    Liaising with the coordinators of other components to resolve inter- component problems;
3.    Assisting the provincial authorities in plan preparation, annual planning and budgeting
and in other fields as required;
4.    Making periodic superyision visits to the provinces and advising the field coordinator on
implementation;
5.    Preparing periodic reports on project progress;
6.    Interceding with government authorities in Maputo to facilitate implementation in the
provinces;
7.    Assisting in the recruiting of professionals both local and expatriate to serve in his
component;
8.    Faciitating the procurement and delivery of vehicles, spares and supplies of all sorts
required in the provinces;
9.    Facilitating the implementation of the component in all ways necessary and assuring that
all agreements are carried out; and
10.   Removing obstacles of all sorts and resolving problems which must be handled at the
central and field levels.
Qlamndprd
The (.'.%. nponent Coordinator will be a Mozambican and a person of recognized authority in
his/her instituXi.e. He/she should be a degreed professional in the mau field of action. Management
experience andor experience in implementation of donor-assisted projects would be an advantage. The
Component Coordinator should be able to communicate in Eaglish.



- 97 -
Page 19 of 26
mH. Studies and Surveys
1. Rapid Assessment Field Sulreys
Qjrbiec . The main objective of these field surveys is to provide insight into the project's
achievement of intermediate objectives including: a) adequate coverage of project area by extension; b)
adoption of nw inputs and technologies; c) farmer's reaction to project services; and d) planning and
implementation capability of participating agencies.
Thcre will be a total of four field surveys carried out at the end of years 3, 5, 6 and 7 (NOTE:
Years 4 -d 8 are covered by the mid-term and end-of-project evaluation. Years 1 and 2 are not targeted
since the projat will be in a start-up phase and the monitoring and evaluation unit will be busy
completing a baselLa survey.)
The field surveys wili cover a total of 30-40 families evenly divided between Cabo Delgado and
Nampula provinces. The survey will focus on assisted farmers and will be randomly selected from lists
compiled from the extension network.
anition. sffing ad Time Schedule. The precise organization, staffing and time schedule for
these field surveys may vary as the project proceeds. Tentadve staffing and preparation costs for the four
surveys are estimated as follows:
inff                           mE
(man-months)
Economist/Sociologist                   6
Agronomist                              6
Field Technicians                      I
Total:                             15
ImTonCst Mmate                    LIMSD
Jerntonal/Local Staff (1)              73
Travel                                  5
Equipment Rental/Reporting              6
Miscellaneous                          A2
Total:                             96
(1) The project should hire local or international staff residing in Mozambique.



- 98 -
Annex S
Page 20 of 26
2. Case Studies
Objectives. The objectives of the case studies will be to analyze in detail issues associated with
the project. The specific issues studied will be derived from anv problems or concerns raised by the
quarterly monitoring system and/or the field surveys. Some examples of in-depth case studies might
include: the role of women in the extension program, the effectiveness of the government's pricing
policies and the success of the project in forming credit groups.
There will be four case studies carried out during the eight-year project. The case studies will
be carried out by specialists outside the project. Depending on the subject material, the case study team
should work as closely as possible with the project monitoring and evaluation team. The participation
of the project monitoring and evaluation unit will ensure that the study team does not encounter factual
problems and will also make the project staff feel as though the studies are intended to help them in
improving their performance rather than to judge their performance.
Organization. Staffing and Time Schedule. It is expected that each case study will take
approximately 5 weeks to complete. Depending on the subject material, it is expected that each study
will consist of an economist/sociologist, agronomist and a field technician. Specific staffing and time
requirements for the four studies is presented below:
Staffing                          Estimated Inu
(man-months)
Economist/Sociologist                  5
Agronomist                             5
Field Technicians                      25
Total:                             12.5
TQentive, Cost Estimae            1W_:M
International/Local Staff (1)         61
Travel                                34
Equipment Rental/Reporting             7
Miscellaneous                         A
Total:                            112
(1) The project should hire local or international staff residing in Mozambique.
3. Baseline and End
Qbiwive.   The primary objective of the baseline survey is to develop a more detailed
understanding of the cultural practices and constraints that affect the family secor, as well as to develop
a database on farmer incomes and potential land tenure problems. More specifically, the survey will
cover the following five areas: a) family incomes; b) cropping paerns for cotton and food crops; c)



-.99
Annex 
Page 21 of 26
agronomic practices; d) family structure (e.g. family size, labor utilization); and e) land tenure.
The survey will cover 350-400 families divided between Cabo Delgado and Nampula provinces.
Included in the survey will be a control group of unassisted farmers (preferably at similar income levels
and agricultural pract.ce levels to the families targeted within the project area).
The survey team will consist of one expatriate with a statistician/economics background; three
local professionals with backgrounds in agronomy, _conomics or sociology, and database programming;
and field enumerators. The expatriate will serr-e as the survey supervisor.
Ornization Staftinand Time Schedule. L is expected that the baseline survey will take about
six months to complete. The end-of-project survey, if it is needed, is expected to take about two months
less to complete, or about four months. The actual division of labor and person-months nxay change as
the project proceeds. The expected staff and time schedule for both surveys is estimated as follow!:
.&af fing                         Estimated Input
(man-months)
Steistician/Economist                 10
Agronomist                            10
Economist/Sociologist                 10
Database Programmer                    6
Enumerators                            2
Secretary                             la
Total:                            48
Tentative Cost Estimates          JISD_'
International/Local Staff            158
Travel                                52
Equipment Rental/Reporting            22
Miscellaneous                        A
Total:                           24^
4. A$ssessmt of Heft alp
ONftmod. Given the possibility that some of project participants will use some chemicals for
pest and disease management, and the fact that presendy the use of chemicals in the preiect area is
negligible, there might be in the future some health impact caused by this change in behavior. A recent
environmental assessment of the project also pointed out that, at present, no detrimental effects or
hazardous health situations were detected in the area.
0jWive6. The main objectives of the proposed study would be to identify health hazards and
negative impact caused by the project, and to develop a comprehensive, phased and costed action plan



- 100 -
Page 22 of 26
for addressing them.
Organzat_[P.  taSff-ing and Costs. It is expected that the study will be conducted in two main
phases. The first would be focussed on data gathering during field visits to two districts in each of the
Nampula and Cabo Delgado provinces. A workshop would subsequently be held to discuss field findings,
and as a first step toward the second phase of developing an action plan to address specific changes
needed to mitigate the negative health iUpact detected. This action plan would take due account of local
institutional capacity to implement proposed actions, and would suggest cost-effective ways for
strengthening institutional capacity. It would also specify timing for the implementation of, and cost
estimates of, the actions proposed. Finally, it would propose mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating
the implementation of proposed actions, including a beneficiary impact assessment. Total study costs are
estimated at about USD 120,000.
5.    ration and Maintenance Plan for Rural WaterSonly
Puae, of      m. The purpose of the Operation and Maintenance Plan is to define how to
implement the operation and maintenance system for the rural water supply in Narnpula Province. The
Plan will be based on the results of the Water Supply Systems Inventory, experience in other projects
(e.g. Cabo Delgat5 Water Program), and the recently agreed national O&M and Community Mobilization
and Participation policies. The Plan should emphasize decentralization of responsibilities, community level
management and cost recovery aspects.
Contents of the Plan. The plan will include the following:
o   Inventory and assessment of the present operation and maintenance systems:
organizations, staffing, equipment, O&M practices, community involvement, costs,
financing;
o   Assessment of the O&M requirements (present and future);
0   The O&M system in Nampula Province: Institutional arrangements, manpower and
training requirements, facilities, costs and financing. The plan should also include a
scheiu!e for its implementation with a detailed program (with inputs and costs) for the
next 2 years.
Implemninf the-Plan. The Plan will be prepared by the Water Supply Adviser posted in
EPAR and submited to DA for approval. The estimated duration of the plan design is 3 months.



-- 101 -
Page 23 of 26
6. Land Rggistion ad Titi t
flacknound
The Land Use and Management component of the Project will explore and provide information
on a number of land policy issues including land tenure, registration and titling, and soil conservation.
This is occurring at a time when Mozambique is undergoing restructuring and reviewing its land and
property policies.
Following Independence, the GOM enacted a Land Law (Law NO 6/79) to cover basic land
tenure, and in 1987 the Land Regulations (Decree NO 16/87) were enacted to clarify some issues of the
land law. The law states that all land is the property of the state and cannot be sold, ceded, rented,
mortgaged or pawned (improvements on the land can however be mortgaged). All single and collective
persons with legal personality can hold title to use land and the state will defend that title. Such titles arise
through a license from the state, however family farms are not obliged to obtain a use title. Fees are
payable for use by private farmers but not by the state or by family farmers. The distinction the law
draws between private farmers and ramily farmers is that family farmers employ no labor, while private
farmers do. The title does not include freedom of management since the user "must utilize the land
rationally, in conformity with the authorized plan of exploitation'. A provincial government may grant
rights to use land for agricultural production, livestock, or forestry in areas below 250, 500 and 1000 ha
respectively. Leases for larger areas must be approved by the Minister of Agriculture. Within
municipalities, the municipal Executive Council approves land leases. DINAGECA has the task of
controlling the register and the occupation of land through its provincial arm Servigos Provinciais de
Geografia e Cadastro (SPGC). Among family farmers there does not appear to be widespread
understanding sr use of the law. Between 1987 and 1990, only 1,010 titles were given to family farmers.
This rapresented only 1.9% of the land controlled by the law.
A family farmer need not have a lease but can apply for one. Each member of the extended
family group is supposed to have in perennial or annual production no more than a quarter of a hectare
in irrigated, and a half hectare in rainfed agriculture. If shifting cultivation is practiced, the family may
have a complementary area not exceeding 10 hectares. If the family group is moved fom the land they
occupy, there must be an express declaration of why this is necessary. In such a case, compensation must
be paid in advance before the move and new land of similar value must be provided. If a family group
leaves land of its own volition for over two years without justification, the right to use the land terminates
and all improvements on the land go to the state without compensation. The group may return to the land
at a later date if no one else has begun to use it. The two major areas of conflict in the use of land are
first between family farmers and newly developing private farmers and second in the zones between the
urban and rural areas.
The objectives of this Land R-,gistration and Titling Study are to evaluate actual procedures and
effects of individual tling of family subsector (customary tenure) land. This study will make specific
policy recommendations and guidelines on changes to land laws and associated legislation pertaining to
land policy on family subsector land, and on changes in land registration legislation and registration



102 -
Annex 5
Page 24 of 26
procedures. It will also design a program for assisting DINAGECA and other government agencies with
implementing land legislation and titling procedures, including registration and titling of family subsector
land.
Main Conuonents
An evaluation of registration and titling would be carried out through two means: a comparative
study of titled and untitled family subsector lands in Mozambique, and a workshop to review past
experiences on titling family subsector land (customary tenure land) in Sub-Saharan Africa and review
the comparative study results.
A survey, applied to a random sample of households in the project area, undertaken within this
component will identif- households in the family subsector that have individual title to land. An in-depth
comparative study of a sub-sample of these households aid a comparable number of households working
untitled land (control group) would consider the effects of individual titling on: (1) access to land and
security of tenure for different members of the household and community; (2) land use and productivity;
(3) constraints to r, -duction; (4) access to credit, and factor and product markets; and (5) land
conservation practices. Besides studying these effects, the comparative study would also consider how
land was acquired, how and why the land was titled, household income, and registration of subsequent
transactions of titled land.
Subsequently, a five-day workshop would be organized to review the literature and experiences
in titling of several other Sub-Saharan countries and to evaluate the results of the Mozambique
comparative study. The workshop would be attended by those persons involved in the above study,
representatives from relevant government agencies (such as DINAGECA and MOA), professionals from
Eduardo Mondlane University, and representatives from several sub-Saharan countries, such as Kenya
and Botswana, that have undertaken and evaluated their titling programs.
Organizatin.-Staffing and Time Schedule
The comparative study of titled and untitled lands would be carried out once the survey of
households in the two northern provinces has identified a sufficient number of households in the family
subsector that have titled land. This study would take approximately a month to design and plan, a month
for data collection, a month for processing and analysis, and a final month for report preparation. The
five-day workshop would take place once the analysis and results of the comparative study were ready.
This could occur towards the middle of the project. Tentative staffing and preparation costs are provided:
Estimated
Sfflng                                          Person/Months
Sociologist (team leader, EP)                              4
Research Assistant                                         3
Titling Specialist (EP)                                     1
Land Law Specialist (EP)                                    1
Data Processor                                              1
Workshop Organizer                                          1
TOTAL                                                      I 1



- 103 -
Annex 5
Page 25 of 26
Coal.Estimates                                     USD'
International & Local Staff                               80
Travel & Per Diem for 20 Mozambican &
S international participants                       24
Workshop Locale & Supplies                                 2
Duplication, Commurications                                3
Secretarial & Administrative Support                       1
TOTAL                                                    110
7. £otton and Food Crops Marketing and Processing Study
ITe main objective of the study would be to carry out an assessment of the productivity and costs of the
marketing and processing of cotton and food crops produced in the project area consisting of:
1.    Interviews with farmers and enquadradores to obtain accurate information on the
promotion (fomento), grading, marketing and transportation procedures for cotton, maize,
beans and cassava.
2.    Interviews with and review of AGRICOM records, as well as interviews with private
food crop wholesalers in the project area to accurately describe and estimate costs of
marketing, transportation and processing of maize, beans and cassava.
3.    Review of JVC records regarding promotion, marketing, transportation, processing and
international shipping costs, broken down into fixed and variable (according to volume
of business) costs.
4.    Review of the variation in world cotton prices according to commercial grading
classifications and their correspondence to Mozambique fiber grades.
5.    Based on the information collected, preparation of alternative proposals for farm (national
and regional) and FOB pricing formulas for seed cotton, inputs and services, in which
there is basis for agreement on costs, revenues and target return to capital (taking into
account level of risk).
6.    Examine the adequacy of existing cotton fiber grading system; evaluation and proposal
of improvements in the seed cotton grading system and its correspondence to cotton fiber
and cottonseed grades.
7.    Review the role of the SEA, the JVCs and future institutions in cotton grading. Plan for
the improvement in the capacity to provide grading laboratory services. Identify the
need for additional staffing, training and laboratory equipment in the project area.



- 104 -
AMngX 5
Page 26 of 26
8.    Estimate a cotton supply function or otherwise estimate the impact of likely cotton export
taxes or retainages upon farm income.
9.    Based on the information collected, design a private food crop marketing system and
support mechanisms to assure its efficiency in the medium term.
10.   Given related work done by the Ministry of Agriculture and USAID prior to the study,
design the coordination of marketing with extension, including price dissemination and
market news.
QAgan=jME an
The study will be carried out by the UDA, with assistance from expatriate consultants hired for
this study and to provide other technical assistance to the UDA: agricultural pricing policy and marketing
specialist; senior agridcultural economist; agro-industry and cotton grading specialist. Total incremental
costs are esimated at about USD 75,000.



Annex 5
Appendix 1
Long-term1 ExUatiate Consultan
AB8;Pent                 Duration                         Months m Project Year                           Recruittneal Method        Poion's Main
(Moutha)  L'cetion
Year 1         Year 2          Yar 3          Year 4           Fnm          Individual
A. Exmo Ik SfL=&3
Speciall                            is             6               9               -              -               -              X         Nampla
B. fl-
catton lgeft  Spocwi               30              6               12              6              6              X                -        Nampula
Fwnnig Systm  Specialist           30              6               12              6              6              X               -         Nampula
C. Law jf
IdTeameSpeciallst                  12              5               5               2              -               -              X         Meputo
Pedologist                         21               -              9              12              -              X               -         Namtpula
D. water 5MI
Technicd Adviser                   30              6               12              6              6              X               -         Mapto/Nampula
Water SupplyAdviser                30              6               12              6              6              X               -         Neula
E. Pmie¢t    L*                                                                                                                                                                u
mnve_wmS -ci"                      20              6               6               4              4              X                         Maputo
F. monitsian & EVPalua
mmB Specalist                      30              6               12             12              -              X                         Maputo
11   ef  on yen



- 107 -
Annex6
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Arrangements for the Line of Credit
A. Participation Agreement
1.01         Participation Agreements between BM/Central and the Participating Financial Institutions
(PFI) would, inter alia, specify that PFIs should:
(a)    designate qualified staff, including an adequate number of credit technicians, to manage
the sub-loans financed by the project and to provide assistance and guidance to credit
groups comprising small-scale producers in the family subsector;
(b)   perform sub-project appraisals in accordance with procedures prescribed in lending
manuals and submit appraisal reports and other required documentation to BM/Central
and IDA, as stipulated in the Credit Agreement;
(c)   ensure that sub-loan funds are used by sub-project beneficiaries for the purposes intended
and that procurement procedures, acceptable to IDA, are followed;
(d)   supervise sub-projects according to established procedures, maintain adequate accounts
and records and provide periodic reports on the status of sub-projects and sub-loans;
(e)   assume the lending risk and adhere to terms of lending and repayment of loans; and
(i)   provide BM/Central, MOA and IDA with such information as they may reasonably
request.
B.     ment of Funds Borrowed frQm the Line of Credit
2.02         Funds from the line of credit, onlent by BM/Central to PFIs for financing sub-loans for
seasonal working capital and investments, would be repaid by PFIs to BM/Central on repayment dates
established in the individual sub-loan agreements, together with 68% of the accrued interest on subloans
made to traders, or of the fixed finance charges levied on sub-loans to credit groups. The spread for
PFIs, equivalent to 32% of the accrued interest or finance charges, has been set provisionally, given the
lack of experience with this type of lending operations, and woud be reviewed annually, taidng into
account that seasonal credit would, on average, be repayable nine months after disbursement, and that
the spread for PTh should reflect the relatively high administrative costs and the lending risks borne by
the PMs.



- 108 -
Ann-ex -6
Page 2 of 2
2.03         Funds for seasonal credit, repaid by PFIs to BM/Central, would be kept by BM/Central
in a separate revolving fund account and utilized annually for refinancing sub-loans for seasonal working
capital, made by PFIs to project beneficiaries.
2.04         BM/Central would reimburse to the Government the amount of interest or finance charges
collected from PFIs on seasonal credit, less BM/Central's fee of 0.5% of the total outstanding amount
of sub-loans including the balance in the revolving fund account.
2.05         Funds provided under the line of credit for financing investments by BPD in vehicles,
motorcycles, office equipment, etc., and incremental administrative expenditures in respect of group
credit organization and administration during the first five years of project implementation, would be
onlent, in Meticais, by BM/Central to BPD. Given the fact that under this project small scale producers
in the family subsector will, for the first time, be given access to credit from financial institutions, group
formation and lending will proceed slowly and cautiously in the initial period, until the appropriate
approach and arrangements for this type of lending operations have been established and tested. During
the initial period, the projected small volume of lending would not generate sufficient income to cover
the cost of funds, administration and the lending risks. Therefore, investments costs and incremental
current expenditures, incurred by BPD specifically for group lending operations and financed under the
project, would be capitalized and repaid by BPD to BM/Central, on terms and conditions to be agreed
between the Government and BPD, in consultation with IDA, no later than ninety days before the expiry
of the five-year period mentioned above.



Annex 7
Tabie 1
Agricutltural Services Rehabilitation end Development Project
Project Component Costs by year
Totals excluding Contingencies
(MT milions)
.  ____.. ._. ... ........... ............................................................................................................................. .... .... .......... .................... ..
Project C    Q                               1         2         3         4         5        6         7         8   total    XFX    FX
.......................... .......................................................... _............... ................................ .......................................................
Extension                                  892      1725      1976      2523      1937      1841      1759     1651   14305       29   4120
Research                                   724      1805      1176       950       527      500       316       191    6188       69X  4287
Credit
Operations                               132       120       189       218       264       231      252       245    1651       46Z   762
Line-of-Credit                                      85       517      1165      1891     2157      1931      1604    9351      1001  9351
Beneficiaries participation                          9        71       176       305      411       501       674    2147
Rural Vater Supply                         778      1306       805       u8        641      599       409               5406      79X  4294
Land Use  _nwmgemt                        1247      1178       335       217       226                                  3203      551   1747
Institutionat Support                     3140      1229       934       739      443       398       251       470    7603       74b  5608
Taxes: International Consultants           655       m         305       277        70       82        33        29    2224
BASELINE COST                             7568      8237      6309      7133      6306     6219      5450      4865    52083      58%  30168
Physical Contingency                  175       282       194       179       149      126       126       103    1335       481   640
Price Contineency                     981       769      2445      4182      4797     5919      5868      7048   32014       552  17765
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        8724      9288      8948    11494      11252    12264     11444    12016   65432        57X  48573
(SO mi0liono)
Project Component                             1        2         3        4         5        6         7         8  Total   tFX          Fl
Extension                                 0.62      1.19     1.36      1.74     1.34      1.27      1.21     1.14      9.87    29g    2.04
Research                                  0.50     1.24      0.91    0.65       0.36      0.34     0.22      0.13      4.27    69%   2.96
Credit
operations                              0.09    0.08       0.13     0.15      0.18     0.16      0.17      0.17      1.14    46%   0.53
Line-of-Credit                                   0.06      0.36     0.80      1.30     1.49      1.33      1.11     6.45   100%    6.45
Beneficiaries participation                      0.01      0.05     0.12      0.21     0.28      0.35      0.47     1.48
Land Use 6 8Ianagemnt                     0.54     0.90      0.55      0.60     0.44      0.41     0.28                3.73    79%    2.96
Rural water Supply                        0.86     0.81      0.23      0.15     0.16                                   2.21    55%    1.20
instltutional Support                     2.16     0.85      0.64     0.51      0.31     0.27      0.17      0.32      5.25   74%    3.86
Taxes: International Consultants   0.45            0.33      0.21      0.19    0.05       0.06     0.02      0.02      1.53
BASELINE COST                             5.22     5.68      4.35      4.92     4.35      4.29     3.76      3.36   35.92    58t  20.80
Physical Contingency         0.12     0.19      0.13     0.12      0.10     0.09      0.09      0.07     0.92    48%   0.44
Price Contingency        0.19     0.39      0.36    0.43       0.52      0.67     0.66      0.61      3.80    94%   3.59
TOTAL COST                                5.53      6.25     4.84      5.47     4.97      5.04     4.50      4.03    40.64    61%  24.82
02-Oct-91  21:30



Nozambique                                                Annex 7
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project                            Table 1-1
Project Component Costs by year
Totals including Contingencies
(NT millions)
Project Coaponent                             1        2         3         4         5         6         7         8   Total
Extension                                  1030      2143     2954      4399      3676      3917      4016      4007   26142
Research                                   816       2231     1762      1725      1077      1167       770       479   10027
Credit
Operations                                148       147      283       389       529       512       604       635    3245
Line-of-Credit                                      100      728      1886      3367      4223      3969      3506    17778
Beneficiaries participation                         11       101       282       543       806      1030      1474    4246
Rural hater Supply                        1462       1491      510       376       423                                   4262
Lend Use2 ManbffguuKz2t                   1104       833       806       707       606       574       415       557    5603
Institutional Support                     3442      1508      1399      1355       907       905       586      1296    11399
Taxes: International Consultants           721       825       406       374       125       160        54        64    2729
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        8723      9289      8949     11493     11253    12264      11444     12018   85431
(USD millions)rrf
Project Component                             1        2         3         4         5         6         7         8   Total
.....--.....-  ............-..--------.--.-.---- .. ----.-..-.-.-.-.-.....-.-... -.---......--..------ ---.....    .-------------c
Extension                                 0.67       1.32     1.51      1.87      1.43      1.38      1.35      1.27   10.81
Research                                  0.53       1.37     0.90      0.73      0.42      0.41      0.26      0.15    4.77
Credit
Operations                              0.10      0.09      0.14      0.17      0.20      0.18      0.20      0.20     1.28
Line-of-Credit                                    0.06      0.40      0.93      1.58      1.87      1.75      1.52    8.11
Beneficiaries participation                       0.01      0.05      0.12      0.21      0.28      0.35      0.47     1.49
Rural hater Supply                        0.58       1.01     0.64      0.71      0.54      0.52      0.37               4.37
Land Use Management                       0.95      0.91      0.26      0.17      0.17                                   2.46
Institutional Support                     2.24      0.93      0.72      0.58      0.36      0.33      0.21      0.41    5.78
Taxes: International Consultants          0.46      0.56      0.22      0.19      0.05      0.06      0.02      0.02     1.58
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        5.53      6.27      4.85      5.47      4.96      5.03      4.51      4.04   40.65
-   .....--....-...   ----..-----   ....-  .-....-...   ---..----....-...   ..---..-----.........-......-..-....-..----....



Aex 7
VIcltura1 Seil         Rrd$ice  i8tlDti   ad e e  e1  t ftolact
Ca11gnsr lw         199   1992   1993   1994  1995   1"6   1997   190   1999   2000
ftject ewr             0      1      2      3       4      5      6      7      B      9
USD:
MV   dl, elb  4109             5.0%   1.6%   1.9%   3.9%   4.9%   4.2%   3.6%   4.6%   4.4%   4.4%
ftles gUotingeagy £ectr                1.0594 1.0791 1.1104 1.1594 1.2121 1.2593  1.311   1.37 1.4303
Neticala: lo3
W Avg. Dstlater                    3.4%   2.5%  14.7%  12.4%  10.2%  10.1%  10.1%  10.0%  10.0%  10.0%
ftAce C=tfimj"Cr fador                  .0469 1.1377 1.2911 1.4362 1.5819 1.7416 1.9166 2.1064 2.3192
AVg.          Ra Pte  (IIeS       1450   1537   1629  1955  2346  2561   2B39  2981   3169   3368
fltical in  DllIar Ieam
tice CiUt      _ fector f*1            1.0164 1.0422 1.44  0.9OW  0.9311 0.9319 0.9551 0."42 1.0289
ftice Ceti        factor aplied  IN)   1.0164 1.022 1.0447  .00 1.0000 1.0600 1.,000 1.00 1.0289
E IiiM pojeCtI, San  ftn, Oeratim1l Direatve 6.50,
_8MMM         3 d  01, MT, 1991
(*et)    Saticals  Price  Cuti:egmm       fact¢  aor stfr ezdange rate
dM=
49)       U,eem the Price  autingaicy factor I 6 1, I  as         to prevent
ineucing 1oa Csts in eazl team
02-ft-91  10:45



Annex 7
Table 3
Mozasbiquo
Agricultural Services Rebabilitation and Development Project
Fars Moel 1: SRary Benefits
A: Full Developmet Benfits
Financial Prices      Economic
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - Valuation:
Unit      Model  Official  Border    Border
NET BBNEFITS (exel. eo  labor)
witbout                 USD        8152      8149    8211        3236
with                    USW         8233     8215     3304       3348
incremena               USD         881      36        393       8112
NET BENFITS (idel. mwn labor)
wltbout                US.          3         so       so         so
with                    USD          84      (310)    (816)       (89)
ncroemtal               U6D          84      (al)    (n16)       (89)
RE1S To 1am LAME
without              MT/m.day     1,668    1.632    2,38        2,68.
with                 MT/.day    ,I689    1,661    2,298         2,520
incremetla           MT/m-day        29       (71)   (168)        (64)
a om labor valud at %itboet  returns to labor.
B: Beefits bild-up
Yaer        1         2        3        4           6       so
Incremetal Not Beneits: 
FinaCiaSl (end. eow  labor cost)
MoIel                     329       332       851      381        S81      381
Official                  817       326       842      388        366      36
Border                    323        337      868      893        393      393
Ece  4i c (miel. own labor)       (32)       (34)     (38)     (89)       (89)      (89)
C: Number of BeneficIries
Projecty er:                1         2         3        4          6        6        7         8
Number - total           8729     23657    62264    83060       96938   104748   165558   104506
- incrementl      872a     14928    28697    30797       14978     6710      o9n   -1952



Annex 7
Table 4
Mozeabiq
Agricultural Services Reabailitation and Devolopmnt Project
Fare Iodel 2: Suary Beoefits
Fiaoncial Prices        Econoeic
_ - - - - - - - - - - - - - Valuation:
Unit      Model Official   Border    Border
NET BEMEFITS (sod. em labor)
*itBt                   tlSD     8319      8170     8258       3283
with                    U6D       3491     848      6699       8784
Imerematal              UD        831      g6       3449       85l
NT B FITS (lmi. ce labor).
without                 116         as       so       66         to
with                    1160      8422    836       3829       a681
imermut                 USD       8422    s86       8829       8a6l
without              Mi/m.day    1,3'3    1,166    1,716      1,941
wIth                 MT/.day    9,204    3,1416   13,689     14,690
incroeatal           MT/e.day    7,961    7,001   11,874     12,749
* ow  labo  waled at %wtboet  rettres to labor.
9:  enfits build-up
Vear        1        2        a        4          6       6.
Icre_etel NMt Benefits:
Finactal (exnl. au labor cost)
model                     on       883     811i5    818        8219    8301
Official                   u       873    M811      8149       8193    826
1ord                      8o      8124     8171     86         8326     8449
Ecoomic (inel. we labor)          81s6     38       8269     85         3493     86081
C: Nuer of B.ueficlariee
Project yer:                1        2        a        4          s        a        7        8
ter - total                 0     1681    4634    12796       22864    29636    a2633    32836
- lncremntal               1do1     344      85        10i       6231     29        892



Aanon 7
Table 6
Mozamblquo
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Dovlopewnt Project
Farm Model 3: Stary Benefits
Financial Prices        Economic
_ - - - - - - - - - - - - - Valuation:
Model  Official  Bordor    Border
@ET   NFIS (encl. OIJ labor)
without             USO       8264     8233     8317        8362
eP11*^              13         Q11US8 11   81,269         81,463
1ioresantal         US9       8629     8048     8842      81,991
NET BEFITS (ladl. own labor)e
eltlot              USIA       §8        89        §          80
eitb                USA       8648     8648   81,623      81,667
IlcroemStl          US        8048            81,023      31,'87
RE1UMS TO QM G
elt&out        MT/1.day    I303    1,166    1,716         2,138
mit           MT/m.day      4,888    4,D      6960        8,048
InCremol    Mm.day           3,585    aDna i3,723-  6258 6,8
coa   labr valued at  mitboot  reteurn  to labor
B:  BeefIts build-up
year                       1        2        3           4        6       Go
Ineremetal t et       its:
FInancial (exlc. ova labor coat)
M1Dl                           894     9162     8244        8392     8629     8629
Off IcIa                       S97     8167     8252        8404      649     8649
Border                        s141      227    8a6          8586     8942     8942
Economic (ie. own labor)               8188     §257      8413       n4   81,067   81,067
C: Hokeor of Bseiciarees
Project Year:                    1        2        a           4        6        a         7        8
- - ---   - -- ---   - - - - -  --    -    - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---
Number - total                   a        e      126         360      70e     1350      1760     2006
- lncr_wntal                                     126         226      365      66S      406       260



Annex 7
Table a
Mozambi quo
Agricuiltural Services Rehabilitation and Dovelopent Project
Financial Benefit/Cost Analysis
Internal Rate of Return
(1991 Constant US8 millions)
at ncremetal Bonefits (o)           TOTAL      Loss:  Net Benefits Strem
ProjectB- - - - - - - --    - - - - -               Project              1 Year
Year Farm 1 Fare 2 Farm S Tr8dtre(ee)  Strew   Costs (see)  Basic    Slip
1   6.19   6.66   6.6         6.66       0.18      5.36      -6.13    -5.39
2   0.31   6.67   6.6         6.66       6.88      6.64      -6.48   -5.66
8   1.51   6.W    6.61        6.62       1.84      4.49      -2.56    -4.03
4   8.62   0.91   6.e4        0..4       4.62      4.91      -6.89    -3.07
6   4.69   1.86   6.11        0.66       6.71      4.23       2.48   -9.21
6   6.46   2.94   6.24        '.68       9.71      4.69       6.62    2.82
7   7.76   4.24   6.43        6.10      12.652     8.9        9.02    6.21
8   8.26    6.77   0.66       0.16      14.84      2.96      11.88     9.56
9   8.46    7.44   6.91       0.16      16.98      1.96      15.88   12.94
a6   8.66   8.80   1.18        6.16      18.63      1.96      16.73   16.68
II   8.66   9.54    1.32       9.16      19.61      1.85      17.66   16.78
12   8.66   9.68   1.89        6.16      19.87      1.81      18.16    17.76
18   8.65    9.86    1.89      6.16      19.93      1.76      18.17    18.11
14   8.60   9.96   1.39        0.16      19.93      1.72      18.22   18.22
5   8.Me   9.9    1.39         0.16      19.93      1.67      18.26   18.26
l6   8.51   9.86   1.39        0.16      19.93      1.63      18.36   18.30
17   8.56    9.86    1.39      6.15      19.93      1.69      18.34   18.34
18   8.60   9.98    1.89       0.16      19.93      1.65      18.38   18.38
19   8.60   9.9e   1.39        e.15      19.93      1.61      18.42   18.42
26   8.59   9.96   1.89        0.15      19.83      1.48      18.46   18.46
21   9.59   9.98   1.39        6.15      19.93      1.44      18.W0   18.6S
22   9.56    9.98   1.39       6.16      19.93      1.40      18.63   18.63
23   8.66   9.86    1.89       0.16      19.93      1.37      18.67   18.67
24   8.50   9.98    1.a8       0.16      19.93      1.33      18."    18."
26   9.56    9.86   1.89       0.16      19.93      1.38      18.63    18.63
ERR £:      34.9%   28.3%
(a) excluding interest payments on farm credits
(es) working capital to local traders, etc.
(aeo) including Investment in Line of Creditt and Physical Contingencies



Axneg3 7
Table 7
Agricultsral Services Rtdebllitetion end Developmnt Project
Internal Rate of Return - Sesitivity Anelyais
Bses case - m:                              831
1 yer beefite slip:                     28%
Sait.ivlty to Pricing Policy:
Presest Official Price eqIv.            881
R_c        IFarugte Border Prices       4iX7
Sensitivity Teste:          Bae  Case:
X Chang  from Base Case:             81    -2"       211
Production factor,
Cotton Price                    37      34S      41s
Cotton Yield                    371     3        411
1Mize Price                     837     341      411
Feed crop Yields                3755    22X      6so
Implemntation factors
Project coest                   3       411       N
lubr of participants            87a     29s     4e
16-Jun-91 109:31



- 117 -
Annex 7
Table 6
Mozamblque
Agricultural Serviceg Rohabilitation and Development Projec
Foreign E=hanve Standard Conversion Factor
-- - - - ---  ---- -- -- -- --     ---  -- -
USD/SIT ExChange Rate
Year    Official  Parallel       SCF $
may 1991        1375      1850      1.345
Prjecated averpgens
1991      14d5       1958     1.350
1992      1537       2037     1.325
1993      1629       21151    1.300
1994      1955       2493     1.275
1g95      2346       2933     1.250
1996      2581       3162     1o225
1997      2839       3407     1.200
1996      2961       3503      1.175
1999      3169       3644     1.150
2000      3366       4210      1.250
2001      3591       3950     1.100
2002      3826       42 11    1.100
3003      4080       4488      1.100
2004      4350       4785.   1.100
2005      4642       5106      1.100
Aveage 1991   2005                  1.200
390=e  ;rIL san  adeLS3181   1 estimtes8
02-O8t-91
09:41



Annex 7
Table 9
Aozssbi que
Agricultural Services Rehabilitotion and Development Project
Fare Models: Financial and Econoeic Price Projections
________________________________ --------------------------------------------------
I  13t;  I    Financial               Economic
Unit I OffticiaIOfficial(o)  Border   Official(o)  Border
Seed Cotton let grade   MT/khg    820   5    864       492         426      690
2nd grade   MT/kgl  128   1    142         844         170      413
Averageeee) MT/kgl  291   1    822         447         887      637
Maize                  MT/kB   1's0   1    248         8           277      400                                  o
I         II
Sean  (avg.)            MT/kgl  85           865       855         426      426
Cotton Seed             T/lw   290           R 138     192         166      230
Maize Seed              HT/kgl   19a m       248       we          277      400
Bean Seed               MT/kl   866   1    856         866         428      426
(e) Based on relationship of current official price to 1991 international
price fempte equi., adjusted fOr long teOm international price projections
(co) Average min let:2nd grade -   Current Otffcial 8615:165
Future Border   76:81:



Annex 7
Table 16
Mozambique
Agriculteral Services Rehabilitation and  Dovelopant Project
Economic  wastit/Coat Analycis
(le91 Constant USS millions)
----------------------------------------______---------_----____-______________________________--
Mot Znecrtstl 13c aenefits'                  TAL6       Less:     net Benefits Stream
Pwoject  - -                             ---  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---    smBnefit    Project  Base    I Year
year    mEodel 1   DSodsl 2    Kodol 3   Traders    Streas       Coats'      Case  Benefits Slip
1      -0.04                                        -0.04       5.82      -5.86   -5.82
2      -0.06       0.15                   0.02       0.11       6.24      -6.13  -6.28
3      -0.33       0.61       0.02        0.04       0.a0       4.86      -4.45   -4.75
4      -0.66       2.05       0.01        0.06       1.52       5.44      -3.92   -5.04
5      -1.02       4.20        0.17       0.08       3.42       4.76      -1.34   -3.24
6      -1.41       6.64        0.31       0.10       5.70       4.54        1.16   -1.12
7      -1.69       9.57        0.66.      0.15       8.68       3.87        4.82    1.83
a      -1.80      13.03        a.02       0.20      12.40       3.24        9.20    5.44
9      -1.85      16.80        1.41       0.20      16.56       2.09      14.47   10.35
10      -1.85      19.87        1.1       0.20      20.03       2.09      17.94   14.47
in      -1.85      21.53       2.03        0.20      21.91       2.04       19.87   17.99
12      -1.85      22.20        2.13       0.20      22.68       1.99      20.69   19.92
13      -1.81      22.35       2.13        0.20      22.83       1.94      20.89   20.74
1R      -1.85      22.35        2.13       0.20      22.83       1.89      20.94   20.94
15      -1.85      22.35       2.13        0.20      22.03       1.84      20.99   20.99
16      -1.8es     22.35       2.13        0.20      22.83       1.80      21.03   21.03
17      -1.85      22.35       2.13        0.20      22.83       1.75      21.08   21.08
18      -1.8S      22.35       2.13        0.20      22.83       1.71      21.12   21.12
19      -1.85      22.35       2.13        0.20      22.83       1.66      21.16   21.16
20      -1.85      22.35        2.13       0.20      22.83       1.62       21.20   21.20
21      -1.85      22.35        2.13       0.20      22.83       1.58       21.25   21.25
22      -1.85      22.35       2.13        0.20      22.83       1.54      21.28   21.28
23      -1.85      22.35        2.13       0.20      22.83       1.50      21.32   21.32
24      -1.85      22.35        2.13       0.20      22.83       1.47      21.36   21.36
25      -1.05      22.35        2.13       0.20      22.83       1.43      21.40   21.40
.gRR %:      27.2%   23.3%
I     Production inputs uith SCF 1.20: produce farm gate border price valued with SCF$ (Table 8);
farm.zae without project production alternative
2     3Poreign Exchange portion valued with SCF$.                                                 03-Oct 08:16



Annex 7
Table 11
Mozambi que
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
Economic Rate of Return: Sensitivity Analysis
Base case                                         27x
1 year benofits slip                              23X
Current Official Cotton price --
economic price equivalent           231
Sensitivity Tests:
I change from base case        0e       -201      20S
Production factors
Cotton VaIue                 271      24%       301
Cotton Yield                 271      261       28X
Maise Value                  27S      26%       29S
Food crop Yields             271      111       371
ap leentation factors
Project Costs                271      321       24Y
Number of Participants       271      231       alx



Annex 7
Table 12
Mozambique
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
Project Cost: Econcic Value
CUSS millions)
- 19t1  1992  1908  1994  1995  199   1997  1999  1999
(Constant1991 us )              6      a     2      a     4      6     6      I      8
USELI£ COST                         6.19  6.95  4.82  4.91  4.84  4.29  3.78  3.35
Physical Contianeclee               6.12  6.19  0.18  e.12  e.10  9.69  6.99  6.97
LESS:                               6.99  6.09   6.6   6.0.   9.06  9.66  6."   0.oe
Bewnicarlaso participation          (2.60  (6.01) (0.65) (0.12) (6.21) (0.29) (86.5) (0.47)
SE FDKAL COST              5.3   6.84  4.40  4.91  4.23  4.09  8.56   2.96
0.66  6.06   .6  0.66  9.66  6.66  0.66  6.66
LESS:                               0.66  6.66   .66  6.6S   6.06  0.06   .66  o.6
Toes: International TA()           (6.46) (.58) (0.21) (0.19) (0.06) (0.06) (0.62) (60.2)
Coetruftile(es)             (-6"6) (6-.7) (6.64) (6.61) (0.66) (2.00) (2.06) (2.00)
TAX FREE COST              4.82  5.24   4.10  4.2   4.18  4.038  3.48  2.94
0.o6  6.6   6.6   6.es  e.e o  6.66  0.00  6.oe
Foreign Exchane Portion             8.65  8.34  2.55  2.99  2.67  2.53  2.22   1.98
63    64N5  615   02    615   635   64X   875
S:CS   1.456  1.850 a.36e 1.276 1.260 1.226 1.296 1.176  1.1569
FX Econmic Praim                    1.67  1.66  0.70  6.78  6.59  6.51  6.89  a."
ECONMIC BASE COST                   5.88  6.24  4.80  5.44  4.78  4.54  8.87   8.24
(s) Including Physical Continencies
Ce.) Estimated at Us  of total Hou"sing and Other Bilding construction cost, including Physical Contingencies



MOZA11B81p)E                                               Annox 7
ACRICULTURAL SERVICES REhIADILITATIORN AND DEVELOPMIT PROJECT                         Table 13
Page 1 oO 2
A. POATION A FAO  INGOUSE          S £BY DISTRICT
TOTAL    FARMhIN  IMPLEMETATION
DISTRICT      B E          P TIOI HOUSEHODS
1990
MOIAO                          261862       43644          1
RED         NAIA                12461       alws           2
S~A CA                         2fU          41195          a
EahW 1496116                                2486
NAMM     CM  DELO           l7612         MalS         J
NKCATE      NM "nx    1 1"9                               4
IMA         UmPUA              14@018S      24             4
ANCUAK      CABO DEWM           s66         11W            4
oun         CM  BELOADO   l124294           20716          4
TOTAL                         16721        2782
B. MUM       OF SU S ASSISTED BY EXTENfION SERVICE
YEAR       VW          EA    YEAR     YEAR      YEAR     YEAR      YEAR
1          2         8       4        6         0        7         8
LePO                             8729       15275     196    21922    21822    21822    21822    21822
R1aE                                         4167      7274   9362    10391    10391    10391    10391
MONTEPAZ                                     5818      98   11962    13291    18291    13291    13291
NAMAPA                                                 085  16738    21619    23900   23911    23990
MECURMI                                                3637   6365      8183      8692     8092     992
NABG                                                   5837  10216    13184    14694    14594    14694
BALAMA                                                 1672   2926      8781      4179     4179     4179
ERATI                                                          3114     6274     6780      7534     7634
IECATE                                                         2390     4183    6578       6976     6976
momA                                                           4961     8681    11161    12402    12402
ANCABE                                                         2322     40863    6224      6804     6804
C111E                                                         4148      7269     9822    16368    10358
TOTAL                            8729       24748     56923  96299   121643   136184   139341   139341



Annex 7
Table 13
Pege 2 of 2
C. N   ER OF HlEfSS ASSISTED BY CREDIT
VWA        YEAR        YEAR      YEAR   YEAR      YEAR      YEAR     YEAR
1          2           8         4       6        6         7        a
MOAPO                   -         212         8019      4918   6466     5455      5645     5645
RIM                                          183        1818   2338     2698      2593     2698
MONTEPUEZ                                    1829       2326   2998     3323      3323     3323
NAMAPA                                                  23     4183     5378      5976     6976
ECUBUI                                                   99   15691     2946      2273     2273
MIMUN                                                   1469   2664      284      3648     348
BALAMA                                                   418    781      946      1846     16
ElIn                                                            763    1ale       1695      1833
MUECATE                                                         698     146       1344     1494
MEA                                                            1246     2178      2796     31i
ANOMIE                                                          681     le1      16       1461
C£1                                                            186      le3      2s81     2659
QUIn  TOTAL             -        21          6187      14231  24858              33783    3485M
I-
l%



S9 0 se,*  *t-O            :Ma12  5fii                    .g.9 M s auj-'
WI ia-p ia-@                 %-~fD o.m K-
D-r uG   u-St  -ist as-p  earn  ro   t         we   r g'Was "t W-r Us  eaRn esr   - av r , 9          ag-  a gS-e 9  v w    -s a& 
151  r          -a      01g 0' 10  **G is.  a USa &'Ir E,9  6' U,91 6    a.% so-O         t 1a t-t S Sg-i Oe *  rl a t g U-( a i cr  V
St WM IMpol aa
O'D ablo MOV  W-o ' 0-40  0 ow>0 M   Q  °b@ 0'a 6'° K'G GI    N' Ug         '0i  'C "'tt0 W'@  se1 go-O 620 Ge                 (G) tS
sa-,.   ga-i   -          ia-a Sv t   69   a-s t-I Wt     i  %I $-s 0s  u-s n's  ira  ?e  291 gaa-  m-s we'  r  es  I=
6-9 e'- 9aS2'9 Gw    W    ar'  i0 S F' S 'SI f96  41L  Ml U' 5la'  Giol's    D  UVe  w    SG,& o- irs        9 SwE'    9 s19 Fiaun-
Mw -8          i          n¢i I-8  Q-2 Kv U*i Wi U. 66  WI O1 I  WI 681 Ie 5 W rs tea  Go, jra  6V6 irS  irS U6               (raj 6qg
9ra   -,q iSS WV Gi'S  661 0   91 661 EW    UV Wses WI 31  aq  we  aSr   G' St-a eW                   i    wI    e wV %V 98s (..) aesw
.3 BD Co1i i
@s191   E@l  El 66  iS  ElE      I~9~  ~
UV Ole als l1 1s                                     M
cq         ov UV  -o s  a9'  us9 u ;' tXRs9 13   l07V IPo W*l %V- Q*V  XD'   W     'O&     D-0Q  S3Ga@@'s           Sk-Qtd  4904*  WaRp o 
gol W's %T  421. X7  al  alliovl'  mssae443U     at'     ia-8 tWV of- er   o-o 9WV 09 Is's                               PUW  v
NQ  1S1 £95 ire    We  era .r  ir sw  ass es ire ira es-s as-a asw             ~       u-a we   ere s's        *.g  se'  %V
e-,.,-*13            t411   wiu26l           u    *UtlSI-S J'0m    t9-6m    w                         s-0B9  nOs '   we   s                   a      P
115 60B llSa1le a's   Vgo 'g a' eazo GM PM
eu-s ia-a P1  ire Ga-e, 9t~~~~~~~ 6I~  irS  irO  ta.g 91   ill P51 SF5 CIq are  ra   we  ira ire  El SE@ &3r"-a OBO 1t5 IS 1s11rl-uB3
UVan ina l *V Or 
9@O    W 6, u.  a  we@  S' Ur-                 sra s 3
tI V  ae "  i6s-aG WoA  le Ela
ias SU i-s    sia    UV U a-s  u- -   a-s UV a    IR- ea-s  Ga6 6F  @    Sam Gea           W    a-0         g 51   -  mG.
as go   Gov  a'-s eGe   a'scr  Dv- tole irte si-s as-S rn-s Salo go.   W.=  We is.au-o     o      V&D    VGo          eO
W's UV Us U.' EV lrs UU6  Gil W  av Ue iS WV 09 we ia XN                                                                         ^
U-I es-a El sri 61   El  Ul El a' 611  WI ae   WI  ro, woo wI' 9WI0  ni   10s 1 W, are on  WI Br     =e ____
*   us  e   a    as   e   em  rn  as s assalam                   ea  is  Ga   a         a       S   I    a          U    I
;(useetcs;Pm~~ I_ M
am   Z   B   a q e            U   S3   U   93   B       aa  61 I tBG6
O                                                                     mqI^
* _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al=



AGRICIATURAL SERVICES REHROIL [TATION
a OEVELOMENT PROJECT
llbERNTATION SCMtEDLE
~~~~~~~~~~~I                                          2l9ztc IU loDltlnfs  
a o.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
i U.ErT A NI T C S W  FA
PROVtINCIAL CwR 0 T l
0&6109 Fl       EOCR7          L
STRT lnFLkz~urATIctn DISTRIC
co                                                         e                                 I                       I                      IErewr
PRICE
EpI'   aH1 I"r"aVO"
4ciM~~-0JCOSULNTS                         I    I
INNCL    3                           I. .- I
U'
LIK~~ESEM   R
IT                                                l                                                                                       _  _
at HIRE STAF
t3ENI&FOF 1N FW1RCT
i    m                                   e         _D 
T      R        S     I  T                F FUPPLY PROS
eu LDL   E1-                                                                
13tST EULO V5TEl5 - -  -  - S- -  -  - *- -| - 1'll '  ' '' '' '  -  - '- l- -  - -- '' -  '  ' -- -- '  ' '' '2 '  *  - -- -- l  OD



- 127 -
Anneg 
Page 1 of 3
Mozambigule
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
Supervision Plan
1.         IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities. The staff input indicated in the table below
is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc. (estimated for this project to require four to five staff weeks during the first
three project years, and about three staff weeks per year thereafter).
2.         Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
(a)   Progress Reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i)      in the form to be discussed during the first IDA supervision mission;
(ii)     at the end of March and September of each year; and
(iii)    by UDA in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which will consolidate the
reports prepared by the various institutions participating in the project;
(b)   Project review meetings with the participation of the various Project Participating
Institutions (PPIs) will be held normally in mid-March and mid-September of each year.
The meetings will be chaired by the Vice Minister of Agriculture;
(c)   UDA will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions,
and for providing information required by missions; and
(d)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings normally will be chaired
by the Minister of Agriculture or his representative, with the participation of the Vice
Minister of Agriculture and the Heads of the PPIs.



- 128 -
Ana-
Page 2 of 3
IDA Sunerjsion nput in-to Key Activities
Approximate!'
Dates                                              Expected Skill             Staff Input
(monthlyear')   Activity                              Roeuirements              (staff weeks)
11-12/92        Project Start-Up Mission             Task Manager                  5.0
Procurement, Accounting,
Auditing, Financial Reporting
and Disbursement Specialists
2-3/93          Review of Detailed Plans for         Extension, Research, Credit,    7.0
Agricultural Extension and Research for  and Farmer Organization
Farmer Groups Formation, and Credit   Specialists
Delivery
5-6/93          (a) Assist in Preparation of detailed  Task Manager, Land           8.0
Extension, Research, and Land        Management, Rural Water
Management implementation plans; and   Supply and other Specialists
(b) review Rural Water Supply Studies
and Surveys; and (c) Annual Work
Program
8-9/93          Discuss draft studies and surveys to be    Task Manager and Other   5.0
carried out during the first project year   Specialists
11-12/93        (a) Review of proposed cotton pricing    Task Manager, Management,    8.0
policies; (b) Assessment of extension  Agricultural Pricing, and
plans to be carried out by the selected    Extension Specialists
JVC; and (c) Review of staff detled
training plans
34/94           (a) Review soil conservation guidelines;  Task Manager, Research, Soil   8.0
(b) Review Credit Delivery System and   Conservation, and Water
Farmer Group Formation; and (c)      Supply Specialists
Assist in project launching in Cabo
Delgado Province
6-7/94          Review progress in agricultural services  Task Manager, Agricultural  10.0
dgvelopment                          Services Specialists
9-10/94         Bi-annual Project Progress Review     Task Manager and other        10.0
specialists as needed
1995            Two Supervision Missions, one to     Task Manager and other         16.0
coincide with the preparation of the  specialists as needed
Annual Work Program.



- 129 -
Page 3 of 3
1996            Two Supervision Missions, one to       Task Manager and other         12.0
coincide with the Bi-annual Project   specialists as needed
Progress Review.
1997-2000       Two Supervision Missions each year,    Task Manager and other         10.0
one to coincide with the preparation of   specialists as needed      each year
the Annual Work Program, one in 1998
to assist in the preparation of the TORs
for the project's second development
phase, and another in 2000 to prepare
the PCR.
./ Project supervision missions will be combined with other tasks in Mozambique.



131 -
Amnn IQ
Page 1 of 4
Mozambique
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Develonment Project
Environmental Assessment Survey Summary
Introduction
1.           The proposed project was classified as Category B (according to Bank Directive
4:00), and an in-depth environmental assessment (EA) impact for each of the project components
was carried out by a team consisting of international and national consultants. The team
consulted and coordinated its activities with SEA, DNDR, DAPs in the provinces, INIA and the
National Institute of Physical Planning (INPF). Concerns expressed by NGOs which are active
in the proposed project areas and by affected groups were also addressed and integrated into the
EA process. The assessment concluded that none of the project components could have a
detrimental impact on the environment, and that, on the contrary, the proposed project will have
a number of beneficial effects on the environment and on the nutrition of the area population.
Environmental Assessment Impact of Project Components
2.           Extension. Most of the activities to be undertaken under this component have
either neutral or positive environmental effect. The concern raised by NGOs about JVC's power
in influencing more cotton production by the family subsector at the expense of food crops is
largely addressed by this component, which envisages to integrate food crop production with
cotton. This has not been the case with the previous extension service. The project also aims to
promote linkages between extension and research through involving extension staff in farming
system research and by making researchers familiar with field level problems. Concerted effort
would also be made by extension to extend soil conservation measures, such as improved seed-
bed preparation, green manuring, subsoiling, agro-forestry, contour ploughing and vegetative
strips; and to introduce a sound crop rotation system.
3.           AV2iW R_esr h. Since Independence, there has been little research to improve
the local varieties Albar 637-24 and 637-33, which are the standard varieties used in the family
subsector. These varieties possess good agronomic characteristics, are adapted to adverse
environmental conditions such as inadequate rain or too much heat, and have high resistance to
pests. The major drawback of these local varieties is the low rate of fiber production averaging
about 33%. Under the project cotton varietal and breeder seed development programs, seeds will
be initially imported from other breeding programs with similar agro-eological conditions, with
the objective of selecting and developing new heavy yielding and jassid resistant seed. High
priority will be given to fiber and yarn characteristics to meet the needs of the industry and
ensure high value exports.
4.           During the first project year, a hybridization program will be initiated, and its
aim would be to combine the good genetic qualities of the local varieties with the exotic varieties
ISA 205 and IRMA 1243, imported from the Ivory Coast. Potential environmental risks with



- 132 
Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
hybridization programs include loss of biological diversity, ard the possibility that imported
varieties could reduce or wipe out some of the desired genetic characteristics of local varieties.
A hybridization program involving cotton, however, poses little threat to the biological diversity
of local plants. Maintaining some of the genetic purity of the Albar varieties, particularly
resistance to jassid pests and to adverse climatic conditions is crucial, as losing resistance to
pests, for example, would result in application of more pesticides which is harmful to the
envirounent. Some tests aimed at maintaining the purity of some of the qualities of local
varieties and evaluating exotic varieties have been made in the past, but have been limited
because of lack cf funds. The provision of funds under the research component would enhance
the success of maintaining the desirable characteristics of local varieties and reduce the risks
associated with the new breeding program.
5.            ACronomic and Eaming Sy      Res       Studies to be undertaken under the
project on soil and water conservation, soil fertility and farming systems will have a positive
effect on the environment and will enhance the efforts to attain sustainable economic development
of the family subsector in the project area. The EA also examined the potential positive and
negative impact of establishing a cotton research center in Namialo (Nampula Province), and
concluded that no negative environmental effect is envisaged and that the site of the research
station is most appropriate and ideally placed to carry out the research activities proposed under
the project.
6.           Pest Contl and Managemn t. Cotton is a culture vulnerable to attack by pests
and diseases. It is expected that pesticides will be imported annually and one of the functions of
SEA is to regulate and enforce its rational use by farmers. A decree was enacted in 1987 which
established that all substances with pesticide or regulators of vegetal growth must be registered
in the Department of Vegetal Sanitation of MOA in order to be imported, manufactured and/or
marketed in Mozambique. The decree also established that the toxicity level of the active
ingredient should be indicated for authorization of registration (ingredients with high toxicity level
are subject to be banned); the level of residue left by the product should comply with a desired
safety limit; new substances should be tested for at least one year under normal agriculural
conditions and under the control of the authorities; and all pesticides should have a label
containing information pertaining to their handling and to the necessary measures in case of
poisoning. In addition, SEA recommends a strict system of insecticide rotation to avoid use of
the same insecticide during consecutive years, in order to prevent the development of resistance
to a pesticide and avoid use of increasing dosages. SEA also recommends the use of seeds
treated with fungicides and of varieties resistant to the common pest Empoasca Fascialis.
7.           In spite of existing regulations, the EA found that there is still a weak
enforcement of  iaid          in the handling and storage of toxic chemicals, which could
result in accidents. The major problems include: lack of protective and safety equipment for
workers; storage of pesticides in the open, near water sources, or within easy reach of children
and animals; and re-use of plastic or metal containers for storage of water.
8.           In large-scale operations, Vayig is done by airplanes and tractors which present
environmental risks and need careful attention. Although aerial spraying provides better coverage
and uniformity of distribution, its disadvantages are that it affects the health of the population
living near the cotton fields and food cropa that are grown in the vicinity; and, it pollutes rivers,
lakes and other water sources in the area. It is recommended that aerial spraying be restricted
in areas with high population density aqd with water sources in the vicinity of fields, and that it



- 133 -
Am&IQ
Page 3 of 4
should not be introduced in the family subsector. Application of pesticides by tractors have lesser
environmental risk than aerial spraying; however, washing of tanks at the end of the operation
near rivers and water sources causes pollution and frequently poses health hazards to the
population in the area. Presently a part of the family subsector fields are sprayed with battery-
operated micro-sprayers using a pre-packaged low volume formula (ULV), which does not
require mixing with water, is easy to maintain and handle and poses a lesser risk of
environmental damage to the soil and the air.  From  both environmental and technical
considerations the continued use of the ULV system by the family subsector is highly
recommended.
9.            Major pests attacking cotton are classified as sucking and chewing insects.
Organmphospha  with the brand names of Profenofos and Endosulfan are used in Mozambique
to control sucking insects. When applied, Profenofos should be 50% or less in concentration,
while Endosulfan should be 25% or less in concentration. For chewing insects pyrethroid of
various types is used and these pose no major health or environmental hazard if used with a low
level of concentration. The main issue is that these pesticides, particularly the organophosphates,
are broad spectrum and kill the natural enemies of the pests which may lead to the increasing use
of pesticides and greater incidence of environmental damage. The pesticide spraying program
is, presently, mainly calendar based, without determining the level of pest infestation, which often
leads to using more chemicals than necessary. Chemical control cannot be avoided and is still
the most practical means to control pest infestation in cotton culture; however, it is crucial to
avoid calendar spraying and to endeavor to reduce the reliance on c'iemicals.
10.          A key method for reducing the use of chemicals is through the practice of
intated pest managemnt (IPM), wh.ch will be introduced by the project, and includes the
following: (a) adoption of the scouting method, whereby crops in the field are examined to
determine the type, stages of pest development and the degree of infestation, before spraying.
When infestation reaches the maximum level, according to existing norms, and starts inflicting
economic damage, spraying with the appropriate pesticide and dosage is justified. Scouting also
helps to localize the area of serious infestation, thus limiting the area to be sprayed and reducing
the possibility of destroying other useful organisms in the field; (b) timely and correct cultivation
practices, such as good soil preparation and weeding; (c) practicing crop rotation, intercropping
and deep ploughing; (d) selecting appropriate varieties that have more resistance to disease and
pests, and planting of seed pre-treated with fungicide; and (e) use of biological c.ntrol which
protects and encourages indigenous natural enemies and predators. The selective use of chemical
control, such as the spraying of sexual pheromones in the air as birth control mechanism, is used
to confuse the males so that they will not mate and fertilize the egg. A combination of all these
methods constitute IPM and has great potential in reducing the use of pesticides and, thus, the
environmental risks associated with it.
11.          Ariultura i. The environmental impact of the credit scheme which is
aimed at providing financing for the purchase of inputs, including agro-chemicals, is for the most
part neutral. Mitigating actions through IPM have been included in the project to address the
potential adverse impact from the application of pesticides.
12.          Land Use ad Manaement. The impact of land registration and titling is neutral;
promotion of soil conservation practices, improved land use, and sound cultivation practices for
sustainable agriculture will be beneficial to the environment. Soil conservation and land use
strategies to be developed under the project would include the following elements: improved seed



- 134 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
bed preparation; green manuring; subsoiling; contour ploughing; agro-forestry; vegetative strips;
and minimum tillage/direct sowing.
13.          Rural Water Supply. The activities to be financed under this component will have
no negative environmental impact.
Conclusions
14.          The findings and recommendations of the Environmental Assessment have been
incorporated in the design of the proposed project and will be addressed in the course of project
implementation (para 5.12 of SAR). Although the use of pesticides by the family subsector is
minimal at present, it is likely that in the future the use of pesticides will increase. Therefore,
the project provides financing for a study to assess the health impact from increased use of
pesticides by project participants.



- 135 -
Annex 1I
Page 1 of 10
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Accounting GQuidelines
1. General
The following entities would be involved in project implementation: UDA, INIA,
DNDR, DINAGECA, PDA Nampula, PDA Cabo Delgado, the Banking System (BM, BPD &
BSTM) and PRONAR. Of these, the first six are organizational dependencies of the Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA). While the management functions of the participating entities would
include annual planning, budgeting of their specific component, implementation of planned
activities and component accounting and reporting, the Accounting Unit (AU) wW in the MOA,
assisted by UDA, would be responsible for centralized procurement, chann sling of funds,
maintenance of project accounting records and preparation of financial statements for the annual
audit. These guidelines which have been prepared to assist the AU would be periodically
reviewed during implementation and modified according to evolving circumstance.
2. Proiect Accounts
Except for the banking system, all the other implementing agencies are
Government units and accounting would be done on a single entry cash basis in accordance with
the Government regulations. Project accounting, would also be maintained on a cash basis and
project accounts would form an integral part of the normal accounting system of the respective
units. However, all project transactions would be accounted for under a separate sub-heading -
'ASRDP" - in all accounting records and financial statements. To facilitate identification, all
vouchers pertaining to project expenditures would be rubber-stamped "ASRDP - IDA". At the
end of the month, each agency would prepare a summary of project expenditures under the
following headings with physical data wherever possible and forward it to AU with supporting
vouchers/statements:
Civil Works
Housing Construction
Building Rehabilitation
Construction of Wells
Construction of Boreholes
Vehicles & Equipment
Technical Assistance
Consultancy Services
Training
Studies
Sub-loans (Line of Credit)



- 136 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 10
Operating Costs
Staff Salaries
Other Operating Costs (Specify)
AU would review the summary statements and would consolidate these summaries with its own
project summary.
3. The summarized Accounts of the Project would be in the form of a "Sources and Application
of Funds" (SAP) Crable 1) statement prepared from the consolidated project expenditure summary
compiled by AU and the books described in para 4 maintained by AU.
4. IDA Dsbursemnts
The AU would be responsible for the procurement of goods and services required
for the project in accordance with IDA Guidelines and for making withdrawals from the IDA
Credit Account. AU would also be responsible for establishing and operating the Special
Account". An IDA Credit Withdrawal Register and a Special Account cash book based on the
formats given in Tables 4 and S would be maintained to record all withdrawals from the IDA
Credit and the transactions routed through the Special Account.
3. Suidia  Boks and Re
Subsidiary Books and records would be maintained by all the agencies. Specific
minimum requirements are given in Table 6.
6. Withdrawals from the IDA Credit based on Statements of Expenditures (SCQ
Under the IDA Development Credit Agreement, SOEs would be used for
disbursement on the following items:
|  @  Incremental recurrent expenditures comprising staff salaries, office expenses, and
cost of operation and maintenance of equipment, vehicles and buildings used in
project execution.
°     Civil works comprising building rehabilitation, site preparation, borehole/well
construction done on force account.
O     Training expenses.
a     Seasonal credit.
*     All contracts for goods costing less than $20,000 each.
AU would be responsible for ensuring that an adequate system of internal control with regard to
all payments covered by the SOEs would be in force throughout the project period. Under this
system, SOE should be traceable to the project accounts and the supporting vouchers and all data
together with vouchers should be available at headquarters f1or review by IDA supervision
missions and the independent auditor.



- 137 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 10
7. Annual Accounts. Audit & Audit Reports
At the aid of each fiscal year, AU would prepare the following financial
statements for audit by the independent auditor:
*     Project Accounts - 'Sources and Application of Funds" (Table 1).
o     Summary of Special Account (Table 2).
o     Summary of withdrawals made from IDA Credit on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) (Table 3).
AU would be responsible for the timely submission of the above financial statements to the
independent auditors for audit to ensure that the audit reports on the three statements are sent to
IDA within nine months of the end of each fiscal year, Ps specified in the Development Credit
Agreement and detailed in Appendix A of this Annex.



- 138 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 10
Table 1
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sources and Apnlication of Funds - FY 19,..
(in MT. '000)
Note Ref.    This Year    Last Year      Cumulative for
Project Period
To Date
Sources of Funds
Government
IDA
(Cumulative to date in
USD/SDR equivalent
for IDA Credit)
Application of
Funds
Civil Works:
-Housing
-Building Rehab.
-Wells/Boreholes
Vehicles & Equip.:
Tech. Assist.:
-Consultants
-Training
-Studies
Line of Credit:
Ircremental
Operating Costs:
-Staff Salaries
-Other Operating
Costs
PPF Repayment
Special Account
Balance



- 139 -
Annex 11
Page 5 of 10
Table 2
MOZAMBIOUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Special Account for the Fiscal Year Ended
December 31, 19..
(in US Dollars)
Receipts                                      Payments
Original Imprest/    Amount                 Description   Category Amouln
Balance b/f:
Replenishment on....
Balance c/f



- 140 -
Annex I 1
Page 6 of 10
Table 3
MOZAMBIQUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Withdrawals Made From IDA Credit on the Basis of Certified
Statements of Expenditures During the Fiscal Years Ended
December 31. 19.,
W/A # and       Brief          Exp.        Amount        SDR         Analysis
Datg         Desc.         Total         Claimed       Eguiv.        by
Category
C~~~~~~~~



Table 4
MOZAMBIOUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ASRDPI
Special Account Cash Book
Location ...               Account # .....           Imprest (USD) .
Receipts                                                     Payments
Cost &
IDA Cr.                        Amount in                           IDA
W/A Ref.                                    Categories         Date         Currency of   Exchange              Credit
& Date      Description ''    Amount         Debited      Description        Request        Rate      USD   Category
Including Credit Category Details and IDA Payment Advice Reference.
2/     Including Offshore BanktBM Payment Advice Reference.
(D
0U 



Table 5
MOZAMBIOUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA Credit - Withdrawal Register
W/A Ref.       Brief Description of                          IDA's share paid direct (by IDA) or from special account      Analysis of
& Date         Goods/Services          Total Amt.                                                                           Credit
Financing  Category  Amount 1'  Exchange   USD   SDR   MT    Category
%                                Rate
1/    In Currency of Claim
O (D



- 143 -
Annex 11
Page 9 of 10
Table 6
MOZAMBIOUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subsidiary Books and Records
DPA and PRONAR 1/
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis Book
Fixed Assets Register
Payroll
Vehicle Log Book
Stock Book
Costing Book
Costing records for civil works, specifically for wells & boreholes.
AU
Special Account Cash Book
IDA - Credit Withdrawal Register
Procurement Follow-up Register
Cash Book
Project Expenditure Analysis and Amalgamation Book
Fixed Assets Register
Vehicle Log Book
Stock Book
Payroll
Vouchers/Statements for SOEs
PFIs
Documents, vouchers and records pertaining to sub-loans.
1/ Each of these two institutions would have to keep separate records as indicated.



- 144 -
Annex 11.
Page 10 of 10
Appendix A
MOZAMBIOUE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Compliance with Audit Covenants
A. Target Date for Appointment of Independent
Auditor with proper Terms of Reference          September 30, 1992
B. Audited Accounts and Audit Reports to be
submitted for each fiscal year commencing
year ending                                     December 31, 1992
(a) Accounts/Statements
Project Accounts (Table 1)
Special Account Summary (Table 2)
SOEs Summary (Table 3)
(b) Audit Reports
Audit Reports (short form) on each
of the above, together with a long-form
audit report commenting on managerial
aspects and internal controls
C. Due date for submission of the first set of
Audited Statements and Audit Reports            September 30, 1993
D. Due date for each subsequent fiscal year's          September 30,
audited statements and Audit Reports, until the  following the
end of the project                              the end of each
fiscal year.



- 145 -                              Anneix 12
Mozambique
Agricultu al Services Rehabilitation and Develpment Proiect
Documennts inject File
I.   The Cotton Sub-sector: Designs for Research, Extension and Tnvestment Programs, Maputo,
September 1989
2.   Agricultural Services for Family Sector Cotton: Institutions and Management, Maputo, March
1990
3.   Agricultural Services for Family Sector Cotton: The Extension Component, Maputo, March
1990
4.   Agricultural Services for Family Sector Cotton: The Cotton Ginning Industry, Maputo, March
1990
5.   Agricultural Services for Family Sector Cotton: Project Proposals, Maputo, May 1990
6.   Secretariat de Estado do Algodao: Relatorio da Campanha 1988-1989, Maputo, May 1990
7.   Montepuez Agro-industrial Complex Project, Maputo, July 1990
8.   Mocuba Project, Cotton Farm, September 1990
9.   Montepuez Project Proposals, Maputo, December 1990
10.  Family Sector Cotton Project: Environmental Assessment, February 1991
11.  Staff Working Paper #1: Agricultural !ixtension, October 1991
12.  Staff Working Paper #2: Agricultural Research, October 1991
13.  Staff Working Paper #3: Rural Water Supply, October 1991
14.  Staff Working Paper #4: Land Use and Management, October 1991
15.  Staff Working Paper #5: Organization and Management, October 1991
16.  Staff Working Paper #6: Monitoring and Evaluation, October 1991
17.  Staff Working Paper #7: Cotton and Food Crop Pricing Policies, October 1991
18.  Staff Working Paper #8: Financial and Economic Analysis, October 1991
19.  Detailed Project Costs and Economic Analysis, October 1991.



_ _________________________________________________________________________________________________                   IBRD   7109 7
e                                 M O Z A M B i Q U e
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
T A N Z A N I A                                                                      REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
PHASING OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT IMPLIMENTATION BY YEAR
C A 8 0  ~~~~~~~~~~~17]POJECT YEAR I
DELGA                                                             EYfl /  ' 'PROJECT YEAR 2
'2         I         3     PROJECT YEAR 3
f [111111 PROJECT YEAR 4
1   2                           .C .*z - 71  *.                         _   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
.   PROVINCE CAPITALS
N   I A   S S A                                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
S    NATIONAL CAPITAL
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0   50       00~i    '50       2?0
U   IERA    
~~~~~~~ t4    K'tOUE7C
/-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h~o 0 An. t'Uo'.T              A, IN.; Wo ,o. _,,,  ,_,_ _OL, , 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b 0.1 IA, 4,r&' la' C4,0004 4. 4.'O.oow, ,.4 00
N AC \LA ~ ~    N N              W.
ATE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN
~~~                                                    TA.ZAWA~~~~~~~~~~~ZAR
'AN-,   NG°tA < tA'  1COMOROS
Z  A  M   B E Z  I A  t   WAAS ]SS8>                  16               HEIOTSW3NAM                    la
l  EA{D'SA  <                              ,Jv- ^zl)KANGOLApU-l
M,                 ~~~~~~~~16'- 
SWZIN M-poto
SOU         4 SOTHO
AIR.ct
JULY 1991



________________________________________18_ lORD 23098
TANZANIA
o      100    200    300
KILOMETERS                         {                               \CABO
DELGADO
'" 2                                                                                              1   ,
ZAMBIA                                                                    a
¢                   o        \                            {p.      Wf7Pem~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rba
LIcig      NIASSA         f,        
*             < # - WI  >                                \ 0   J   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEBAPA
4             Et XMUTUALWI>             CU
TETE                                         N  p
A                  M           r            MO~~~~~~~~~~~~AO°    NAMPULA
<               TeTeS°  \o       fJ~   ZAMBEZIA                   NETL6-
MOEUBA
MOCUBELA
QueI;mane          MOZAMBIQUE
.  MANICAS MUTARA                   AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
REHABILITATION AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZIMBABWE            Chimo o    SOFALA                            PROJECT AREA
MANGA                   [7j3AJ  PROJECT AREA
Beiro                       COTTON GINNERY SITES
r  PROVINCE CAPITALS
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
-    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
2--                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES     2r
INHAMBANE                            ZAIEA
TANZANIA
k  GAZA    3     JANGAMO
GAZA            ~~~~~a
COMOROS
\f   CHCkWE   t                               | ZUnhombane
AFRICA          ~          ss                           ;l) ?             4 NMAEA       o
es                                        OF~~~~~~~~~~~OhWN    OMAP
MAPUTO                                         I                 __SWAZII
J~~~~~~~~1              'Y 1Ae, WlVdSd
2,                                         8._ \    ''    X,^¢0i>0e   - T Ond  Q C--LESOTHO
nneT   S44 C.Ron d                Ol d  SOU T.
hW.M 4O      nod , n,,, In,neT    F- Pe °Cn.POII e  A F RICA
(SWAZILAND _         v,O     ^A~e
3,4' 3_
JULY 1991



