Fx                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..- 4-~ -b k
S                                                                    in-   . - ' 
I!p.lii                                                          
w., C C



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
June     1992 - TL6885 = US$1.00
August   1992 - TL7094 = US$1.00
Novenber 1992 - TL8110 = US$1.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMM    - Bursa Metropolitan Municipality
BUSKI  - Bursa Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
DM     = District Municipality
DSI    - State Hydraulic Works
EBFs   - Extra Budgetary Funds
IB     - Iller Bankasi (Bank of the Provinces)
IBRD   - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC    = International Finance Corporation
IMF    = International Monetary Fund
GDP    = Gross Domestic Product
GEF    = Global Environment Facility
GNP    = Gross National Product
METAP  - Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
MIGA   = Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
OECD   = Overseas Economic Community Development
PSBR   - Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
SALs   = Structural Adjustment Loans
SECALs = Sector Adjustment Loans
SIS    = State Institute of Statistics
SOEs   = State-Owned Enterprises
SPO    - State Planning Organization
TURKEY - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
JhU3IC  OF MM
BURSA WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
ILan and Pro ect Summary
Borrowers:   Bursa Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (DUSKI)
Bursa Metropolitan Municipality (BMM)
Guarantor:   Republic of Turkey
Loan Amount: US$117.0 million equivalent to BUShI
US$12.5 million equivalent to BM
Total of US$129.5 million equivalent
Terms:       Seventeen years, including five years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Financing Plans
(US$ million equivalent)      BUSRI                Total
IBRD Loans                    117.0        12.5    129.5
Internal Cash Generation      118.4        10.S    128.9
Total                         235.4        23.0    258.4
The proposed loans would finance the foreign exchange cost of the project.
Internal Rate of Return:
On Water Supply & Sewerage Part:  8.2%
Staff A=oraisal ReDort:      No. 11252-TU
Mazs: IBRD Nos. 24150R, 24151R, 24152R, and 24153R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoristion.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED LOANS
TO THE BURSA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
AND THE BURSA METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITY
PART I: INTRODUCTION
1.    The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to the
Bursa Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (BUSKI) for US$117.0 million
equivalent, and a proposed loan to the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality (9MM) for
US$12.5 million equivalent, with the Guarantee of the Republic of Turkey are
submitted for approval. The loans would be made on standard Bank terms to
assist in the construction and implementation of sewerage, stormwatee drainage,
water supply and solid waste management systems in the Greater Bursa. area, and
assist in the institutional development of the agencies in charge of operating
the systems.
PART IIt COUNTRY POLICIES AND THE BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Trends in Policies and Performance
2.    Back_round.  In 1980, following a serious external crisis, Turkey embarked
on a stabilization and reform program which represented a major break with past
policies favoring import substitution, market intervention and reliance on state
enterprises. Between 1980 and 1986, economic growth averaged about 5 percent
per year, inflation was reduced to 28 percent per annum, and, as a result of an
outward-oriented strategy, exports as a share of GDP increased threefold,
substantially improving Turkey's creditworthiness. After 1986, there was
further progress in integrating Turkey into the world economy, Dut most of the
previous gains In reducing inflation were lost with the reemergence of serious
fiscal imbalances. External liberalization continued as import restrictions
were reduced, export subsidies curtailed, and controls on capital transactions
substantially diminished. The process culminated in a reform of the exchange
rate system which left it Iorgely free of restrictions on external transactions.
3.    These achievements have been overshadowed by persistently high deficits
and inflation. After being lowered successfully from a three-digit level of
1980, inflation starting rising again from 1987 to reach 60 percent in 1990.
The fundamental cause was the public sector deficit. Fueled by the poor
performance of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), the public sector borrowing
requirement (PSBR) reached 11.6 percent of GNP by 1990.   On the external front,
the performance remained strong, with the current account shifting into surplus
in the late 1980s, aided by growing revenues from tourism and workers'
remittances and continued export growth. Foreign direct investment also surged,
and Turkey was able to diversify its sources of foreign financing while repaying
the last of its IMF and rescheduled commercial debt.
4.    The 1980s also witnessed substantial political changes.  After three years
of military government, an elected civilian Government took over in 1983. Since
the political liberalization, economic policy has had to operate in an
increasingly complex environment. The Motherland Party stayed in power till
October 1991, with Mr. Ozal taking over as President in 1989 after a



-2-
presidential election held through a parliamentary vote. In general elections
held in October 1991, the Motherland Party lost and a coalition government was
announced between Mr. Demirel'e True Path Party and Mr. Inonu's Social Democrat
Populist Party. Prime Minister Demirel's Government announced its intention to
stabilize the economy and maintain the outward-looking and market-oriented
policy stance of the 1980s. The coalition has shown resilience, enduring a
weakening of the Social Democrat Populist Party due to the defection of several
of its leaders. Foreign policy issues, ethnic unrest at home and in neighboring
countries, and the need to quell terrorism, continue to preoccupy the
leadership. Public support for the Government will be tested in March 1994,
when nationwide local elections will be hald.
Recent Developments
5.    mconomig. Economic performance in 1991 was influenced by three major
eventss the Gulf war, a change in Government in mid-year, and national elections
in October. These events heightened uncertainty, depressed investment and
economic activity and disrupted the exchange and financial markets. After
expanding by 9.2 percent in 1990, GNP grew by only 0.3 percent in 1991. As
domestic political events unfolded, electoral considerations dominated the
policy agenda, and the fiscal deficit widened. The PSER rose to 16.9 percent of
GNP and consumer price inflation increased to reach an average of 66 percent
(Table 1). The underlying causes of the fiscal deterioration, which stemmed
from the pol4tical agenda, includeds generous wage increases for civil servants
and public sector workers, agricultural support policies, and the poor
performance of the 803E.
6.    Prime Minister Demirel's Government, which took office in late 1991, thus
inherited an economy with a high fiscal deficit and rising inflation. The
Government's program was aimed at reducing the PSBR by accelerating tax
collection coupled with a partial tax amnesty, implementing a centralized cash
management scheme for the Extra Bud atary Funds (BBFs), accelerating
privatization and improving the financial performance of SOEs. The
implementation of the anti-inflationary strategy was, and continues to be,
complicated by some real wage rigidity, a large domestic debt burden, a public
investment program which had already been substantially cut since 1987, and
significant tax evasion by individuals and corporations.
7.    In 1992, little progress was made in dealing with key structural issues,
including subsidies, in particular for agriculture; 80E divestiture and
restructuring; and tax reform. Economic activity picked up and GNP growth is
estimated at 5.4 percent, but this was a consumption-led growth reflecting large
wage increases which took place in the second half of 1991. Private investment
remained weak. The ElB  were subjected to financial discipline and some fiscal
adjustment took place. The P8BR is estimated to have declined from 16.9 percent
of GNP in 1991 to 13.4 percent. Inflation remained high at 70 percent, as labor
settlements continued to reflect past inflation rates, and inflationary
expectations embodied in interest rates remained high. Without the needed
fiscal adjustment, Central Bank credit to the public sector expanded rapidly,
and the authorities concentrated on maintaining stability in the foreign
currency markets. A reduction of the fiscal deficit is crucial to facilitate
the recovery of private investment and provide an environmc.nt to improve
productivity and competitiveness. Unless the problems of the major loss-making
SOEs are addressed, the sector will remain a major drain on the public finances.
With nationwide local elections scheduled for March 1994, there is a risk that



-3-
the Government's political agenda will exacerbate the difficulties of improving
the fiscal deficit.
8.     Thus, in many respects, Turkey iL  in a similar position at the start of
1993 ae that of a year ago. The reduction of the fiscal deficit remains the top
priority. However, the conditions under which the adjustment will have to be
implemented have charged.   Past policy sl,ppage has increased the rigidity of
inflationary expectations. The process of currency substitution, which
accelerated in the last two years, has not reverse and has reduced the room for
non-inflationary financing of the deficit through monetary expansion. Given the
openness of Turkey's capital account, attempts to reduce the Government's
interest burden by resorting to Central Bank financing and by interfering with
interest rate determination, had an adverse effect on capital flows and
reinforced currency substitution. As Central Bank reserves declined in early
1992, tne authorities were forced to raise interest rates to reverse the
process.
Table 1: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS 1982-92
(Percent except as indicated)
1982-86   1987-91    1990    1991    1992 1/
GROWTH RATES
GNP per capita                                 3.0       2.2     6.8      -1.8      3.2
GNP                                            e.S       4.4      9.2      0.3      5.4
Consumption                                  5.2       5.2    11.2        2.0     9.5
Investment                                   7.4       1.7    31.6    -14.6       0.7
Exports GNFS                                16.2      14.0      9.1      11.4     3.5
Imports GNFS                                14.4      13.3    35.4      -2.1      10.5
GOP f.c.                                       5.1       4.2      8.2      1.1      4.9
Agriculture                                  4.1       1.6    11.1       -0.8      3.5
Industry                                     7.4       5.6      8.1      3.2      6.6
Services                                     4.6       4.4      6.5      0.8       4.6
INFLATION (per;od average)
Wholesale Prices                            35.9      53.8    52.3       55.3    62.1
Consumer Prices                             37.9      60.3    60.3       66.0     70.1
PUBLIC SECTOR BORROWING REQUIREMENT (PSBR)
PSBR/GNP 2/                                    6.0      10.3     11.6     16.9     13.4
EXTERNAL DEBT
Stock of Debt (USS Bitl)                      24.1      44.5     49.2     50.3     50.9
Debt / GNP                                    46.5      53.7    46.2      48.1     46.0
Debt t Export 3/                             211.5    206.4   195.1    194.7    180.1
Debt Service / Export                         32.2      33.2    29.1      30.5     25.8
Interest Payment / Export                     16.5      14.2    13.4      12.8     10.0
Interest Payment / GNP                         3.6      3.7      3.2       3.2      2.6
Current Account / GNP                         -2.6       0.0    -2.5       0.3      -1.1
CENTRAL RANK RESERVES (USS biLl)                 2.6       5.6      7.6       6.6      7.6
Sources: SIS, SPO, Treasury, World Debt Tables
I/ Estimates
2/ Average for 1984-1986. For the 199012 period, Gulf crisis related grants are excluded.
3/ Exports of goods and services



-4-
9.    Turkey's external debt in 1992 was estimated at US$50.9 billion.
Creditworthiness indicators have improved since the mid-1980s.  The debt service
ratio has fallen from an average of 32.2 percent during 1982-86 to 25.8 percent
in 1992, and the ratio of interest payments to exports has declined from about
16.5 percent to about 10 percent in 1992 (Table 1). External intereat payments
now absorb about 15 percent of government revenues, a smaller share than in the
mid-1980s. As explained in paragraph 12 below, there has been a reduction in
the average maturity of long-term debt. Short-term debt as a pexcentage of
total debt increased from about 15 percent in 1988-89 to about 20 percent in
1992. About two-thirds of the debt is at fixed interest rates.
10.   Social.  Turkey's social indicators have improved considerably over the
last two decades. The average life expectancy of both men and women has gone
up; mortality rates have declined; fertility has dropped; and literacy rates
have increased appreciably. For example, infant mortality has declined from 169
per 1,000 live births in 1965 to 60 by 1990. The fertility rate has dropped
from 5.7 in 1965 to 3.5 in 1990; and the literacy rate has improved from about
60 percent to abor3 81 percent. However, Table 2 below shows Turkey is behind
other middle income countries for selected social indicators. This is true, for
example, with respect to life expectancy, infant mortality, as well as literacy
rates. In addition, there are significant disparities among regions, especially
in basic health and education services, and in particular for women and girls.
The population growth rate, averaging about 2.4 percent, remains high.
Table 2: SELECTED SOCIAL INDICATORS
ComqaratiVe Data
Turkey   Chile  Colombia  Mexico  Poland  Tunisia
Population Grouth Rate CX) (1980-90)  2.4  1.7     2.0      2.0     0.7      2.3
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000 inhabitants)    28  22  24      27       15      28
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000 inhabitants)    7  6    6        5       10      7
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)   67      72       69      70      71       67,
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 lfve births)    60  17  37      39       16      44
Iuuminization children under one (X)
OPT                           74.0    99.0    87.0    66.0    98.0    93.0
tleasles                      67.0    98.0    82.0    78.0    96.0    82.0
Fearles as X of Labor Force (1990)  30.0    20.7    14.4    18.6    45.6    16.2
Literacy Rate                     80.7    93.4    86.7    87.3       na     65.3
Primary Pupil/Teacher Ratio (1989)  30     29       30      31       16      30
Primary Net Enrotlment (X, 1989)  84.0    89.0    69.0    100.0   97.0    95.0
GNP per capita (USS, 1990)        1630    1940    1260    2490    1690    1440
Sources: World Development Report, 1992
Social Indicators of Development, 1991-92
B. The External Environment
11.   The spillover effects of domestic imbalances on the exter:%al accounts have
been mitigated by a flexible exchange rate policy which helped to maintain the



-5-
competitiveness of Turkish goods. In 1990-9.a. the Gulf Crisis had an important
impact on the external sector, but its effects were compensated by large grant
inflows.  All..ough in 1990, domestic policies and the Gulf Crisis led to a
marked deterioration in the externa. accounts, in 1991 sizeable Gulf Crisis-
related grants (1.8 percent of GNP) and a decline in the trade deficit, mostly
due to a slowdown in private demand, compensated for the decline in tourism
revenues anc. workers' remittances and led to a small current account surplus.
Overall, the external sector adjusted well to the shocks. The loss of
traditional export markets, such as Iraq, was compensated by inroads into other
markets. The same resilience was apparent in the service sector where new
markete were explored, and service contractors aggressively and successfully
tapped new business opportunities.
12.   In 1992, in spite of the good performance of the export and tourism
sectors, large import growth and lower inflows from Gulf crisis-related grants
led to a current account deficit which is estimated to have reached US$1.1
billion compared to a US$0.3 billion surplus in 1991. Foreign direct investment
rose from around US$100 million (net) per annum in the mid- and late-1980s to
US$783 million in 1991, and a further increase is estimated for 1992. Higher
direct foreign investment has contributed to reducing Turkey's external borrow-
ing requirements. In 1992, Turkey was very active in the bond markets,
successfully tapping the German, U.S., and Japanese markets after Standard and
Poors gave Turkey a triple B rating. Treasury issued US$2.1 billion in bonds
with maturities ranging from 5 to 7 years. Turkey's success over the past three
years in attracting private capital from a variety of sources, despite financial
instability, indicates considerable resilience and external confidence in the
country's prospects. However, the falling share of bilateral and multilateral
financing and the uncertainty attached to private flows has meant that Turkey's
financing arrangements are seldom assured over any significant time period.
This trend has also shortened the average maturity of debt. Continued
macroeconomic instability could diminish the willingness of domestic investors
to finance Government borrowing and have an adverse impact on workers' remit-
tances and foreign creditor perceptions, necessitating a major downward
adjustment of growth.
13.   Turkey has gained substantial market access and has succeeded in
developing strong and broad-based trading links with its European and Middle
Eastern trading partners. The OECD countries are Turkey's main trading
partners, representing about two-thirds of both exports and imports. Among
them, Germany is the largest trading partner accounting for one-fourth of
Turkey's exports and about 15 percent of its imports. Turkey is also actively
exploring trade links with the new republics in Central Asia.
14.   As the Gulf war experience showed, Turkey is vulnerable to a shock coming
from one of its major trading partners. However, it has sizeable foreign
exchange reserves and its exporters of goods and services (mainly construction),
have proven adept at shifting trade to other countries. A major shock stemming
from a slowdown in world trade or a decline in the terms of trade could be
cushioned for a time by drawing down reserves or through increased borrowing.
Turkey's ability to maintain reserve levels or external borrowing capacity which
it can call upon in difficult times depende greatly on its following appropriate
domestic policies. The persistence of such shocks, however, would lead to a
need to compress imports and, hence, growth. In contrast, moderate interest
rate shocks would increase the payments required by a relatively small amount
and could readily be met from reserves.



-6-
Medium-Term Prosnacts
15.   The Government has announced its commitment to reducing the fiscal deficit
and inflation in the medium term. The 1993 budget, if fully implemented, will
be a signjificant step towards this goal. The deficit reduction will have to be
anchored on tax reforms, preparatory studies for which are now underway; a
revision of agricultural support policies, currently being reviewed by the
authorities; and public enterprise reform. There is now a growing acceptance by
the Turkish public that in the absence of public enterprise reform, it will be
very difficult to permanently lower the PSBR and inflation. This may reduce the
political obstacles to the reform of the sector. But the fiscal retrenchment is
likely to be gradual. This is likely to reduce growth in the 1994-95 period
below the average of the last decade. Yet, for the 1996-2001 period, GDP growth
is projected to average 5.2 percent per annum, as a recovery of private
investment is unleashed by bringing down the fiscal deficit to about 5 percent
of GN: by 1997 and inflation is substantially reduced. In this scenario,
creditworthiness will continue to improve. The continuation of the trade
policies of the last decade should support a healthy export growth that will
keep the current account deficit to less than one percent of GNP. By the year
2001, the debt-to-GDP ratio would decline to 29.3 percent while the interest-to-
exports ratio would fall to 7.2 perc-nt.
16.   There is also the possibility that Turkey would be decidedly slower in
adopting reform measures and, therefore, current deficit levels and inflation
rates would persist. Continued macroeconomic instability would diminish the
willingness of domestic investors to finance gover.=ment borrowing and reduce
external capital inflows. Growth would be lower than in the scenario above
because of the stop-go fiscal and monetary measures needed to prevent inflation
from accelerating, the adverse effect of uncertainty on private investment, and
difficulties in attracting flows of foreign capital and workers' remittances.
17.   Past Bank Assistance.  The Bank's assistance during the 1980s supported
the Government's objectives of placing greater reliance on market forces and
adopting a more outward-oriented strategy. During the first half of the decade,
the main vehicle for the Bank's assistance was a series of structural adjustment
loans (SALs) totalling US$1.6 billion. These were followed in the second half
of the decade by Bank support for the broadening and deepening of the adjustment
process at the sectoral level. Sector adjustment loans (SECALs) to support
reforms in the agricultural, energy, and financial sectors totalled US$1.3
billion together with four B-loans amounting to US$112 million. Since 1989,
Bank lending has focussed on inv3stment, with an emphasis on the rehabilitation
and expansion of Turkey's economic infrastructure (Table 3). Commitments during
FY90-92 averaged about US$520 million annually. A Bank loan for an earthquake
rehabilitation and reconstruction project in eastern Turkey was approved earlier
this fiscal year.
18.   Progress in instituting policy reforms under the SALs was uneven,
particularly in public sector reform. One of the lessons learned is that the
adjustment operations should have been accompanied by stronger structural and
institutional changes to achieve a sustained reduction of the public sector
deficit. Restructuring of the public enterprise sector in particular, the
performance of which deteriorated sharply in recent years becoming a source of
instability, should have been an integral part of the reform package.
Experience under the SECALs was also mixed; most of the specific sectoral reform
measures were put in place, but it often took longer than originally



-7-
anticipated, as the implementation period coincided with the slowing down of the
domestic reform process. Although quite euccessful initially, more recently,
the performance of credit operations has deteriorated. The underlying caueas
include a general slowdown in investment, high intezest rates, and investors'
expectations that plane for subsidised cred4t schemes announced by the
Government would materialize. Under the circumstances, the cancellation of the
undisbureed balances of two loans was agreed between the Government and the
Bank.
Table 3I IBRD CONMITNENTS BY SECTOR FOR FY8I-93
(USS mi illtion)
Sector                   FY81-83    FY84-86    FY87-89     FY9O-92      FY93
Agriculture                230.4     442.5       400.0      118.0       77.0
Power                      163.0     544.0       132.0      570.0
Oil, Gas & Coal            142.2
Transport & Telecom.       71.1      320.9      197.0       300.0
Urban & Water              88.1        9.2       522.0      173.0      129.5
Industry & Finance         364.1     162.7      504.5       309.2
Health                                           75.0
Education                             94.5      174.3       90.2       67.0
Disaster Rellef                                                        285.0
Adjustment Operations      980.3     976.0      837.6
TOTAL                     2039.2     2549.8     2842.4     1560.4      558.5
19.   Credit from the Bank Group comprised the largest single source of medium-
and long-term financing for Turkey during the 1980.. Through December 31, 1992,
Bank and IDA lending tc Turkey amounted to US$11.4 billion, through 133
operations (the last IDA credit was approved in 1973). As a result, IBRD's
share of long-term debt disbursed and outstanding increased from 7.4 percent in
1980 to 15 percent in 1991. IBMD's share of total debt service increased from
12.1 percent in 1980 to 15.9 percent in 1991. Of total IBRD commitments, about
US$3.1 billion remained undisbursed as of December 31, 1992. IFC commitments
through December 31, 1992 totalled about US$1.1 billion.
20.   As of the end of FY92, of the 34 projects in the portfolio, 10 had an
overall rating of 3, 14 had a rating of 2, and the remainder had a rating of 1.
The overall portfolio rating of 2 for FY92 reflects a modest improvement as
compared to the rating of 2.2 for the previous year. Gross disbursements,
however, are low and, despite systematic efforts to improve performance, have
worsened in recent months. Disbursements for investment lending declined from
US$443 million in FY91, to US$341 million in FY92, and only US$129 million in
the first half of FY93. Or. a net basis, total disbursements turned negative in
FY90, reaching minus US$309 million by FY92. Both the Government and the Bank
are extremely concerned about this deterioration. The underlying causes for the
decline Ln gross disbursements, and solutions to them, will be a major focus of
a Country Strategy and Implementation Review scheduled for mid-February 1993



-8-
21.   Project implementatio.  in Turkey continues to be constrained by weak
project management capacity, rapid turnover of key senior officials,
coiplexities in Government decision-making processes, and cumbersome and lengthy
procurement procedures. Another important constraint in recent years has been
Government budgetary cuts, causing performance to fall below technical
implementation capacity. Inadequate understanding of the Bank's procurement
guidelines has also been a source of implementation delays. our strategy for
portfolio management is summarized in paragraphs 41 to 43 below.
C. The-Bank Grotn's Country Assistance Stratecg
Development lssues
22.   Following the success of the adjustment program of the 1980s, the major
economic challenges fac'ng Turkey in the decade of the 1990w include
stabilization, and a focus on sectoral issues which retard productivity growth.
In parallel, after a decade of relative neglect, the elimination of poverty, a
more even distribution of the benefits of growth, and the environmental impact
of growth need to be tackled urgently. In the ahort term, hcwever, fiscal and
monetary stability are the highest priorities. on the positive side, a much
more robust and outward-oriented economy, with restored international
creditworthiness and a dynamic private sector, puts Turkey in a strong position
to meet these challenges.
23.   The Immediate Acenda.  The Government needs to take strong and effective
action to reduce the fisca deficit on a permanent basis. It requires the
restructuring of the SOB sector through commercialization and/or privatiza -n
of SoBs, and increasing rovenues through tax reforms and improved tax
administration. Although the Government has confirmed its commitment to
commercializ'ng and/or privatizing SOEs, the political and legal environment has
not been supportive. The share of SOBs in sectoral value added is
disproportionately larger in mining (60 percent), energy (40 percent), and
transportation and communication (38 percent), but has been declining in
manufacturing since the mid-1980s (from 18 percent to 14 percent) because of the
Government's decision to restrict expansion in the sector. Overall, the 30
largest SOEs account for some 10 percent of GDP at factor cost and employ
approximately 3 percent of the labor force. In recent years, productivity has
declined, and the financial performance of some major utilities--electricity and
railways--has deteriorated. SOBs accounted for about one-half of the fiscal
deficit in 1990-91. Of the total SOB borrowing requirement for 1991, about 40
percent is attributable to the Government's agricultural support programs which
are administered through SOEs.
24.   An effective fiscal program calls for significant institutional changes in
the SON sector, including an effective divestiture agenda and a transformation
in governance. For SOEs unlikely to be privatised (e.g., the railways and some
utilities), the Government needs to clarify their mandate and commercialize
their operations. Although the Government is reviewing the laws regulating the
operation of the SOBs, the tim being to take them out of the political ambit,
they remain subject to political interference. The depoliticization of SOB
operations (including puLlic utilities and SOEs which administer the
Government's agricultural price support programs), is an imperative if the
fiscal deficit is to be reduced on a permanent basis. A Bank review of the SOE
sector requested by the Government is being fi.,alized.  In addition, the
Government and the Bank are jointly studying the possible design of a social



-9-
safety net, including income and employment support. and a social security
system. This is a prerequisite if the process of reforming the SON sector is to
succeed.
25.   The relatively low yield of the tax system in Turkey is contributing to
the fiecal imbalance. In spite of high statutory tax rates on corporate and
personal income, Turkey's tax burden In 1990 was the lowest among OECD
countries. Inadequate administration, tax evasion, and a large number of
exemptions and rebates are among the underlying problems. Measures to improve
the efficiency of the tax system and ensure a sustainable increase in revenues
includes a revision of the corporate tax to account for the effects of inflation
and to r'duce exemptions and rebates; the gradual elimination of expenditure
rebates in the personal income tax system; a rationalization of the system of
investment incentives; and improvements in tax administration. In the short-
term, tax reform measures may need to be supplemented with increases in VAT
rates.
26.   The Medium-Term Acenda.  Accelerating Turkey's productivity growth in the
1990s will also require investment to develop its human capital base.
Simultaneously, comprehensive measures are needed to alleviate poverty,
particularly in the eastern parts of the country, reduce regional disparities,
and prot!-ct the environment from the adverse impact of growth. Turkey still has
almost half of its labor force in the agricultural sector, an unemployment rate
close to 10 percent of the civilian labor force, and a rapidly growing
population. The Government is faced with the complex task of upgrading the
quality and availability of education and vocational training, health and basic
services, as well as implementing specific poverty alleviation measures. The
Government recognizes this need and has given renewed emphasis to human resource
development in the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1990-94). Finally, while population
growth is expected to decline gradually (from 2.4 percent currently, to 2
percent by the year 2000), increasing education enrollments, especially for
women and for people in the rural areas, provide an opportunity to further
reduce population growth.
27.   The Government needs to address the issue of the disparities in the
economic productivity and the differences in per capita incomes among the
regions. The underlying causes includes differences in natural resources, in
the human capital base, and in the levels of infrastructure and supporting
services. To date, progress has been insufficient in redressing these problems,
in particular with respect to basic education and health services. The main
instruments adopted by the Government consist of disincentives for industrial
location in the three main metropolitan areas (Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir) and
substantial incentives for locating enterprises in the less-developed reglons.
However, these instruments have not thus far succeeded in stimulating investment
in the priority regions to an appreciable extent. The Government's efforts
should be redirected, shifting away from large infrastructure investments and
tax incentives, to smaller, economically viable, and well-focussed investments
to fill critical gaps in infrastructure, and placing greater emphasis than
hitherto on the equitttle development of the human capital base.
28. Rapid population growth, urbanization, industrialization, tourism, and
intensification of agriculture have placed increasing strains on Turkey's
atmosphere, waterways, ground water, land resources, and cultural heritage.
Public awareness about the costs of environmental degradation and the resolve of
the central Government and local authorities to develop positive responses which



-10-
ensure sustainable growth have risen dramatically in Turkey in recent years.
Accordingly, environmental concerns rank high on the public policy agenda, and
there is a growing consensus that the economic and social returns from pollution
abatement and environmental protection justify public investment.
29.   Technological progress is also important for accelerating Turkey's
productivity growth and strengthening its International competitiveness.
Experience in other countries suggests that, in addition to establishing
technology standards and providing advice, Government actions to correct
imperfections in technology information and provide infrastructure, generate
high social returns. The Government is in the process of determining its broad
strategy for technology development and the supporting institutional
infrastructure. A first phase is being implemented under a Bank-financed
Technology Development Project.
Ihe Bank's Prooram
30.   The Bank's assistance strategy for Turkey is shaped by the Government's
policy agenda. But our ability to provide more comprehensive support is
constrained by the difficulties the Government is experiencing in implementing
necessary policy measures. The political sensitivities associated with the
needed reforms, particularly in the public sector, are compounding the
difficulties. The Bank's program would reflect a graduated response, with the
level and composition of future lending depending on Turkey's macroeconomic
performance, sectoral policies and financing requirements. Lending levels could
range from a low of about US$350 million a year to US$1 '-l1lion, depending on
progress in implementing public sector reforms, improving portfolio management,
and upgrading administrative capacity.
31.   For the next two to three years, unless there are significant policy
shifts, and unless the Government forcefully implements macroeconomic and
sectoral policies which succeed in reducing the fiscal deficit and lowering
inflation, Bank lending levels are expected to remain at the low end of the
range. Based on our discussions with the Government and portfolio performance,
we expect that in a low case scenario, Bank assistance will be limited mostly to
urban infrastructure (primarily water supply and sanitation), human capital
development, and environmental protection. Such assistance would, of course, be
predicated on the Government's willingness to tackle relevant policy and
institutional issues in these sectors. In this scenario, given an
unsatisfactory macroeconomic situation, we would expect to continue to play a
technical and advisory role with respect to structural reforms required to
reduce the fiscal deficit. In addition, to help lay the basis for publlc sector
reforms, we would build upon recently initiated E8W on labor restructuring
issues associated with SOE reforms and the design of a social safety not.
32.   Under the low case, our program would emphasize institutional and policy
improvements in urbL. infrastructure, education, and health.  The program would
also address environmental concerns. In investment le,vaing operations, reforms
would include the streamlining and strengthening of institutions, measures to
increase financial and operational efficiency, and policies to ensure that
improvements in urban and social infrastructure are sustained. The latter would
be critical for enhancing the enabling environment for private investment. Also
important is support for improved management of natural resources and increased
private sector involvement in urban infrastructure investments. Given
Government capaclty constraints, a central objective of our assistance strategy



-il-
is to help strengthen management and implementation capacity to enable the
Government to effectively utilize the financial resources it has mobilized.
33.   Efforts are underway to tackle the massive backlog in the provision of
priority infrastructure. The severe strains on the infrastructure resulting
from rapid urbanization and industrialization have been compounded by the rapid
growth in tourism. In our sectoral dialogue on water, sanitation and solid
wasti management issues, the focus is on the need to upgrade the technical and
managerial capabilities of sectoral agencies, to shift expenditures to
maintenance of existing assets, to reduce the budgetary costs of infrastructure
through increased commercialization and improved local resource mobilization, to
strengthen implementing institutions, and to facilitate the entry of the private
sector. In addition to assisting with the establishment of semi-autonomous
water supply and sewerage agencies in Ankara, Istanbul, and Izmir under ongoing
operations, and starting-up assistance for Bursa as proposed in this report, the
Bank is helping to prepare projects to upgrade water supplies and sanitation in
municipalities along the coast. These activities are being supported by the
Environmental Program for the Mediterranean. Transport bottlenecks are also
inhibiting Turkey's continuing development as a dynamic, export-oriented
economy. Continued high levels of maintenance of the road network (which
carries the major share of all traffic) are being supported by the Bank. Future
Bank support for railway restructuring and the reform of ports administration,
essential for dynamic growth, are constrained by the Government's reticence to
tackle critical issues.
34.   In the education sector, the Bank would continue support for the
Government's efforts to upgrade the formal education system as well as non-
formal vocational training. Future operations envisage support to upgrade the
quality of and access to primary and secondary education, and improve regional
equity. Similarly, in health, the main challenge is to expand basic services
and reduce inequalities in the health status, especially between the western and
eastern regions with emphasis on women and girls. Projects under preparation
aim to expand to additional provinces ongoing improvements in equity, quality
and access to primary health care. Concerned about the need to upgrade social
services, the Government has recently requested Bank assistance to help develop
effective and sustainable health insurance schemes.
35.   The Bank's support for environmental assistance emphasizes improvements in
the management of natural resources including soil conservation and
reforestation, urban environmental management and industrial pollution control.
Future Bank assistance would also support the adoption of appropriate
environmental policies and regulations, improved monitoring and enforcement of
environmental laws and regulations, and institutional strengthening to help
ensure effective environmental planning and management. Building on a recently
completed agricultural environment study, and the experience gained under the
proposed Eastern Anatolia Watershed project, we expect to continue to focus on
environmental issues in the eastern region, where subsistence farming
predominates and natural resources are under pressure.
36.   should there be a significant change in the Government's policies
resulting in an sustainable reduction in the fiscal deficit, Bank lending levels
would increase accordingly. In that event, the Bank's program would, in
addition, include support for the restructuring and privatization of the SO0s;
the provision of a social safety net accompanying SOE reform; the development of
capital markets, creating increasingly fine-tuned instruments for corporate



-12-
finance; and, as private investment accelerates, the development of technology
infrastructure, thus promoting faster productivity growth and international
competitiveness in industry. Furthermore, as explained in paragraphs 37 and 38
below, depending on the strength of the Government's sectoral policies, the Bank
could provide more comprehensive assistance for the development of the
agricultural and energy sectors.
37.   The Government's agricultural pricing policies remain a central problem
because they shift incentives away from high value crops and place a large
burden on the Government deficit. Also, agricultural interest rates continue to
be subsidized. Given current policies, the 8ank's ability to support the
agricultural sector is constrained. While continuing to seek the reforms
needed, the Bank would explore how best to strengthen support services, in
particular for smallholder farmers, and increase productivity.
38.   In the energy sector, the Government has been trying to improve demand
management and stimulate the growing interest of private investors, with some
success. Although some progress has been made in improving cost recovery for
electricity, improvements in the operational and managerial efficiency and -
financial accountability of TEX, the largest public power utility, are proving
harder to achieve than expected. Any further Bank assistance for the sector
would depend on the satisfactory implementation of a financial and operational
restructuring program for TEX which has been agreed with the Bank. The Bank's
objectives are to help increase the participation of private investors and
lenders, both domestic and foreign, in the sector (a Bank-financed study to help
update the regulatory framework is underway); to decentralize and eventually
privatize power and gas distributiont and to reduce pollution.
39.   IYC and_HIGA.  IFC continues to maintain a strong pipeline of new
investment projects. It expects to continue to support investments for the
expansion and modernization of existing enterprises, as well as new joint
ventures designed to bring in foreign capital and know-how. In addition, IFC
will continue to explore opportunities to support companies that are
fundamentally efficient, but because of inappropriate debt strategies are in
need of financial restructuring to regain commercial health. IFC also intends
to continue to explore opportunities for the privatization of SOEs, and for the
financing of local private sector power generation and transmission facilities.
In the area of capital markets, tIC will help create institutions to deepen
domestic debt and equity markets and will help Turkish companies access
international capital markets. Turkey joined NIGA in 1988, and has been one of
the more active countries for MIGhA' guarantee program. MIGh has insured four
projects in Turkey in the airline catering, banking, and tobacco industries.
The airline catering project was a privatization, and one of the banking
projects constituted the first time the HIGA issued insurance to an investor
from a Category 2 country (Saudi Arabia). To date, NIGA has registered six
projects in Turkey, including the aforementioned projects. Including
commitments, MIGA's exposure in Turkey - US$84.5 million - is the second highest
after Argentina.
40.   IMF. Between 1980 and 1985, Turkey's economic program was supported by
the IMF through a series of stand-by arrangements. Repayments to the IMF were
completed in 1990. Following the liberalization of the capital account in 1989,
Article VIII consultations for full convertibility were successfully concluded
in March 1990. Discussions with the Government for the last Article IV
consultations were held in November 1992.



-13-
Portfolio Manaoament
41.   Implementation problems in Turkey are reflected in both the build-up of
the undisburoed portfolio of Bank loans and the weakness of the project pipeline
an the thrust of the program has shifted away from fast-disbursing adjustment
operations to investment lending. Improvements in implementation and management
capacity are essential if the sectoral interventions included in the Bank's
program are to materialize. At the general level, we are engaging the
Government through regular country implementation reviews, covering both generic
portfolio issues as well as project specific issues, highlighting the need to
streamline time-consuming Government procedures and focussing on preparation
work upstream to strengthen the project pipeline. Given the impact of
procurement delays on Bank-financed activities, we are working with the
Government to streamline procurement procedures.  Improvements in public sector
management will continue to be an integral element of our lending activities.
In providing support to improve the capabilities of sectoral agencies, care is
being taken to ensure that the technical assistance is tailored to the agencies'
needs. We intend to further intensify supervision, building on the success in
this area through the recruitment of local staff with the relevant technical
skills in the Resident Mission. In addition to supporting sectoral agencies'
efforts to build up a project pipeline, we will minimize project complexity to
ensure that the capacities of implementing agencies are not overburdened, and
reduce the proliferation of project agencies.
42.   Drawing on the annual country implementation review process which is now
in its third year, the Government and the Bank are taking steps to improve the
health of the existing portfolio. Problem projects, with continued non-
compliance with agreed policy and institutional measures and minimal prospects
for improvement, have been restructured or cancelled. Extensions of closing
dates are subject to more rigorous criteria than previously. Procurement
problems are being dealt with more expeditiously than hitherto, in part because
we have built up requisite expertise in the field.
43.   In the process of strengthening portfolio management, we are placing
emphasis on the following actions:
o      continuing to press for the standardization of bid documents
together with translations (currently the cause of inordinate
implementation delays) t
o      working together with core and line agencies to ensure the
availability of adequate levels of counterpart funding on a timely
basis (this problem has become more acute in recent years because
of the persistence of large fiscal deficits);
o      continuing to tailor technical assistance to upgrade the
management and administrative capabilities of implementing units
and agencieol
o      instituting the increasing use of mid-term reviews under
individual projects to benefit from experience on the ground and
facilitate any course correction which might be needed;
o      promoting the practice of developing annual work programs and
procurement plans;



-14-
o      for future projects, allowing longer lead times as necessary to
synchronize Bank processing with Government preparation and
processing.
Areas of Special EmDhasis
44.   Private Sector Develonment.  The continued development of Turkey's private
sector remains a central objective of the Bank's operational strategy. The
Government needs to facilitate private investment, while at the same time,
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of public investment. Accordingly,
in our policy dialogue, as well as our analytical support and lending
activities, we will continue to focus on the need to enhance the enabling
environment for private investment. This would require the consistent pursuit
of policies designed to achieve macroeconomic stability, efficient financial
intermediation, and the disengagament of the Government from directly productive
activities while utilizing the public expenditure program to alleviate
institutional and infrastructure constraints to sustained private sector-led
growth.
45.   Human Canital Development and Poverty Alleviation.  The Government is
concerned that insufficient attention has been given to human resource
development in the past qiven policy-makers' preoccupation with difficult
economic issues. There is also growing recognition that sustained high growth
will ultimately depend on the extent to which there is an enduring reduction in
poverty. The strategy which the Bank is advocating and supporting includes:
raising the demand for labor through high economic growth; increasing the
productive assets of the poor by directing a larger proportion of public
expenditures for human capital development, in particular, by restructuring
social spending in favor of primary education and health services; and by
providing an effective social services system (including income and employment
support services, social security mechanisms, and a carefully targeted social
safety net), especially for those most adversely affected by the reform process.
46.   Women In Develonment. To provide the Government with a basis for an
agenda to enhance the participation of women in Turkey's economic development
process, the Bank has just completed a report on Women in Development. The main
focus of the report is on increasing and raising the quality of women's
participation in the labor force. Recommendations include measures to enhance
women's labor skills and income-earning potential through education, technical
training and credit; and to open their access to higher paying jobs. Beyond the
sector work, we plan to engage the Government on the need to formulate and
implement a sufficiently broad agenda for action to help women avail themselves
of development oi_portunities. Meanwhile, in addition to ongoing and proposed
projects to upgrade primary education and basic health services (which benefit
women), a recently approved Employment and Training project includes a pilot
action and research program specifically designed to promote women's productive
employment.
47.   Environment. The Government and the public are concerned that Turkey is
facing serious and increasing environmental challenges. To lay the basis for
sustainable development, the newly created Ministry of Environment is drawing up
a program of institutional and policy reforms and initiating action to integrate
environmental issues and associated investment needs fully into the public
investment program. The Ministry's efforts are being supported by a METAP-
financed environmental institutions study. In addition, the first cycle of



-15-
METaP-supported activities includes coastal zone management, environmental
finance, maritime and municipal pollution control, and the management of natural
and cultural resources at a regional level. Support for the preparation of a
national environmental strategy and action plan is envisaged in the second cycle
of METAP. The Bank's financial support for the onvironment encompasses a wide
range of activities including soil and land management, forest conservation and
management, and measures to control pollution, particularly in the urban and
industrial sectors. An innovative project for the conservation of genetic
resources under GEF, and a project to phase out ozone depleting substances under
the Montreal Protocol are also being launched. Turkey is also an active
participant in a regional GEF program for the protection of the Black sea in
line with the Bucharest Convention.
Summary
48.   Success in realizing the potential of Turkey's dynamic private sector, and
setting the economy firmly on the path of private sector-led growth, requires
the sustained implementation of stabilization and adjustment measures. The
first step would be & significant reduction of the budget deficit through long-
term structural measures, in particular, with respect to the divestiture and
restructuring of SOEs. Second, the Government needs to broaden anJ deepen its
implementation capacity in readiness for the more management intensive sectoral
reforms as the program matures beyond macroeconomic reforms. Finally, the
Government needs to address human resource development, poverty, regional
disparities, and environmental issues, which will ultimately determine the
economic and social sustainability of the program.
49.   The Bank's strategy aims to promote the dialogue regarding the need for a
sustained reduction of the fiscal deficit and inflation. Unless significant up
front action is taken to reduce the budget deficit as part of a credible
stabilization program to restore domestic macroeconomic balances, the focus of
the Bank's program would be narrowed to include mostly the following sectors:
urban infrastructure (primarily water supply and sanitation), human resources,
and the environment. At the same time, through well-focussed economic and
sector work, we plan to be in readiness for a build-up of Bank lending in the
event that the Government introduces policies to create the conditions necessary
for sustained growth.
50.   Progress will be imeasured against the following criteria: the adoption,
and successful implementation, by the Government of policies to restore a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework, especially as it affects the private
sector investment response and a reduction of the role of the state in directly
productive investmentsl progress in reducing poverty and providing basic social
services to the poor; progress in tackling environmental issues; and the success
of efforts to strengthen management capacity and improve implementation
performance.
PART IIIs THE PROJECT
51.   Background.  Greater Bursa is the fifth largest Turkish city with a
population of 840,000 in 1990, and has the highest rate of population growth
(5*S percent per year).  The city is a large industrial center with established
industries based on agriculture and textiles, and new industries such as vehicle
matufacture, machinery production and food processing. It is also a tourist



-16-
attraction because of its rich historical past, its natural hot springs and
winter sport facilities. In 1989, total bed capacity reached 9,000.
52.   Water supply and sewerage services in Bursa are provided by a municipal
authority (BUSKI), with moderate private sector involvement (meter reading and
billing, and meter repair and installation). 90 percent of the population is
served by water supply connections, and 70 percent by sewerage connections.
Domestic and industrial wastewater is currently discharged without any treatment
into the nearest streams, which empty into the Sea of Marmara (20 km away from
Bursa), which is already under environmental pressure as a result of rapid
industrialization in the area (Istanbul, Izmit, Bursa). Pollutants have degraded
water quality in surface and ground water and have contributed to degrade the
Sea of Marmara. This has had negative impacts on water supply, fisheries,
health, and recreation. The efficiency in the provision of water and sewerage
services is low. This is highlighted by the excessively high level (63 percent)
of non-revenue water due to physical leaks, administrative losses (illegal
connections, under-registration of meters, etc.), and free water for certain
public uses. This results in the excessive and uneconomic use of water and puts
pressure for premature development of new water resources.
53.   Solid waste services are provided by the Municipality.  Domestic solid
waste is disposed in an open dump site where garbage is left uncovered; and
industrial and clinical solid wastes are disposed with poor regard to the
environment or to public safety.
54.   Proiect Obiectives.  The main objectives of the proposed project are tos
(i) improve environment conditions and reduce health hazards in Greater Bursa;
(ii) improve the management of municipal water supply, sewer services, and of
domestic, industrial and clinical solid wastes; (iii) meet the demand for water
supply, sewerage, flood protection and solid waste services, including the
demand from the poor, living on the fringes of the city; (iv) postpone the need
to develop new water resources by increasing the efficiency of water usage by
reducing the volume of non-revenue water; and, (v) implement appropriate cost
recovery policies.
55.   Proiect Description. The project has two distinct parts. The water supply,
sewerage and storm water part with: (i) water supply works needed to renovate,
rehabilitate, and extend the existing systeml (ii) sewerage works needed to
extend the collection networks, reconstruct sewer connections, and treat
wastewater in two plants; (iil) storm water drainage works needed to
rehabilitate the existing networks, and extend the collection system in flood
areas; and (iv) technical assistance for project implementation (engineering
services and Project Management) and for institutional development (reduction of
unaccounted-for water, training, asset management system, management and
information system, tariff study and feasibility of leasing arrangements).
56.   The  solid waste part consists of: (i) rehabilitation of the existing dump
site, development of a new landfill site, construction of a waste transfer
station; (ii) vehicles and containers to collect waste, including incineration
of clinical waste; and (iii) technical assistance for project implementation
(engineering services) and for institutional development (establishment of a
regulatory unit, separate management of solid waste, separate collection and
treatment of clinical and industrial waste, and contracting out of part of
domestic waste collection).



-17-
57.   The combined cost of the two parts of the project is estimated at US$258.4
million equivalent (exoluding Interest during construction); US$235.4 million
for the water supply, storm drainage and sewerage part, and US$23.0 million for
the solid waste part. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in
Schedule A. Amounts and method of procurement and of disbursements, and the
disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key processing
events and the status of Bank Group operations in Turkey are given in Schedules
C and D, respectively. Maps are also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report is
being distributed separately.
58.   Proiect Implementation. The Project will be managed by a Project
Management Unit (P1U) headed by a high level expert already hired since the
beginning of the implementation of the feasibility studies.  The PMU Director is
experienced in project Management and with Bank's procedures and guidelines.
The PMU will be assisted in BUSKI by the Planning and Investment Department
which is planning and managing directly BUSKI's routine investments and in the
Solid Waste Department of the Bursa Metropolitan Municipality (BMM) by the New
Works Division. These Departments have never implemented large investments and
they would not be able to attract qualified experts because of the low level of
salary offered by the institutions. The PMU was recently reinforced by a
qualified engineer and a qualified financial professional. The role of these
specialists will be to assist BUSKI's and B5M1s management in following up
progress made in implementing the measures required for the entity's operational
and financial improvement, and to recommend specific actions to achieve the
targets.
$9.   Lessons Learned from Previous  Bank Involvement.  The Bank has collaborated
successfully with the municipal authority of Istanbul for water supply and
sewerage projects (Loans 844-TU and 2159-TU), and is presently assisting water
supply and sewerage authorities in Istaalbul, Ankara, and rzmir. Bank
involvement in the sector has been generally successful in meeting the physical
targets for the projects, and in encouraging the Government to establish
municipal water companies. The proposed project, building on the experience of
previous projects, contains a major institutional development component. Other
lessons learned from the previous projects are the need for technical assistance
for project management, less optimistic projections of water sales and
implementation schedules, full political commitment to necessary tariff
increases, timely availability of detailed designs, and better audit of the
authority's financial accounts. The proposed project takes into account the
above lessons.
60.   Rationale for Bank Involvement.  Major environmental inadequacies in the
largest rapidly growing cities of Turkey are lack of sewage treatment,
inadequate water supply and poor air quality. Air quality will be improved since
coal is being gradually replaced by gas for heating. Water and sanitation remain
a top urban priority as present quality of service severely constrains urban
productivity (health, industry, tourism, commerce) and entails major
environmental damage.
61.   The semi-autonomous status of the Water Supply and Sewerage Authorities in
Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir, established with Bank support, provides a valid
institutional model for Bursa. This approach maximizes the self-financing
effort of the utilities, their sense of ownership and responsibility, their
autonomy, their efficiency, and results in a rapid diminution, in each of these
cities, of the role of Central Government agencies such as Iller Bank and the



-18-
State Hydraulic Works (DSI) which remain encumbered with a wide range of
financial, manageoment and institutional problems.
62.   Continued Bank support to the sector is required on several accounts.
Lirst, to ensure that the newly created water companies enjoy adequate support
to develop their managerial, technical and financial capabilities to levels
which allow them to provide adequate services at economic costs and affordable
prices. The experience in Turkey shows that this is a major undertaking and
that the Bank is in a position to provide effective support to priority agencies
for institutional development.   second, the Bank in its country assistance
strategy has agreed with the Government on the need to support projects which
protect the environment, promote sustainable use of natural resources, and
strengthen local institutions' capacity to achieve these objectives in a
financially sustainable way. Because of its emphasis on critical environmental
issues, sustainability of municipal institutions and urban health and poverty
issues, this project was accorded highest priority by the Government and the
Bank.
63.   Aareed Actions.  The following principal agreements have been reachedt
a. BUSKI and the BMM will maintain an experienced Project Management Unit
Director and two specialists in the Project Management Unit;
b. BUSKI will maintain a system of automatic quarterly tariff adjustments
to compensate for inflation of the past quarter and ensure a
satisfactory pace of project implementation.
c. BUSi will carry out an action l.lan, with and agreed timetable,
covering the 1993-2000 period, for the implementation of the project
components aiming at improving the entit7's managerial, operational and
financial performance. The plan consists ofs (i) annual updating
BUSKVIs operational and financial projections for the 1993-2000 period;
(ii) designing and implementing a training program for BUSKI's managers
and staff; (iii) designing and implementing a program to increase the
volume of water billed as a proportion of water produced; (iv)
designing and implementing an Asset and Capital Investment Nanagement
Systems (v) designing and implementing a Management Information System;
(vi) designing and implementing a now water and sewerage tariff
schedule; and (vii) implementing the feasibility study for a
contractual arrangement, after bidding, with a private firm for partial
or full operation of Bursa's water supply and sewerage systems. Not
later than May 31, 1993 BUSKI will exchange views with the Bank on the
progress made toward implementation of the action plan, and not later
than July 1, 1993, take all necessary measures to meet the requirements
for the 1993 capital expenditures. Then, not later than September 30 of
each year, BUSKI will exchange views with the Bank on the progress made
toward implementation of the action plan and BUSKXIs initial proposal
for updating the plan. Not later than November 30 of each year, DUSKI
will provide to the Bank a new proposal for an updated plan, if the
initial proposal was not satisfactory and thereafter carry out the
updated plan as modified in agreement with the Bank. The updated plan
will in particular indicate any tariff increases in real terms -- i.e.
over and above the quarterly adjustment -- needed to be implemented at
the beginning of each of the next four quarters in order to achieve the
revenue covenants indicated below in (Q) and (f)p



-19-
d. The aMM will carry out an action plan, with timetable, covering the
1993-2000 period, for a major restructuring of the organizational
arrangements for solid waste management. The plan includes: (i) the
creation of a regulatory body within the Metropolitan Municipality to
oversee and enforce environmental laws and regulations relating to the
safe and proper disposal of solid and liquid wastes; (ii) the creation
of a municipal operational corporation responsible for providing
services for the management of household waste collections, clinical
waste collections, industrial waste collections, and landfill site
operations; and (iii) the contracting out of at least part of the
collection service. Not later than September 30 of each year, the BMM
will exchange views with the Bank on progress made toward its
implementation.
e. BUSKI will produce funds for investment internally generated during the
current year, the previous year, and the f^'.lowing year equivalent to
ne' less than 50 percent of BUSKI's aggregate capital expenditures
incurred during the current, the previous year, and expected to be
incurred during the following year.
f. BUSKI and the BMN will take measures acceptable to the Bank to mitigate
the project's environmental impact.
g. As a condition of effectiveness of the Loans, the consultants for
provision of technical assistance regarding institutional development
through twinning arrangements would have to be selected by BUSKI and
the Municipalities. This is progressing well and is presently
estimated to be achieved by the end of May 1993.
64.  Envirgonmeal As2octs.  The environmental components of the project
(sewerage, sewage treatment, stormwater, and solid waste) amount to 70% of the
total project cost. The project's overall environmental impact will be highly
positive since it will (i) postpone the need to develop new water resources;
(Li) improve the water quality of streams and reduce contamination of
groundwater and seawater; (iii) reduce the incidence of flooding in Bursa; and,
(iv) improve solid waste collection and disposal. The project components which
have specific environmental impacts are two sewage treatment plants, and the new
solid waste disposal landfill. Znvironmental control measures have been taken
into account in the site selection and preliminary design of the project.
Measures to mitigate the project environmental impacts during detailed design
and construction have been agreed.
65.  The basic legislation required to control waste discharges in sewers,
watercourses, and landfill sites is in place. Under the Water Pollution
Regulations, national water quality objectives for inland waters have been
defined with four classes of water quality, from class I for high quality water
to class IV for highly polluted water. In Bursa, untreated wastewater discharges
result in gros pollution of the Nilufer River and, downstream of the city, its
water quality corresponds to class IV. In order to prevent public health risks
and odor within the environs of the city, protect groundwater sources for water
supply, allow downstream water use by industry and agriculture, and lessen the
level of pollution in the Sea of Marmara, the water quality of the Nilufor River
downstream of the city should be in class II. However, the class II objective
is only affordable in the long term. The project is therefore designed to
achieve the intermediate objectives of roducing of gross pollution in the short



-20-
term although still in the class IV range, and attaining a class III standard
for the medium term. The project provides an example of how the national water
quality objectives can be progressively reached within the framework of the
National Water Pollution Regulations.
66.    The land areas requ .red for the construction of the new landfill and the
two sewage treatment plants are agricultural and uninhabited. The procedures to
acquire the lots owned by private owners and to compensate them are consistent
with normal Turkish practice and are acceptable to the Bank. Acquisition is
proceeding satisfactorily and has not given rise to difficulties in on-going
operations.
67.   Benfits. The project would have major benefits stemming froms (i)
improved operational efficiency of BUSKI and of the solid waste management by
the Municipality; (ii) promotion of local resource mobilization and cost
recovery; (iii) reduction in the health hazards to the local and tourist
population through better water supply, sewerage and solid waste management
services; (iv) reduction of losses in property and labor productivity resulting
from frequent flooding; and (v) improvement of environmental conditions through
primary treatment of sewage and t 'ustrial wastewater, rehabilitation of the
existing dump site, and controlled collection of clinical and industrial solid
wastes.
68.   Proieot Risks and Sustainabilitv.  The project risks relate tos (i)
institutional weakness of the borrowers for timely project implementation; and
(Ui) sustaining the willingness and ability of local authorities to adopt
resource mobilization and cost recovery measures necessary to generate
sufficient counterpart funds. To mitigate the first risk and to contribute to
the institutional sustainability of the project, its design includes an
important technical assistance component which is already underway. To mitigate
the second risk and to contribute to the financial sustainability of the
project, a system of quarterly automatic tariff adjustments based on price
indices to compensate for inflation was adopted, a project management unit was
established, and a periodical review and the implementation of Action Plans
specifying time bound actions necessary to further improve efficiency and
financial performance of the borrowers were confirmed at negotiations and
covenanted in the Loan Agreements. The borrowers demonstrated a strong
commitment to implement agreed actions during project preparation and
reconfirmed their continued commitment during loan negotiations.
69.  Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loans.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 8, 1993



-21-
SibcshMl-A
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FPIANCING PLAN
Estimate,d Proiect Costs
Zoal ,FIei g Total
----USs$ Milliln---
Water Sumlv & SewsraGe Part
Water Supply Works                                     15.3    6.6   21.9
Storm Drainage Works                                   10.3    5.3   15.6
Sa-werage Works                                        14.2    6.3  20.5
Sewage Treatment                                       18.4   25.9   44.3
Water supply & sewerage Equipment                       0.0  30.7  30.7
Consultant Services                                     7.6   10.3   17.9
PPP Advance for Water & Sewerage                        0.5    0.6    1.1
Land Acquisition                                       11.     0.0 , 11.9
Total Base Costs (June, 1992)                          78.2   85.7  163.9
contingencies                                          40.5   31.0 1 71.S
Grand Total                                           118.7  116.7  235.4
MiM2_   M=
Solid Waste Part
Existing Site Rehabilitation                            0.6    0.2    0.8
New Waste Disposal site                                 2.6    2.1    4.7
Waste Transfer station                                  0.5    2.0    2.5
Waste Collection & Transport                            0.0    1.8    1.8
Clinical Waste Incinerator                              0.6    1.6    2.2
Consultant Services                                     1.4    1.3    2.7
PPP Advance for Solid Waste                             0.2    0.2    0.4
Land Acquisition                                        1.2    0.0 Q  1.2
Total Base Costs (June, 1992)                           7.1    9.2   16.3
contingencies                                           3.4    3.3   _6.
Grand Total                                            10.5   12.5   23.0
S513  m_St in=38
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                    129.2  129.2  258.4
mm, .. ==.    ==. R
Note: Local prices include about 9% of taxes and duties
Vinancina Plan:
Local E=gian Total
------US$ Million---
IBRD Loans                                              -    129.5  129.5
Internal Cash Generation (BUSKI,BMM)                   128.9   -    128.9
Total                                                  128.9 129,S  28.4



-22-
Schedtule_B
Page I of 2
kPgourement Method and Disburzeents
(Us$ million equivalent)
A. ProCuremeMt
Project Element                                              Procurement Method
Total
ICe        LCB        Other        NPf       Cost
1. Works
1.1 Water Supply. Stonmater and Sewerage           138.4       15.6                               154.0
(64.7)     (7.3)                              (72.0)
1.2 Solid Uaste                                     5.0         2.?                                7.7
(2.4)      (1.3)                              (3.7)
2. Goods
2.1 Pipeworks                                       38.4       0.3                                38.7
(18.0)     (0.1)                              (18.1)
2.2 Water and Sewerage Naintenance Equipment         1.8                    1.2 a/                 1.7
(0.8)                  (0.6)                  (1.4)
2.3 Solid Waste Transfer & Disposal Equipment        3.7                                           3.7
(1.8)                                         (1.8)
2.4 Solid Waste Collection & Tr3nsport Equipment     2.5                                           2.5
(1.2)                                         (1.2)
2.5  Clinical Incinerator                            3.3                                           3.3
(1.6)                                         (1.6)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Technicat Assistance for Project                                        16.7 b/               16.7
Implementation in BUSKI                                                (16.7)                 (16.7)
3.2 Technical Assistance for Project                                         1.3 bl                1.3
lIplementation in the lunicipality                                      (1.3)                 (1.3)
3.4 Technical Assistance for Institutional                                   7.7 b/                7.7
Building in BUSKI                                                       (7.7)                 (7.7)
3.5 Technical Assistance for Institutional                                   2.5 b/                2.5
Building of solid waste activity within OM                               (2.5)                  (2.5)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Refinancing PPF                                                          1.5 b/                1.5
(1.5)                 (1.5)
4.2 Land Acquisition                                                                    15.8      15.8
Total                                                  193.1       18.6        30.9         15.8      258.4
(90.5)     (8.?)       (30.3)                (129.5)
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank toans. Nutmers may not add up
due to rwnding.
Other: a/ International shopping ($0.6 m) and Local shoping ($0.6 m)
bI Consultants will be hired according to Bank's uConsultant Guidelines".
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.



-23-
Schedule 8
Page 2 of 2
Loan to BUSKI
Amount of the Loan Atlocated
(Expressed in USS Eguivalent)           X of Expenditures
CateIBrX                                                             to be Financed
(1)    Civil Works                                         67,000,000                     47X
(2)    Goods                                                18.000.000                    47X
(3)    Technical Assistance
Ca) Engineering & PMU                                 10,000,000                     100%
(b) Investigation,
Survey and Mapping                                 4,000,000                     100X
(c) Institutional Strengthening
& Training                                         8.000,000                     100%
(4)    Refunding of Project
Preparation Facility                                  1,100,000
C5)    Unallocated                                          8.900.000
Total                                              117,000,000
Loan to Municiealitv
Amount of the Loan Allocated
(Expressed in US$ Ecuivalent)             % of Expenditures
Category                                                             to be Financed
C1)    Civil Works                                        3,400,000                      48X
(2)    Goods                                              4.300,000                       48%
(3)    Technical Assistar-.
(a) Engineering & PMU                                1.500.000                      100X
lb) Institutional
Improvement
& Training                                       1,900,000                      1008
(4)    Refunding of ProJect
Preparation Facility                                 400,000
(5)    Unallocated                                        1,000,000
Totat                                             12.500,000
Estimated Disbursement Schedule:
I1RD Fiscal Year
3 1994   1995    1996    1997    1998                  2000      2001
------------ -----------*IUS$ millions-------------------
Annual              0.0      10.1    10.9    14.2    21.1    20.3          26.1      22.1       4.7
Cumutative          0.0      10.1    21.0    35.2    56.3    76.6         102.7     124.8     129.5



-24-
Schedule C
Timetable of Kea Project Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:              Fifteen months
(b)   Prepared by:                        BUSKI and Bursa Metropolitan
Municipality with the assistance of
consultants.
(c)   First Bank Mission:                 March 1991
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure2         June 25, 1992
(e)   Negotiations:                       January 19, 1993
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:      Mid-June 1993
(g)   List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:    PPAR 4853 (Istanbul Water Supply)
PPAR 1082 (Istanbul Sewerage Project)



-25-                                                   Schedule O
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(AsofDecember3l. 109
Amount (Smlllon)
Fiscal                                                                        (less cancellations)
Loan No.      Year  Sorrower                       Purpose                             Bank      IDA   Undliburied
Seventy-nine loans. six 8-loans and 14 credts have been fully disbursed,              6743.86  196.16
of which SECALs, SALs and Program LV-ris: a/
Ln. 1818-TU    1980   Republic of Turkey           SAL                                 200.00                0.00
Ln. 1915-TU    1981   Republic of Turkey           SAL                                  76.00                0.00
Ln. 1987-TU    1981   Republic of Turkey           SAL II                              300.00                0.00
Ln. 2158-TU    1082   Republic of Turkey           SAL III                             304.50                0.00
Ln. 2321-TU    1983   Repubilc of Turkey           SAL IV                              300.80                0.00
Ln. 2441-TU    1984   Repubilo of Turkey           SAL V                               376.00                0.00
Ln. 2580-TU    1985   Republic of Turkey           ASAL                                260.19                0.00
Ln. 2714-TU    1986   Republic of Turkey           FSAL I                              300.00                0.00
Ln. 80160-TU   1987   Repubilc of Turkey           B-Loan for PSAL 1                    32.26                0.00
Ln. B019C-TU   1987   Republic of Turkey           B-Loan for FSAL I                    20.00                0.00
Ln. 80220-TU   1988   Repubilc of Turkey           B-Loan for ESAL                      30.59                0.00
Ln.80240-TU   1989   Repubilc of Turkey            B-Loan for FSAL It                   29.68                0.00
Subtotal                                                                  2219.01                0.00
Ln.240S-TU    1984   Repubitc of Turkey            Agricultural Extension and Research  72.20               13.83
Ln. 2433-TU    1084   Republic -f Turkey           IAES IrIgation                      11530                 4.62
Ln. 2535-TU    1985   Republic of Turkey           Third Ports                         129.50               08.95
Ln. 2536-TU    1985   Republic of Turkey           Indusrial Schools                    57.70               28.73
Ln. 2602-TU    1986   TEK                          Power Systems Operations AssL       140.00               72.29
Ln. 2847-TU    1986   Republic of Turkey           Small- & Medium-Scale industry      100.00                1.03
Ln. 266-TU    1086   Republic of Turkey            Kayraktepe Hydropower               200.00              179.27
Ln. 2863-TU    1986   Republic of Turkey           Drainage & On-Farm Development      265.00              160.52
Ln.2739-TU    1987   Republic of Turkey            Railways i                          197.00               26.80
Ln.2750-TU    1987   Republic of Turkey            Sir Hydropower                      132.00                0.71
in. 2776-TU    1987   Repubiic of Turkey           Non-Formal Vocational Trainng       58.50               42.21
Ln. 2818-TU    1987  IZSU                          Izmir Water & Sewerage              184.00              127.32
Ln. 2810-TU    1987   Republic of Turkey           Cukurova Urban Development           28.50                7.38
* Ln. 28e-TU    1987   Republic of Turkey             Energy Sector Adjustment            325.00               20.79
Ln. 2888-TU    1988  ISKI                          Istanbul Water Supply               218.00              101.76
L'n. 2901-TU    1988   TSKB, SYKB and              Industrial Export Development       300.00               12.54
Republic of Turkey
Lin. 2922-TU    1088   Republic of Turkey          Industrial Training II              115 80               58.86
Ln. 2984-TU    1988   Republic of Turkey             Financia Sector Adjustment It       400.00              100.00
Ln. 3057-TU    1989   Republic of Turkey           Health                               75.00               69.59
Ln. 3087-TU    1989   Republic of Turkey           Small- & Medium-Scale Industry II   204.50               76.72
Ln.3077-TU    i9S9   Republic of Turkey            A4ro-lndustry                       150.00              100.32
Ln. 3090-TU    1989   Republic of Turkey           Third Agricultural Credit           179.29                0.22
Lin. 3151-TU   108   ASMi                         Ankara Sewerage                     173.00              165.27
Ln.3177-TU    190   Republic of Turkey             Second Agricultural Extension        63.00               44.28
Ln. 3192-TU    1090   Republic of Turkey           National Education                   90.20               88.12
Ln. 3296-TU    1991   Republic of Turkey           Technology Development              100.00               05.92
Ln. 3324-TU    1091   Republic of Turkey           State & Provincial Roads            300.00              200.20
Ln. 3340-TO    1991   TEK                          TEK Restruturing                    300.00              300.00
Ln.3340-TU    1991   Republic of Turkey            PiWate invesment CrodIt             200.00              193.78
Lin. 3472-TU    1992   Republic of Turkey          Agricultural Research                65.00                55.00
Ln. 3476-TU    1992   Republic of Turkey           Berko Hydropower                    270.00              263.44
Ln.3477-TO    1902   RepubilcotTurkey              Treasury ata Systems                  9.20                6.49
Lin. 3511-TU    1993   Repubic of Turkey           Earthquake Reconstruction           285.00              258.00
in. 3541-TU    1093   Republic of Turkey           Employment &Tranhng bI               67.00               67.00
Total                                                           11293S4   106.15    3101.96
Of which has been repaid                                        3521.10   48.46
Tot now outstanding                                              7772.44   147.70
Amounts sold                                             3.55
of which has been repaid                                 3.58
Total now held by IBRD                                           7768.89
Total Undhsbursed                                                                    3101M
al Approved during or after FY80.
bl Not yet effective.
I SEGAL



-29-                                                        Schedule 0
Page 2 of 2
THE STATUS OF iANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
S. STATEMENT OF IPf INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31.1992)
Amount (Smillione)
(less cancella-on)
Oats                             Botrower                Purpose                                   Loan    equity       Totai
196871/72                       Sites                    Textils                                   3.16      1.94       5.09
1973                            Akdeniz                  Toudsm                                    0.33      0.27       0.60
1974                            Aksa                     Textiles                                 10.00      0.00      10.00
1975                            Asian                    Cement manufacturing                     10.60      0.00      10.60
1975                            Kaitaltope               TexIles                                   1.30     0.00        1.30
1076                             saga                    Resin & Plastio manufacturing            18.00      0.00      16.00
197417                          Borusan                  Iron & Steel                              3.60      0.50       4.10
197679                          Alsl Celik               Machinery & equipment                    12.00      5.82      17.82
1979                            Ego Mosan                Motorcycles & bcycles                     2.15     0.00        2.15
1980                            Momes                    Tites                                     4.00      0.00       4.00
1932                            Man Motors               Motor Vehicles                            7.89      0.00       7.89
l96467I1W2/73I7e1671$0J83       TSKB                     OFO                                      60.00      5.93      65.93
1970I7'182183                   Viking                   Paper manufacturing                       2.50      0.87       3.37
10761781813                     Ooktas                   Iron & Stel                               7.60      2.85      10.3s
1984                            Pinar                    Slaughtering                              3.90     0.00        3.90
1988                            Manse                    Motor Vehicles                            0.47      0.00       6.47
1979180/82I4I85                 lsas                     Metals & motor vehIcles                   5.88      4.59      13.44
1986                            Cam Eiya1                Glass manufacturing                       7.94      0.00       7.94
1987                            Guney                    Textiles                                 16.48      0.00      16.48
1988                            Elbo                     Steam & Hot Water supply                 26.44      0.00      25.44
ion8                             Eginkan                 Mfg. Non-Meteio Mineral PR               16.45      0.00      16.46
1989                            Coats Iplik              Textiles Wearing Apparel S Leather        7.72      0.00       7.72
1989                            Dlsbank                  Commercial banks                         60.00      0.00      60.00
1989                            Ousa                     Textilee                                 25.00      0.00      25.00
1989                            lsko                     Textiles                                 33.24      0.00      33.24
1989                            Sanko                    Textile                                   6.37     0.00        6.37
1989                            Sardilbe                 Rstaurants & hotels                       2.68      2.15       4.81
1981189                        lKridarell                Glass manubatudng                        33.42      0.00      33.42
198e80                          Eska Turlan              Tourism                                   9.08      0.00       9.08
1990                            Conrad                   Restaurants & hotels                     48.50     4.C0       52.50
19S0                            FSP (Kamelys)            Restaurants & hotels                     12.09      0.00      12.09
1990                            Meruin                   Restaurant & hotels                      12.50     0.00       12.50
1990                            Simplot                  Food products                             9.40      0.00       9.40
19o0                            TKF                      Merchant bank                             0.00      8.86       8.86
197048790                       ACS Glass                Glass manufacturng                       20.79      3.84      24.63
1971 tJ7344/8M0                 Nasas                    Metal nanufacturng                        8.87      1.85      10.42
19890                           Silkar                   Tourism                                  24.17      4.91      29.08
1988/90                         IGFK                     Leasing                                   0.00      1.20       1.20
19899                            Iras Hotel              Resaurants & hotels                      13.03      0.00      13.03
1091                            Kepez Eleotri            Utlties                                  25.00      0.00      28.00
1991                            Kula                     TextIles                                 19.40      0.00      19.40
1979181318418991               Trakya Cam               Glass manufacturing                      88.63     1.73      104.36
1992                            Abn-zaolbasl             8mal-& Medilum-Scae Entrprises            0.00      0.00       6.00
1992                            Flnansbank               Small- & Medium-Scae Enterprises         30.60      0.00      30.60
1992                            Helier Facteong          bqxort Finance                            0.00      0.0        0.50
1992                            Korfezbanck               ma- & Medium-ScaleiEterprises           24.40      0.00      24.40
1992                            MiSut _syl              DOaryProducts                             10.00      6.00      16.00
1992                            NASCO                    Textles                                  20.00      2.80      22.50
1981192                        Interbank                Multipurpose banks                      130.00      0.00     130.00
1989192                         Ram Dle Ti"et            Or                                       74.75      0.00      74.75
1991/92                         Koy Tur                  Slaughterng                               8.60      4.13      12.73
1993                            0ldor                    RadiorlVCommunmesion                      4.00      1.00       5.00
1993                            Sise ve Cam              Glass manufaturing                       20.81      0.00      20.81
1993                            Medya                    Printing. Publishing & Allied Ind.       12.13      0.00      12.13
Total Grss Commitment                                          1028A1      78.43    1104.84
Less Cancellations. Termination Exchangs
Adjustments, Prepaymnents and Sales                            609.12    41.45     850.67
Total Commimnts now held by IFO                                 417.29    36.98      484.27
Total Undisbursed IFC                                            15.45      1.39      16.84
Total Outstanding IFC                                           401.84     35.69     437.43



IBRDU21
o  RiSSAN
T. AGn                                                                                 * . .6  i                      F@EDERAION
IUIOMIA  a~~~~~EOIOA 
j\ fi  )  (t  /   $   2  5    t   TURKEY
WRSA WATER AND SANITATION  \tA
/ IRAQ
S si,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
EDT  fUIURE ESSIING      X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMRP
59 NEW NEIWCtS~~~~~~~~ DISTRICT UCT/ o 25
,E,   3   WEII EELDS  h=3i WUlAN AREAS ~ ~ ~    ~      ~       FAN
TURKEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUC
WRA   ATR* N  SRAtMNT PAll*OANONL PROJECT
WATORMSUPPZI COAMORENT
*  PUMPING STATIONS ~~~~~~~~~ RIVURS AND WAPERCOURYSDIRMUST Ad
NEW NETWORKS  DISTRICT MIJNICIPAIITY UNiTS                                                      2~~~DSTRIC
BURSA WATER ANDSANITATION   NARONALCAPTA
WATER SUPPLY COMPONEN ITERAINLBUDRE
Dw.e. I D-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEMR 9.



IBRD 24151
.  . & FA flV 5 >' RUSS.  4w.1                                       T
I          Ifa?   _tTURKEY
BURSA WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
WASTE WATER COMPONENT,,/                                        D
* PRI R1EEAMEAN                                                                                        IRTTS  ROADS  (  /  <  /  \
-+PROJECT COUECTOES    _C  RlVERS AND OPEN CHANELS                 -/
.EJSsTINGcOLLECrOEs  __ METEOPVLINMuNJCIPAUIY EITS    )                        ULUDAG  MOUNTAINl
-*  FUTURE COIIECTORS  ---- DISIRICE RAUNKICIMY UMIIS   /             > X                                                           o        RItOEDSC
TURK  ANAREAS
BURSA WATER AND SANITAIIONALcPROJEC
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.- __                      D--L-                                                                            -
RSEENATIONAL CAKrONAL IES                                                                           -
KrERNAMONAL MUNDMES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MhdDAq~.yHm
NOEMBERIM f



MRD 241520
T     rtS C-1A  w
TURKEY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRE
WURSA WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT/
STORM WATER COMPONENT                         i                    
-   " PRujc cOLlIrORSS             ROADS                              /.                   /\
-- PRCutCEINTERcErloRs      --  RNERS AND OfZN CHANNEES /\
=   FUIURERS         ---                                                               LILIrdU CNIlh5S/XUUDAG  MOUNTAINo                              l         3 ,
URUN AREAS                                                                                                                     ELOMEThRA
*   NAtlONAL CAPiTAL
----  NAIIONA.L ROINDES                                                                                                5i       h     _ 
_ELI.KNOW 19



tURSA WATER AND  'ANITAllN                                                                                 s                 Sb >GS
t  TUEKEY                                     t                                                                                                                        2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRE
WRSA WATER AND SANEAnON PROJR                      |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DANTA
SOLID WASTE COMPONENT 
FXUECT OUONENTS:                                                  /
-   L@FIU                         -     OD          
S REHABIUWI1ON OF~ DUMAP SITS  _-.~- RVERS AND WATRCURDES      
K   TRAN4SRERSTAION           --  METEOPOUTANMUNICIPAUTY IMTSr
-   POTEN4tIAL FUTUREL NDFliL          SRNRA                                                             UIDGMUTII    2    3    4                                                                   5
UREAN AREAS ~    ~          ~           OSANAZ
*   NATIONAL. CAPITAL
--- INTERNATINONAN  OUNDARIES P
SOLID WASTE COMPONENT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N~IREIP



