Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
Rq,wrt No. 5553
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 607-TA)
March 27, 1985
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distributiou and may be used by recipients only in the perfennsce of
their officiau duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Word Bck autorization.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
DCA        Development Credit Agreemeat
DSA        Dar-Es-Sa]3am School of Accounting
MNE        Ministry of National Education
NAD        National Accountancy Diploma
NBAA       National Board of Accountants and Auditors
NABOCE     National Bookkeeping Certificate
PCR        Project Completion Report
PIS        Project Implementation Section
PMO        Prime Minister's Office
ROA        Rural Development Assistant
UDC&k      Ujamaa Cooperative  Assistants
UPE        Universal Primary Education
VMT        Village Management Technicians
VMTP       Village Management Technician Training Program
First Education Project, Credit No. 45-TA (December 1963)
Second Education Project, Credit No. 149-TA (May 1969)
Third Education Project, Credit No. 232-TA (February 1971)
Fourth Educatioa Project, Credit No. 371-TA (April 1973)
Fifth Education Project, Credit No. 607-TA (January 1976)
Sixth Education Project, Credit No. 861-TA (January 1979)
Seventh Education Project, Credit No. 1056-TA (September 1980)
Tis document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



TANANiIA- FIFTR EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 607-TA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE        ................................................    i
KEY PROJECT DATA    . ................................   i
HIGHLIGHTS ..............................................   vi
1.     SUMOIRY AND RECOMIIENDATIONS .............................    1
II.     INTRODUCTION ............................................    4
III.     PROJECT BACKGROUND ......................................    5
Socio-Economic Setting          .      . ................ ..      5
Development Strategy                     ..                       5
The Education Sector                     ..                       5
Project Formulation                     ..                        6
Project Objectives ....................-                          6
Project Compoen.. ..                                              7
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement.                   7
Covenants .........................        .................    8
IV.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................................    9
General ...........      .....................................    9
Project Management ......................................    9
Physical Implementation .10
Village Management Technician Training Program .10
Secondary School Program .11
Technical Assistance and Fellowships .13
V.     PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ............................-. 14
Project Costs ...........................                        14
Disbursements ..................................... 14



Table of Contents (Continued)                                          Page No
Vi.     PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOME .1.........15
PART A - Village Mangement Technician Training Program..         15
PART B - Secondary School Program        ..........              19
PART C - Special Studies .... .......................            22
Bank Group Performance. .. ....    25
ANNEXES
Annex  1    Organization Chart of the Project Implementation Section   27
Annex  2    PIS Staffing Situation as of February 1983                    28
Annex  3    Structure of the Education System                             29
Annex  4    Comparative Enrollment Data for Public Schools by
Level, Grade, and Sex 1961, 1971, and 1982                  30
Annex  5    Technical Assistance and Costs                                31
Annex  6    Organization Chart of the NBA                                 33
Annex  7    NBAA Accomplishments, 1973-1983                               34
Annex  8    Planned and Actual Project Implementation Schedule            36
Annex  9    Comparative Analysis of Estimated and Actual Areas in
Secondary Schools                                            37
Annex 10    Summary of Total Project Costs by Type of Expenditure         38
Annex 11    Project Costs by Component and Category of Expenditure
Compared with Appraisal Estimates,                            39
Annex 12    Construction Cost Index                                       40
Annex 13    Enrollment and Passes in the VMT Training Courses
per VMTC                                                  41
Annex 14    Simmary of Findings and Recommendations of the
Secondary School Educational Facilities Survey (Extract)  42
Annex 15    Problems with New Construction in General Secondary Schools
Built Under Education V (Extract)                           49
ATTACHMENT I
Comments from the Borrower                                          51



PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
TANZIA  - FIMFT  EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT NO 607-TA
PREFACE
1.        This is a Project Completion Report on the above mentioned
project for which a Credit of US$11.0 million vas approved on December 30,
1975 and which became effective March 23, 1'.76. The Credit was formally
closed on June 30, 1982 as originally anticipated but a further eighteen
wonths was allowed for finalizing accounts. A sun of US$3.9 million
remained undisbursed and vas cancelled on December 30, 1983 when the Credit
Account was closed.
2.        The Borrower did not prepare its own Project Completion Report
(PCR) since this was not stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) but a number of related documents vas made available to the
completion mission and the Project Implementation Section (PIS) was
extremely helpful in assembling all the necessary materials for this
report.
3.       In accordance with the revised procedures for Project Performance
Reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) but the Project was not audited by OED staff.
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and its agencies and coments
received have been taken into account in finalizing the report and are
reproduced as Attachment I.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 607-TA
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Item                                     Appraisal               Actual
Estimate
Total Cost of Project (US$ Million)        15.00                   8.8
Cost Underrun (Z in US$ Terms)         -                    41
Credit Amount (US$ Million)            -                   11.00
Amount Disbursed (US$ Million)                              7.06
Cancelled (US$ Million)                                     3.94
Date Physical Components Completed    June 30, 1981        December 31, 1982
Proportion Completed by Above Date         1OOZ                     65%
Proportion of Time Overrun                                          25Z
Institutional Performance                                      Satisfactory
Other Project Data
Item                             Original Plan             Actual
First Mentioned in Timetable             -                 April 9, 1974
Government's Application                 -                 April 15, 1975
Negotiations                             -                 November 24, 1975
Board Approval                           -                 December 30, 1975
Credit Agreement Date                                      January 29, 1976
Effectiveness Date               April 30, 1976            March 23, 1976
Closing Date                     June 30, 1982             June 30, 1982
Borrower                             United Republic of Tanzania
Executing Agencies                 - Project Implementation Section of the
Ministry of National Education.
- Executive Group of the Prime Minister's
Office.
- National Board of Accounting and
Auditing.
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                      July 1-June 30



id rtsfamtia      Venom       J_   74
Zaminauauu    mA-Voue.  Now. 74              1                 1 1    2         Due 74 O(oteh) W   the
odwi. sAw..
.iD          Apr- 75       3                    1    3    _ a  75 O(oeht) ur  an
NaY                                                       agrlmElturalit.
sa visited thu
th. lFt
p ntata.          S*baso       NaW  75                                          NW  75
AMrualal          IDA          Juas  75            1  1 1  1 1 L                Doc. 73 o(othw) mm a
a5rcauitOurllet
Appraima-  Neavlaw,            Oct- 75                            2                      O(ochur) co..iac.i
NoM.                                                      ot the 7. z  e(t .111
and am aBd.cuL-
Supacwola,                    Jan. 76      1/Z       I    I            I       rob. 76
.             _           J     76.      1        I                 2       Joan74
_ -        Oet. 76       1        1           1    2        vow. 76 O(other) NM a
acconsoatf. The
- awialtad  
_-_                       Ja    77       1        1 1         1    3        rob. 77 O(oCh) Wm  the
C11.1. RAPID
J_ly  77      2        1    1            *       Sopt.7?
_             _           lab- 75        2     I        1           2       NW  7f
_             _           Sept. 73       2     1        1           3       Oct. 78  jolt.: WM. 3
s.coudary' school.
-       _                 Apr  79  I1/2                 1        1 1/2       a 7  .1.cl: &
,urcondary schools
-             -           Oct.  79      2      1        1           4        oW. 79  wIalta: VNT. I
cecoodry School.
_                           Hay  so0      I     L       I           2       Nay  s0  wItrA:Sdcool of
ASoe!    cy.2 Sue.
_                _           Now. S0 s   o 12    1       1           3       Dc  50 so   ZtO9:SChno  of
Accountancy
_                _           Apr- B1       2     1       1           4       Key SI wimitu:Z wilugas
My                                                        (vrm). Schaal f
Accounltancy
_                -           NOr. e1   112-1    1        1    2 2 1/2    oDc. 81 O(othar): Deputy
Ctblf.SAPED * Fn_.
mmmaguouot Spac.
wIaitc:SCbhoo  of
AccountICy.2 Sec.
School.
may  82       3     1  1   1            3       June t52  w±ite:Sciool of
Acconocanty.2 Sea.
Oct. 82   1 112    I                            Jo_ S3  t.Itm SeDot. a
l   __           _~~~~~~~~~~~ I                    I        I      Schools
Surce- Compiled by che DOD.loo
1In o   f1D c*A. t.. Ion aaber eade o-lapplag or *p-urate -late to thb  coantry. The doratito d  tbhir
oraa  ale. warled.  For uwala. thu t        t uborm of tbh  Puhrrary-Nrch 1971 Supr"l-aon Ka12_0  Outed
separately with cu  ctauyng owr a .ik and the ocher under a wush. Thoe.  t  totsl wko and Chu nUbr
of ___-vuuka Is thu conatry         both tuo.
21  VislC. to lomtlcutlo   ootsldu of th0 project haw  not beo included.
31 nmIP: Vilage lanageasct Traainng Prosr?.; VNTC: VI a.1 o Yanamunt Training Canter
Oiber di Soprwialon Kiaio   - 15
Inulano intarwal betwaun .nlanm -  7  ooth
niul    Intereal hetuman Woola - -  3 onth.
L.?flD: CZ - Cu_aral educator
TZ - Tachaca IEdecatur
AR - AgrIcek.r.i lducator
A  - Archltect
CC - Comuist
0  - Othur - Se  twu- k r actlon.



- iv-
Follow on Projects:           Sixth Education Project, Credit No. 861-TA
US$12.0 Million.
Seventh Education Project, Credit No. 1056-TA
IDA US$25.0 Million and Danish Kroners 115
Million (US$20.0 Million equivalent).
Currency Exchange rate*
Name of Currency:               Tanzania Shilling (T.Sh.)
Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year                  1975: US$1.00 - T.Sh. 8.05
1976: US$1.00 - T.Sh. 8.31
Intervening Years*              1977: US$1.00 - T.Sh. 7.94
1978: US$1.00 - T.Sh. 7.41
1979: US$1.00 - T.Sh. 8.22
1980: US$1.00 - T.Sh. 8.18
1981: US$1.00 - T.Sh. 8.37
Completion Year*                1982: US$1.00 - T.Sh. 9.33
As of December 31, of each year.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY:        1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983   1984
a) Estimated at   -   1.30  4.81   9.17 10.75 10.98 11.00 11.00 11.00
Appraisal
b)  Actual                                                              11
Disbursements   -   0.44  1,51   2.40  3.98  5.18  6.10  6.94  7o.06
c) b as Z of a    -      34    31     26    37    47    55    63    64
1/  Final disbursement on December 30, 1983 and balance of US$3.94 million
cancelled.



Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(Ua$)
ORIGINAL
CATEGORY                              ALLOCATION                    ACTUAL
(1) Civil Works, and                  5,300,000                  2,809,524.88
Materials for VMT
Houses
(2) Furniture, Vehicles               2,000,000                  2,402,191.18
and Equipment
a) Imported
b) Imported but Procured
Locally
c) Locally Manufactured
(3) Project Administration and          550,000                  1,125,340.04
Operational Costs of Parts
A and B of the Project
(4) Consultants Services                750,000                   726,472.15
(5) Unallocated                       3,400,000 t
TOTAL                            11,000,000                 7,063,528.25
CANCELLED                                                   3,936,471.75



- vi -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA - FIPTH EDUWCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 607-TA)
HIGBLIGHTS
Objectives
1.         The US$11.0 million IDA Credit financed a project designed to:
(a) expedite rural development through training and the provision of
logistical support and housing to Village Management Technicians (VMTs);
(b) assist in the diversification of the secondary school curricula being
implemented since 1963 by the Government through provision of facilities
for the teaching of science and practical subjects; (c) rationalize and
upgrade the training of accounting and auditing personnel; and (d)
establish a basis for the future planning of primary and secondary school
development by carrying out a comprehensive inventory of existing secondary
school facilities as well as review of the content and the delivery system
of primary education (paras. 1.01 and 3.11).
Implementation
2.         The Credit Agreement was amended in August, 1977 to enable the
funds to be used to rehabilitate some buildings associated with the Village
Management Training Program (VMTP) and to change the percentage of
financing for materials for the VMTP bouses. The Project was closed on
June 30, 1982, its original Closing Date. The Project's objectives for
civil works, equipment, and furniture were partially met although only less
than half of the transport facilities provided by the Credit was actually
purchased and used (900 bycicles out of 2000 estimated at appraisal). The
construction of houses for the VMTP was only partially completed (420
houses were built compared to 1500 projected at appraisal) due to several
factors: (a) lack of counterpart funds; (b) non availability of building
materials, construction equipment, and transportation facilities; (c) low
motivation towards self-help approach; and (d) inadequate supervision by
regional and district authorities. In general, however, the construction
of the secondary schools was quite successful even though only 13 out of
the 15 schools were completed. The two remaining schools could not be
undertaken because of lack of interest by contractors in tendering for them
because of their location (paras. 4.06, 4.07, 4.10, and 4.13).
3.         From a narrow viewpoint the training component of the VMTP was
successful insofar as slightly more than the planned 1,500 VMTs
participated. Given that this component was designed to support the
Government's "Villagization program, and that the Government later changed
its policy as well as emphasis, the VMTP could hardly have been expected to
succeed under such circumstances. The secondary school component has not
met expectations in terms of the ready availability of qualified teachers,
particularly in mathematics, sciences, and practical subjects and increased
enrollment. During the period 1980-83 enrollment rose in the 13 retained



- vii -
project schools from about 6,000 to about 6,400 (6%), while at appraisal an
increase of 30 percent was envliaged. In addition, a complex curriculum
offering too many optional subjects, among them a variety of practical
subjects; shortage of qualified teachers, partlcularly in mathematics,
science, and practical subjects; and limited recurrent funds have
contributed to a low utillration of the facilities provided (paras. 6.10,
6.16, 6.20, and 6.23).
Technical Assistance, Studies, and Fellowships
4.         The Project Included eight man-years of technical assistance to
the National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAM) for the curriculum
development standardization of Instructional materials as well as 1V
man-year of technical assistance for the survey of existing educational
facilities. In additlon, the Project provided funds for 300 man-months of
overseas fellowship for acquisition of skills In clvll engineering,
building construction, quantity surveying, and architecture and for
studies. The institutional objectlves of the technical assistance vere
fully achieved. All the fellowships were used and the studies were carried
out satisfactorily (Paras 4.19, 6.24, 6.25, 6.29, 6.30, and 6.35).
Outcomes
5.         The MVTP Component.  The Project outcomes of this component were
enormously afected by a change in the Government policy regarding
'Villagization Program" in 1981. The training element of the MVTP produced
more MVTs than anticipated because the Government recognizing the
importance of this component at the time provided additional funds. While
the quality of the training is questionable, this training program was
nonetheless successful (paras. 1.05, 6.08, 6.10, and 6.11).
6.         Diversification of Secondary Education Curricula.  The
broadening of curricula in secondary education to include practical
subjects and the expansion of secondary school capacity have not been
successful because of the shortage of practical subject teachers, poorly
designed workshops, substandard equipment, and low enrollment (paras. 1.06,
6.16, and 6.23).
7.         The objectives of the studies on primary and secondary education
and accountancy have largely been achieved. Also, all technical assistance
provided under the Project has been judged as successful (Paras 1.07, 4.19,
6.24, and 6.36).
Project Costs
8.         The total cost of the project was US$8.8 million equivalent
versus the US$15.0 million estimated at appraisal. The substantial
difference originates mainly in the shortfall of the self-help housing



- viii -
scheme included In the VNTP component (about 420 houses were built as
compared with 1,500 projected at appraisal) and a lower than expected
increase In the building cost index in the early years of implementation
when the bulk of the secondary schools were constructed (paras. 5.01, and
5.02).
Leasons Learned
9.         The experience In implementing this project brings forth the
following: (a) the need to exert great caution In the formulation/appraisal
stage of projects whlch Involve sweeping social/polltical reforms despite
apparent benefits. Also the necessity to insure, through appropriate
covenants in the development credit agreement, the minimization of risks;
and (b) the necessity to closely assess and monitor the Government's
capability In terms of providing specialized teachers as well as resources
for training materials when providing workshops and specialized facilities
as was the case of the Secondary School Diversification Program
(paras. 1.08, 6.31, and 6.39).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA - FIFI EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 607-TA)
I. SUMHARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Project and its Objectlves
1.01      The project was designed to: (a) expedite rural development
through the training and the provision of logistical support and housing to
village management technicians; (b) asssist in the diversification of the
curriculum of the general secondary schools and to increase enrollments in
15 project schools; (c) rationalize and upgrade the training system for
accountants and auditors and to establlsh professional standards in those
flelds; (d) assist planning at the secondary level through a survey of
school facilities and their utilization; and (e) carry out a sub-sector
review of primary education In order to facilitate future planning for that
level.
Project Formulation
1.02      The 18-month preparation process leading to the Project was
systematic and missions took place in a timely manner. However there are
serious reservations about the formulation of two components of the
project, namely the Vi llage Management Training Program (VMTP) and the
Secondary School Diversification Program (paras. 1.05 and 1.06).
Project Components
1.03      The project as appraised consisted of Part A: training, equlpping
and housing of 1,500 Village Management Technicians (VNT); Part B:
construction, equippiug and furnishing of 15 secondary schools; and Part C:
studies of primary and secondary education and accountancy training.  The
project largely met its targets under Part B (para. 6.08) and Part C
(paras- 6.18 and 6.21), but under Part A, while training of VNT exceeded
the target, the construction of VMT houses was curtailed to about 400 of
the 1,500 foreseen due, inter alia, to lack of local funds and interest on
the part of the villagers (paras. 4.07, 4.08 and 6.13).
Project Implementation
1.04      Implementation was hampered by the existence of three project
units and the fact that each component involved country-wide activities.
The Project Implementation Section (PIS) of the Ministry of National
Education (MME) was further handicapped by extensive staff shortages
(para. 4.03) (Annex 1) and project commitments involving nine donor
agencies. Notwithstanding these constraints, the PIS was able to handle
these projects in parallel with the secondary school extensions under this
project and generally performed satisfactorily. The YMTP Project Executive
Group functioned efficiently 'n the early years considering the complexity
and size of the component. Among its problems was the irregular provision
of C-overnment funds. The departure of the Nordic team (para. 4.19) and the



-2-
departure of the finance controller and the accountant due to transfers,
seriously reduced the unit's effectiveness. The National Board of
Accountants and Auditors (NBAA) appears to have performed adequately,
although it did not provide the VMTP Executive Group with up-to-date
information concerning the technical assistance sub-component during a
certain period. Design and construction of the secondary sebool component
was generally satisfactory and benefitted from gradual refinements
developed under former IDA education projects.  Similarly, furniture for
the project proved to be well designed and built. Equipment procurement
was carried out on time and with the exception of one major supplier
providing sub-standard equipment was generally satisfactory. Installation
of workshop equipment was not completed in most project schools, but funds
have been allocated under the Sixth Education Project (Credit 861-TA) to
carry out this work.
Project Outcomes
1.05      The VMTP component cannot be separated from the fact that at the
start of the project this program was a maior priority of the Government as
part of its villagizatlon  program started in 1972 and reinforced through
the Ujamsa aud Villages Act of 1975. However project outcomes with respect
to this component were enormously affected by a change in Government policy
in 1981 which altered earlier commitments. The training element of the
VMTP produced nore VMTs than anticipated because tae Government which
recognized the importance of the component at the time provided additional
funds. While the quality of the training has been questioned, it was
probably as successful as it could be expected, given the difficulties
encountered in carrrying out a program of this nature. On the other hand,
the outcome of the hardware aspect of this component proved disappointing:
for example, out of the estimated 1,500 VMT houses, only 400 were built due
to the failure of the self-help construction scheme (para. 4.07) and of
2,000 bicycles, about 900 were bought and distributed since the number of
VMTs fell far short of the number estimated at appraisal, and because
bicycles were not the best mode of transportaion in some remote villages,
where some of the MVTs were posted (para. 4.10). Also out of 500
motorcycles purchased for the program, 40 were comna-leered by the police
and neither returned nor paid for: a corresponding amount was subsequently
cancelled from the Credit. The Development Credit Agreement did not
require annual audits as is the case for all follow-up projects.
1.06      The component concerning the diversification of secondary school
curriculum and the expansion of school capacity has not been successful
(paras. 6.16-6.23). Two major problems remain namely: (a) the shortage of
practical subjects teachers; and (b) low enrollments. Other negative
aspects are as follows: (a) the wood and metal workshops were designed and
constructed before the curricula were developed and other important
criteria considered; (b) the workshops are oversized and will likely be



- 3 -
under-utilized; (c) the operating costs of these workshops have not been
studied and it appears that to date there are no budget allocations for
them; (d) most of the workshop equipment and tools are sub-standard and
will have to be replaced; (e) only one metal-work teacher has been assigned
and to date only one school has a metal-work teacher while nine schools
have woodwork teachers; and (f) between 1980 and 1983, the enrollment at
the project schools increased only by 358 (62) 1/ (Re Table 1, page 18).
1.07      The objectives of the three studies (Part C of the project) have
largely been achieved.
Lessons Learned and Recoumendations
1.08      The principal lessons to be learned from the project are the
following:
'a) much greater caution should have been exercised in
supporting the VMITP program. Because of its complexity,
implementation difficulties and social/political
sensitivity, it would have been preferable to support
simpler components which are likely to yield better results;
(b) in the diversification of the curriculum in general
secondary schools, much greater attention should have
been given to the supply of practical subjects teachers as
well as curriculum development, potential utilization and
costs in relation to benefits, prior to investment in
buildings;
(c) the sub-standard equipment supplied to the schools
emphasizes the need to inspect the equipment prior to its
crating and shipment, and by inference, strengthening of
project management capacity;
(d) technical assistance financed under the Credit proved to be
effective and the judicious inclusion of it in future
projects should be encouraged;
(e) the involvement of three project units created difficulties
in the supervision of project implementation. It is
suggested that this multi-project management approach should
be avoided; and
(f)  project completion missions occur too soon to evaluate
educational outcomes. In critical cases, this should be
done later.
1/ These findings should be seen in conjunction with the OPS -DISCUS'
Study, prepared as part of the World Bank Research Project Diversified
Secondary Education Curricula (RPO 672-45).



-4-
II. INTRODUCTION
2.01      This report is based on findings of a mission by Messrs. R.
Welter (Sr. Architect - RMFA) and J. Bolibaugh (Educator, Consultant) Which
visited Tanzania in January 1984 to collect information related to all
aspects of the project from formulation to completion, a process which
covered about nine years (1974-1983). Since this project was implemented
for the most part at the same time as the Fourth Education Project (Credit
371-TA), much background information is common to both projects. Thus this
report should be read in conjunction with the Project Completion Report
(PCR) for the Fourth Project, dated May 28, 1982.
2.02      This report is based on: documnents in Bank Group files;
information obtained from the three authorities who sharad the
responsibility of implementation, namely the Prime Minister's Office 'PKO)
for the Village Management Technician Training Program (VMTP), the Project
Implementation Section (PIS) of the Ministry of National Education (MM)
for the Secondary School Program, and the National Board of Accountants and
Auditors (NBAM) for Rationalization and Upgrading of Training for
Accountants and Auditors, visits to project institutions, and discussions
with other Government officials, principals, staff and students of project
institutions and Bank Group staff familiar with the project.
2.03      In terms of financial overview and because of important gaps of
information on costs, particularly in relation to the VHTP, actual
expenditures of the project had to be reconstructed by tabulating all
withdrawal applications submitted by category of expenditure and component
of the project.
2.04      In the field, the mission visited most of the institutions
(para. 3.12) under Part B of the project as well as Part C which were
centralized in Dar-es-Salaam. Because the VMTP (Part A) was scattered
across the country and in remote areas, evaluation of both construction and
training aspects of the program was a more difficult process. It was
physically impossible to visit enough housing and talk with a sufficient
number of Village Management Technicians (VET) to get a comprehensive view
of this component, and the mission therefore had to rely on centralized
information available from the PMO as well as progress reports which were
very comprehensive during the Nordic Group's involvement (para. 6.05) with
the program.
2.05      The Government did not prepare its own completion report (not
stipulated in Development Credit Agreement (DCA)) but a number of related
reports provided valuable information and the PIS was extremely helpful in
gathering much of the information contained in this report.



-5-
III. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socio-Economic Setting
3.01      Tanzania has a land area of about 945,000 km2, some 19.8 million
people (1982) and a population density of about 21 inhabitants per km2.
About 73% of the population reside in rural areas with only 13% living in
urban areas. The population growth rate is close to 3.3% per annum and
about 46% of the population is below 15 years of age. The estimated GNP
per capita in 1980 was about US$260. Life expectancy is estimated at 51
years. Kiswahili is the national language and the medium of instruction in
the primary schools, while English is used in the secondary schools.
3.02      Some 90% of the labor force works in agriculture, mostly in
subsistence farming. Agriculture accounts for 51% of the GDP and over 80Z
of exports. This significant dependence on cash crops for foreign
exchange, fiscal revenue and employment leaves the economy quite vulnerable
to variations in the world commodity markets for raw materials as well as
to weather conditions.
Development Strategy
3.03      The Arusha Declaration of 1967 defines the broad aims of
development: to create a socialist economy and society devoid of tribal
privilege and economic exploitation and to achieve rapid economic growth in
order to improve the material and social well-being of the mass of the
population. Strict priority is given to rural development. The strategy
to achieve these aims includes: (a) increased equity in income
distribution; (b) public ownership of all major companies; (c)
modernization of agriculture; and (d) growth of manufacturing mainly to
support rural development.
3.04      The Government now owns or controls nearly all important
enterprises. Private investment has declined sharply and nmany foreigners
have left the country. As a result, the shortage of managerial personnel
for the public and parastatal sectors has been aggravated. Since 1978, the
economic situation has worsened as indicated by a 3.5% decrease in GDP
between 1980 and 1981. A number of policy reforms have been introduced
lately but, even if vigorously pursued, whether they will be adequate to
stimulate a beginning of economic recovery remains to be seen.
The Education Sector
3.05      The general education system (Annex 3) consists of seven years of
primary (Standards I-VII), four years of lower secondary (Forms I-IV), two
years of higher secondary (Forms V-VI), and higher education. After the
primary level, there are various types of technical, vocational and teacher
training courses.



-6-
3.06      Comparative enrollment data for public schools by grade, level
and sex for the years 1961, 1971 and 1982 are provided in Annex 4. In
1982, the primary level gross enrollment ratio was reported to be about 97Z
of the 7-13 age group with a net ratio of about 711. The enrollment bulge
(Standard V in 1982) was due to a 1978 major campaign to reach Universal
Primary Education (UPE). The financial constraints imposed upon general
secondary education by the emphasis upon UPE as well as conservative human
resource planning and the high costs of boarding schools led to a virtual
stagnation of public general secondary school enrollments after 1975.
While there has been a significant increase in private general secondary
school enrollments (43Z of total enrollments in 1982) due to social demand,
the gross enrollment ratio of the 14-19 years of age group was estioated to
be only about 3Z in 1982. This stagnation has been accompanied by a loss
of quality due to poor physical conditions of public scbools and shortage
of instructional equipment and materials, as well as of qt"lified science
and mathematics teachers-
3.07      The under-development of secondary education has led to small
intakes at the University which is operating far below capacity and with a
teacher-student ratio of about 1 to 4. The output of trained professionals
is too small to significantly reduce the serious shortage of high-level
manpower which exists in most economic sectors.
Project Formulation
3.08      A Unesco project identification mission visited Tanzania in June
1974 and the report was released in the early fall of that year. This was
followed by a joint IDA-Unesco reconnaissance mission in November 1974. A
Bank Group agriculturalist visited the country in April-May 1975 for three
weeks to assist in the preparation of the proposed VMTP. In May 1975, a
Unesco project preparation mission helped the Government to complete its
request for the Fifth Education Project.
3.09      The June 1974 Unesco identification report proposed seven major
project components. The joint Bank Group-Unesco mission estimated the cost
of such a project at US$50 million or about five times as much as the
available IDA allocation- Hence, the Government jointly with the mission
selected three of the seven components for preparation and these were
included in the Project (Para. 3.12).
3.10      A Bank Group appraisal mission visited Tanzania in June 1975 and
a further Bank Group mission visited the country in October-November of
that year to discuss the draft report with the Government.
Project Objectives
3.11      The principal objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the
management and organization of about 7,500 Ujamaa villages through the
provision of personnel trained in appropriate skills; (b) continue the
reorientation of secondary education started in 1963 through provision of



-7-
facilities for the teaching of science and pract-ical subjects;
(c) rationalize and plan training and development of accounting, auditing
and allied subjects; and (d) establish a basis for the future planning of
primary and secondary school development by carrying out a comprehensive
Invento:y of existing secondary school facilities as well as review of the
contenc and delivery system of primary education.
Project Components
3.12      The project consisted of the fol;vwing:
Part A:  A program to train about 1,500 cooperative inspectors and
community development workers to become Village Management
Technicians, and the provision of essential facilities at local
level so as to enable them to operate effectively in the
villages. Part A includes equipping, furnishing, and provision
of vehicles for about five Rural Training Centers, provision of
about 2,000 pedal-cycles, materials for bookkeeping and local
purchases, construction of about 1,500 modest houses, and
provision of about 500 motorcycles for supervisory staff at
district headquarters.
Part B: Expansion of the capacity of about 15 secondary schools, from an
aggregate of about 6,900 students to about 9,000 students, to
achieve increased teaching of science and practical subjects.
Part B includes construction, equipping and furnishing of the
additional facilities.
Part C:   (i)   A survey of existing training facilities for accountants
and auditors, the formulation of a national training plan
therefore, and the definition of professional standards to
be applied by them.
(ii) A survey of educational facilities in all secondary schools
and an assessment of their utilization.
(iii) A primary education sub-sector review.
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
3.13      The DCA was amended on August 9, 1977 to add the following
components:
(a) the renovation of Village Management Training Centers
and the Village Management Training Program
Headquarters (Part A, Schedule 2);
(b) expansion of the Rural Village Management Training
Centers (Part A, Schedule 2); and



-8-
(c)  materials for VMT houses (Category I, Schedule I). The
percent of expenditures to be financed was changed to
100Z foreign expenditure and 75Z of local expenditures.
3.14      Also the contract between the Government and Unesco, financed
under the project, was amended on two occasions to increase the technical
assistance as follows:
(a)  January 9, 1980:  (first addendum to the Agreement between
the Government of Tanzania and Unesco): The number of
man-months for expert services was increased from the
original 24 to 48.
(b)  March 11, 1981: (second addendum to the Agreement between
the Government of Tanzania and Unesco): Another 24
man-months for expert services was added making a total of
72.
Covenants
3.15      The covenants were generally complied with except as follows:
(a)   Sections 4.01 and 4.02 where the Project Executive Group of
the VMTP was unable to finalize the accounting due to lack
of staff; and
(b)   Section 4.03, where the maintenance of secondary school
buildings had not been adequate.
3.16      Covenants in the DCA were mostly of a general nature and did not
address problems related to reviewing and monitoring the VMTP program nor
to the supply of practical subjects teachers for the secondary education
diversification program.



-9-
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
General
4.01      The Development Credit Agreement was signed January 29, 1976 and
became effective within less than two months, on March 23, 1976 due
basically to the existence of a viable project unit with administrative
experience gained on previous Bank Group assisted education projects. The
secondary schools included in the project utilized previously developed
architectural designs and procurement of civil works, furniture and
equipment was carried out according to Bank Group guidelines with which PIS
was well acquainted. The studies of: (a) the training system for and the
establishment of professional standards of accountants and auditors; (b)
educational facilities in secondary schools; and (c) the review of primary
education have been completed. The major incomplete sub-component was the
construction of houses for Village Management Technicians. The failure to
meet even remotely the target of 1,500 houses included in the project was
due mainly to lack of motivation among villagers and shortages of local
funds, inter alia. The project was closed as scheduled on June 30, 1982,
while withdrawal applications were honored until May 31, 1983. Since the
closing of the project occurred during the period of suspension of
disbursements by the Bank Group, at which time there was little
communication with the Government, the decision came as a surprise to the
Government. However, since the attainment of the objectives of the project
would not have been much different had postponement of the Closing Date
been granted, the Bank Group maintained its decision to allow the project
to close as originally scheduled. Final disbursemeat occured on July 7,
1983 and the remaining undisbursed funds of US$3.94 million were cancelled.
Project Management
4.02      Among the internal problems of the project was the dispersion of
administrative control, since there were three project units. The PIS
dealt with Parts B and C (ii)-(iii) while Part A was the responsibility of
the h;nject Executive Group of the PMO and Part C (i) was under the
adminitration of the NBAA. Another problem was germane to the nature of
the VMTP, as it involved large numbers of people and institutions
throughout the country. To a much lesser extent, the dispersed locations
of the general secondary schools made supervision difficult. Annex 5 lists
technical assistance specialists and fellowships financed under the project
including those for project management.
4.03      The PIS (Annex 1), in February 1983, cons'sted of 40 professional
and technical personnel of which 20 were Tanzanians. However, since the
required staff was 91, there was a substantial shortfall (Annex 2). A
major and continuing problem for the PIS staff was the backlog of projects
being implemented concurrently with this project and the fact that these
involved 19 different donor agencies. In spite of these problems, the work
of the PIS was quite satisfactory; not the least due to the services of a
competent project coordinator.



- 10 -
4.04      The Project Executive Group of the PNO was assisted by the Nordic
Group which furnished initially five experts. However, as the nature of
the VMTP changed, the number was reduced to one and eventually none.
Further, two key Tanzanian specialists were transferred, the finance
controller in February 1981 and the accountant in March 1982. The team
operated well considering the complexities and size of the component.
However, with the departure of the Nordic team and the transfer of the
above two specialists, the group became less effective.
4.05      The component concerning the NBAA was administrated by its
Board, and included a major technical assistance element with minor
equipment and transport components. The NBAA administration experienced
some administrative difficulties in the beginning, but given the relatively
successful outcomes, the NBAA must be considered a satisfactory project
implementation unit (Organization Chart of NBAA, and NBAA Accomplishments
1973-1983, Annexes 6 and 7).
Physical Implementation 2/
Village Management Technician Training Program (Part A)
4.06      Construction of VMT Houses.  From the start of implementation,
the construction component of the VMTP ran into difficulties and as
repeatedly reported in the course of Bank Group supervisions going as far
back as 1978, it was clear that the full complement of 1,500 houses would
never be built. The number of houses reported to have been constructed
varies considerably between supervision reports and VMTP progress reports.
Because of the diffusion throughout the country, verification of exact
numbers is difficult but the final number completed is estimated at about
420 houses with 70 to 170 houses at various stages of completion.
4.07      The reasons for this poor performance are the followiag: (a) lack
of counterpart funds; (b) shortages or non-availability of building
materials, construction equipment and means of transport; (c) low
motivation towards the self-help approach; and (d) inadequate supervision
by regional and district authorities.
4.08      Two other indirect factors were also responsible for the failure
of the constructioo program; namely, the war in Uganda and the change in
the Government's policies under which the VMTP was no longer a matte, of
national priority. A major factor among the ones listed above wes the lack
of commitment shown by many communities towards self-help construction.
Bank Group supervision missions discussed with the PMO implementation team
as early as October 1975, the possibility of diverting the construction
program to the private sector by employing contractors but this idea was
not followed up since it was learned that the Government would not be in
favor of this approach on ideological grounds.
2/ Planned and actual implementation schedules in Annex 8.



- 11 -
4.09      Equipment for the VMTP.  With respect to the vehicles and
equipment for the training program, the results were much more positive and
procurement and distribution was basically carried out as scheduled and
within original cost estimates and following closely agreed procurement
procedures. Whereas many vehic'es were procured through the purchasing
facilities of UNICEF the bulk of equipment went to ICB.
4.10      With respect to transport facilities and the 500 motorcycles
purchased for the program, 40 were commandeered by the police.
Consequently, the corresponding amount was cancelled from Credit proceeds.
Secondly, instead of 2,000 bicycles, only about 900 were bought and
distributed since the number of VMTs felt far short of the number estimated
at appraisal, and because bicycles were not considered by the Government to
be the best mode of transportation in some remote villages, where some VNTs
were posted and due to the abandonment of the program to post VMT in rural
wards in July 1981-
Secondary School Program (Part B)
4.11      Sites.  There were no problems related to the siting of the
secondary school extensions, since the proposed facilities were all built
on developed land adjacent to existing school buildings. All sites were
surveyed prior to the designing of facilities, and selection in each case
was decided by a PIS team in conjunction with water and electricity
authorities, and the regional planning and education officers.
4.12      Design.  As part of the Fourth Education Project and in response
to the need to simplify buildings and reduce construction costs a
standardized system of building construction was developed by a group of
DANIDA architects within the PIS. This system based on a modular principle
proved to be very successful both in terms of design and as a means of
controlling c,sts. The resulting facilities are appropriate for the needs,
relatively easy to construct and provide well-lit and cross-ventilated
rooms which can be used with great flexibility for most academic purposes.
Because the system was reasonably successful it was used with slight
modifications in the Fifth Education Project. These changes consisted
mainly in redesigning the roof structures and foundations to make the
structure lighter and more economical. Apart from the overall success of
the system, the following positive aspects should also be noted: all window
and door frames are the same size which facilitates both fabrication in the
workshop and erection on site to decrease cost. Also, the roofs which were
over-designed in the Fourth Education Project were simplified in this
project with good results, although the new design required additional
supervision during erecticn. Overall spaces have been criticized for being
somewhat generous and these have been scaled down in the Sixth Education
Project. It would also have to be added that the column and beam
structural system was designed with utmost flexibility in mind, but
considering the fact that most academic requirements can be accommodated in
single storey buildings, concrete structures are not required and is
therefore a more costly solution for a flexibility which is not essential.



- 12 -
4.13      Civil Works.  Contractors were prequalified with advertising
carried out in newspapers and advising foreign embassies. However, only
local contractors responded since the volume of work did not even attract
Class I contractors within the country who were registered for work above
TSh. 15 million. In general, construction of the secondary schools turned
out quite successfully with 13 out of 15 schools built. The two schools
which were not constructed, Kigonsera and Ndanda, although tendered twice,
did not attract contractors due to the remoteness and inaccessibility of
the sites.
4.14      In two instances for tendering purposes, schools were grouped in
pairs (two in Dar-es-Salaam and two in the Mbeya regions) and contracts
awarded accordingly. With a few exceptions, where construction extended
over a period of three to four years, most schools were built within
acceptable time limits and with good workmanship. Schools which were
started earlier in the project were also completed more quickly since later
contracts suffered from the gradual deterioration of conditions due to the
overall economic situation and to causes described previously in this
report. The chief causes of delay were the lack of cement and the
scarcity of imported materials such as sanitary ware, electrical fittings
and ironmongery. The supply of these materials dwindled to a complete stop
thus preventing many of the schools to be timely opened, although in terms
of the basic structure they were in the finishing stages. Mainly because
of larger than planned wood and metal workshops, total areas provided
exceeded somewhat appraisal estimates (Annex 9).
4.15      Furniture.  Procurement of furniture was enormously facilitated
by the standardized drawings and specifications which had been prepared
under the Fourth IDA Education Project. With the exception of minor
modifications to basic chairs, no changes were necessary and the designs in
terms of durability, use of local wood and appropriateness must be
considered as a great success which might be taken advantage of in similar
projects. The furniture is easy to build, easy to assemble and most
important, easy to repair. For maintenance only glue and screws are
required. In terms of production, furniture for each school was tendered
separately using similar procedures as for civil works. At first, due to
the lack of familiarity with the designs, furniture contractors did not
compete very keenly but with repeated contracts, competition and quality
improved resulting in lower costs.
4.16      Equipment.  Lists, including all workshop, domestic science and
science laboratory equipment were prepared in a timely fashion by the
specification specialist within the PIS with the cooperation of the
Secondary Education Section of the NNE. Preparation of lists and tender
documents was completed in early 1978.   Tendering took place in May, 1978,
and contracts were awarded in July, 1978. Seven international firms,
shortlisted by the PIS, took part in the tendering, which was carried out
according to ICB regulations.



- 13 -
4.17      Delivery of equipment was carried out without problems except for
one supplier. This supplier required extensions of letters of credit not
less than six times and all the equipment supplied proved to be
sub-standard and virtually unusable. These defects were discovered at the
time of clearing the goods in the port of Dar-es-Salaam and therefore too
late to allow for corrections. In the future equipment should be inspected
prior to shipment by technical as well as procurement experts.
4.18      No other problems with equipment delivery from other suppliers
were experienced either in quality or time of delivery. Additional science
equipment which was ordered later in the project was inspected in the UK
and USA by "General Superintendent of Stores" which is an international
organization whose services consist of inspection of goods prior to
shipment.
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
4.19      All project components were assisted by experts and specialized
consultants during the implementation of the project. A total of about 600
man-months of technical assistance was supplied by the Nordic Group in
addition to that provided under the project. The Nordic Group provided
technical assistance for the VMTP, the secondary school construction
program and all fellowships, while for the three studies technical
assistance was financed under the project. As for the VMT program the
assistance focussed on management, financial control, training, planning
and evaluation. The PIS assistance concentrated on the construction
program for secondary schools and provided expertise in building
construction, design, quantity surveying and accounting. With regard to
the studies on primary and secondary education facilities as well as the
NB M study Unesco was involved together with local consultants. The
technical assistance was overall successful and contributed substantially
to the achievements during implementation. More details on technical
assistance outcome and performance are to be found under Chapter VI,
Project Operating Outcomes. For details on technical assistance positions
and duration of assignments, refer to Annex 5. Overseas fellowships to UK
and U.S.A. amounting to about 300 man-months were awarded in civil
engineering, building construction, quantity surveying and architecture.



- 14 -
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Project Costs
5.01      The final cost of the project was TSh. 76.1 million or US$8.8
million, excluding taxes. Compared to appraisal estimates of TSh. 120.8
million and US$15 million net of taxes this represents 63% and 59Z of the
respective totals in Tanzanian and US currencies. The different
percer-ges are the result of fluctuating exchange rates during the period
of implementation.
5.02      Comparison of the project costs as estimated at appraisal and as
actually implemented are shown in Annexes 10 and 11 where these costs are
broken down by type of expenditure and by project components,
respectively. The total cost of civil works was only about 36Z of
appraisal estimates (including contingencies). This can be explained by:
(a) the failure of the housing program within the VMTP component (para.
4.06); (b) the smaller than intended number of secondary schools included
in the project (para 4.13); and (c) the lower than projected increases in
the building cost index in the first years of project implementation
(between 1980 and 1982, and as shown in Annex 12, the cost index increased
substantially more than projected) when the bulk of the construction took
place.
5.03      The actual cost of furniture in the project exceeded by about 502
appraisal estimates. This can be attributed to an apparent increase in the
volume acquired and to delays in its procurement (Annex 8). In the case of
equipment, a reduction in volume for the VMTP component more than
compensated the cost effect of delays in the procurement for secondary
schools. Regarding project administration, the difficulties and
uncertainties encountered, in particular in the implementation of the VHTP
component, explains the excess of actual cost over appraisal estimates.
Disbursements
5.04      A comparison of actual and estimated disbursements shows that
appraisal expectations of a very sharp rise in the three middle years of
implementation, namely FY78-80 did not materialize but instead the
disbursement curve remained fairly constant throughout the implementation
period. Apart from the VMTP civil works component, the balance of the
project followed a steady rate of disbursement which could be considered
satisfactory. During the last year of implementation, the suspension of
disbursements which applied to all Bank Group projects in Tanzania affected
withdrawals adversely since some sizeable applications related to
administrative costs of the VMTP could not be submitted on time and
therefore are not included in the overall disbursement figure. The Bank
Group subsequently agreed to have the Government resubmit these
applications under the Sixth Education Project (Credit 861-TA).



-15 -
VI. PROJECT OPERATI8 OUTCME
PART A - Village Mget Tecbniciaa Training Program
6.01      Mackground.  This compomet was the result of the Goverment's
policy on Rural Development as enunciated by the Decentralization Act of
1972 followed by the Villages and Uamaa Village Act of 1975. Uhle both
acts involved resettlement of individual land-holders into villages and a
communal approach to rural development, the 1975 Act addressed perceived
weaknesses of the policy by delegating further Government powers to the
villages, making every recognized and registered village a self ruling
entity run by a village council comprising 5 committees: (a) Hmnance and
Planning; (b) Production and Marketing; (c) Education, Culture and Social
Welfare; (d) Works and Transport; and (e) Security and Defence. Financial
responsibility was substantially transferred to the villages by the same
act with powers to establish capital as well as reserve funds with the
ultimate purpose of having the villages function as Multipurpose
Cooperative Societies.
6.02      Participants.  The implementation of this Act called for the
injection of management skills to village functionaries and in order to
achieve this goal the Government decided to retrain about 1,500 Ujamas
Cooperative Development Assistants (UDCA) who were employees of the
Department of Ujamaa and Cooperatives in the Prime Minister's Office and
were working In different regions and districts of the country. This group
was made up of about 800 Rural Development Assistants and 700 Cooperative
Iuspectors. Eligibility for attending the retraining course was employment
status as a UCPA and preparedness to work in the rural areas after
successfully completing the course as a Village Management Technician
(V-T).
6.03      Training Objectives.  The anticipated outcome of the training was
for VMT's to have acquired enough knowledge and skills to: (a) train
Village Functionaries (Chairman, Secretary, Book-keeper) and Village Bodies
(Council, Assembly) in their respective roles and responsibilities; (b)
assist in identifying and implementing viable economic activities and
seeking Government assistance when necessary; (c) impart management skills
to the villages with respect to savings and credit schemes, wholesale and
retail activities, and book-keeping and accounting for village property;
(c) carry out inspection of accounts of village economic activities; and
(d) organize data at village level for proper future planning.
6.04      Training Program. Two types of courses were to be conducted
consecutively: (a) an Orientation Course of five weeks to be attended by
every UCDA who had formerly been a Rural Development Assistant (RDA) with
the following subjects to be taught: (a) commercial arithmetic,
book-keeping and internal auditing, cooperative management and law; and (b)
a Village Management Course of nine weeks to be attended jointly by RDA's
upon completion of the Orientation Course and former Cooperative Inspectors



- 16 -
with the following subjects to be taught: management, village planning and
training, book-keeping, village shop, agricultural economies, transport and
storage, data collection and analysis and political education.
6.05      Implementation.  Administration of the program was the
responsibility of an Executive Task Force in the Prime Minister's Office,
headed by a Tanzanian Director who was assisted by a Nordic Group Deputy
Director. Each of four specialized Tanzanian officers was assisted by
Nordic specialists for planning, finance, training and extension aids
design and production. Training took place in five training centers each
of which was staffed by a principal and tutors. Initial training of
principals and tutors took place in December 1975. Hence by May 1976 the
first orientation courses were started in three centers followed by Village
Management courses in July 1976. Soon thereafter, courses were conducted
in all five training centers so that by June 1979 all UCDA's in the
Department, numbering 1,444, had gone through the courses. In all, nine
courses were conducted (Annex 13).
6.06      As a result of the appointment of 507 VMT to become Village
Managers early in 1978, the Department requested IDA to reallocate TSh. 9.0
million from Civil Works to enable them to train 240 form IV leavers to
become VMT. With IDA's approval, the course was carried out in 1979/1980
and the 240 participants graduated in June 1980, thus bringing the total
number of MVT produced by the Training Centers to 1,684. At the closing of
the training, a total of about TSh. 20.0 million had been spent on
operational administration costs.
6.07      In 1971, a major policy change took place whereby the Ujamaa
Cooperative Department was split into two Departments namely a Cooperative
Department and a Community Development Department. Most of the VMT were
divided between these two departments, while some were relocated to
streng  .n district headquarters.  With this decision of the Government,
the VMT Program lost most of its momentum and very little progress took
place from that point onwards up to the closing of the project.
6.08      Evaluation.  During the period of project preparation this
component was considered by the Government to be of the highest priority
since it coincided with th^' introduction of the Villagization Program.
Although it was recognized as a high risk item by the Bank Group, it was
also perceived as a crash program- to answer an immediate problem of skill
shortage which was becoming increasingly acute in view of the Government's
decentralIzation policy. Furthermore this program included relatively
minor investment in buildings and equipment when compared to traditional
educational facilities, particularly at a time when overruns on civil works
of the Fourth Project were extremely high. Almost as soon as
implementation o' the project started, the difficulties inherent in this
component became even more apparent and the task of supervising such a vast
ef'ort proved to be extremely difficult as mentioned in most supervision
reports-



- 17 -
6.09      In term of the long term objective of accelerating rural
development through improving the management and organization of Ujawaa
villages, no major evaluation of the outcomes has been made. With the
Government's 1981 decision to split the Ujanaa Cooperative Departaent into
two separate Departments, the impetus of the villagization program dwindled
and was no longer seen as the major priority it was at the time of its
inception-
6.10      From the quantitative standpoint, the training aspect of the
component has been successful. Although specific figures in several
reports differ slightly on the number of trainees enrolled and passing the
nine courses, they are all of the same order of magnitude and indicate that
more than the planned 1,500 technicians received training. The five
training centers accommodated on the average 40-60 trainees. The one VMTC,
which was taken over by the military after offering five courses, was
subsequently compensated for by the Ministry and replaced by Tengeru VMTC_
The five VMTCs were used until completion of training, at whiich time, one
was converted into a cooperative training college and the other three into
district vocational centers in line with the change in Government policy.
6.11      The quality of the training was criticized in some supervision
reports and other documents. The content was referred to as overloaded and
too diverse in view of the duration of the courses, teaching methods were
viewed as largely limited to lectures and the teachers were assessed as
inadequately prepared to teach certain subjects. Other negative comments
included the low education level of trainees, the lack of instructional
materials and the difficulties of recruiting and retaining candidates.
6.12      In terms of the VMT performance within the villages, reports vary
considerably as to the assessment of their effectiveness and the degree of
acceptance on the part of villagers. Whereas some reports indicate that
the VMT contributed valuable advice and assistance, particularly with
respect to book-keeping and accounting, interviews with a few individuals
familiar with the program indicated that some VMT were rejected or
neglected by villagers. Finally, the fact that many of the technicians
were diverted into becoming village managers and cooperative assistants may
represent a setback in terms of the objectives of the proiect component,
but it may be considered having achieved the overall objective to expedite
rural development. When the nature of the VHTP changed and the staff was
reduced, valuable services were still rendered in terms of the large scale
training of village book-keepers and shop-managers which then took place in
the Folk Development Colleges. Despite heavy attrition rates, some 6,800
book-keepers and about 5,400 shop managers were trained between 1979-82.
6.13      The software aspects could be considered to be satisfactory,
however the construction of VMT housing failed to meet remotely estiaated
targets for the reasons given earlier in the report but the main reason
being the problem of self-help. The lack of response can be attributed to
several reasons: (a) housing, through self-help program was required for a
number of village level functionaries such as teachers, rural health



- 18 -
workers and agricultural extension agents. Therefore, it had to be
prioritized. The villagers were more willing to house the teacher and the
medical worker, because of the direct Impact of their services; (b) due to
worsening economic situation,the zeal for self-help had eroded. Already,
efficiency and productivity of village level enterprises were low, due to
the preoccupation of workers with garnering their daily supply of food and
fuel; and (c) the number of salaried personnel, partly paid from village
resources, increased steadily. At the village level, at least nine posts
(chairman, manager, secretary, book-keeper, shop manager, teacher, health
worker, agriculture extension agent and UCDA/VMT) were occupied by salaried
personnel. Consequently, the villagers were reluctant to pursue self-help
programs for their comfort. Under these circumstances, the target of
constructing 1,500 VMr houses was quite unrealistic. With respect to the
houses that were actually built and within village structures, the party
heads would decide as to the ultimate use of these houses and with the
shift in emphasis of the VMTP, it is doubtful that all were provided to the
Village Management Technicians -
6.14      Finally, the Prime Minister's Office did not prepare a final
account of the VMTP. In this connection, the next-to-last Progress Report
(April-June 1981) indicates that of the TSh. 6.3 million allocated for
training book-keepers and shop managers, some TSh. 2.5 million were
unaccounted for. However, these came from local rural production funds and
savings from various crops which were all local resources. The last VKTP
progress report (July 1981-June 1982) noted that of some TSh. 14.3 million
transferred to the districts for the construction of houses, almost
TSh. 3.0 million were unaccounted for. These problems were attributed to
the inadequate record keeping at the district and regional levels as well
as at the Folk Development Colleges (FDCs), and to the fact that the VHTP
project unit had no longer a finance controller as of February 1981 nor an
accountant as of March 1982.
6.15      Since all IDA reimbursements were made on submission of progress
certificates for completed construction work, the administrative procedure
of the VMTP was to advance money for construction to each region and upon
evidence of work done, withdrawal applications to IDA were prepared
accordingly. With respect to TSh. 7.0 million unaccounted for, the VMTP
administration at the closing of the Project asked for the return of
unutilized funds which some regions complied with while others requested to
keep in order to complete buildings still under construction. According to
the Director of the Program, unaccountability did not mean misuse: with
respect to V1ITP housing, although not on paper, most of the money spent vas
used by the regions on specified construction. Final accounts were
unavailable and therefore these unaccounted funds did not reflect an
ultimate financial situation but rather an incomplete one. For this
project, the Development Credit Agreement did not require annual audits
which are now mandatory in more recent Bank Group projects.



- 19 -
PART B - Secondary School Program
6.16      The outcomes of this compotent should be further evaluated
when the new workshops are in full operation and all of the science
equipment has been delivered and In use. However, there are indications
which suggest the element was largely conceived as a brick and mortar
exercise. Insufficient attention given to factors such as software and
teacher requirements. utilization rates in relation to school size and
student options as well as the probable overall outcomes in relation to
costs.
6.17      In general terms, the question could be posed as to why and for
what reason should the very small elite enrolled in general secondary
schools engage in such activities as welding and forging. If the value
lies in learning to work with one"s hands and to appreciate manual labor,
other options exist that are less costly and which would probably prove
more useful in later life. 3/
6.18      In some of the project schools the most attended optional.
subjects in Forms III and IV for students aspiring for A-level entrance are
additional chemistry and physics. For example, the headmaster of Azania
Boys General Secondary School in Dar-es-Salaamu reported that 70 percent of
Form III and IV students in the school take additional chemistry and
physics as optional subjects. It could be argued that a sound knowledge of
the subjects would be more useful to the future of this type of students
and to the country rather than an exposure to practice in the workshop.
6.19      The new wood and metal workshops are certain to be under-utilized
for numerous reasons including, inter alia: (a) both type of shops are too
large with each consisting of a block with three shops; 4/ (b) although
there are three workshops for each type of unit, apparentily only one
woodwork and one metalwork teacher is to be assigned to each school; (c)
seven of the 13 project schools have enrollments under 500 which is often
used as a minimum quantitative requirement to ensure normal utilization of
such facilities; (d) further, six of the schools are coeducational and
three are for girls only. It is likely that most girls will prefer other
options; (e) the schools offer up to nine other optional subjects. Hence,
wood and metal work will have to compete with these for attendance; (f)
aside from being optional, workshop practice will only be offered for three
3/ Diversification of the General Secondary School Curriculum has been
the subject of a Tanzanian case study in the Bank/IDA/OPS 'DISCUS
Study (1984).
4/ Survey of Educational Facilities in Secondary Schools and Teacher
Training Colleges in Tanzania, Ministry of National Education
Dar-es-Salaam 1981, page 20. It is interesting to note that the areas
actually built were larger than those planned during appraisal. No
workshops were planned for Loleza Girls School, but they were built
anyway (Annex 15).



- 20 -
periods weekly; (g) the recurrent costs of operating the shops have not
been studied and insufficient funds have been allocated to ensure efficient
utilization; (h) many students drop some optional subjects during the
school year to ease their workload; (i) one visited project school, Umbve
Boys, was provided with wood and metal shops under Education II. These are
not used for instruction, one is used by the school carpenter and the other
for storage; and (j) the examination system favors academic subjects and
does not give credit for technical/practical subjects.
6.20      The shortage of teachers in the thirteen project schools remains
a major problem. According to the PIS, only one teacher for metalwork has
been posted and nine for wood work. All of the six project schools visited
reported teacher shortages, one with a shortage of 11 out of a total of 58
posts. Shortages were largely in the fields of science, mathematics and
practical subjects. For example, two schools had typing rooms and
typewriters but no teachers. In one case, the required number of periods
of mathematics at 0-level could not be taught due to a teacher shortage.
Supervision missions reportedly had continuously discussed the teacher
supply problem in depth with responsible officers in the MNE.
6.21      The syllabi for wood and metal have been prepared and a common
teachers' guide will soon be available. At least one regional seminar has
been held for headmasters and practical teachers. However, some confusiou
appears to remain: for example, one headmaster states that the cost of
metal would not pose a problem only smaller objects would be made
manufactured while the report of the seminar states that also larger items
could be produced.
6.22      A major delay in introducing workshop courses was caused by the
delivery of sub-standard and incomplete power machines and hand tools.
While the MNE had allocated US$250,000 from the Sixth Education Project for
the re-equipping of the workshops, the PIS had yet to draw up new equipment
lists. In this regard, at two visited schools, wood-working courses had
been introduced in 1983 but only theory had been taught due to the absence
of equipment.
6.23      The quantitative objective of this component was to increase
enrollments in 15 project schools from about 6,900 students to about
9,000. The corresponding increase in enrollments in the 13 schools
retained would have been from 6,010 students to 7,860 when all project
facilities reach full operation. As shown below enrollment in 1983 in
project schools was only 6,422. It should be noted however, not all
facilities were in operation.



- 21 -
ENROLLNENTS IN PROJECT SCHOOLS
Name of School      Type    1980    1981    1982    1983
1.   Azania                Boys    699     671     713      755
2.    Jagvani              Girls   420     417      438     453
3.   Usagara              Co-ed   807      804     843      914
4.   Mawenzi               Co-ed   564     542      543     532
5.   Umbve                 Boys    305     292      291     288
6.    Arusha               Co-ed   423     402      400     396
7.   Morogoro              Girls   277     255      292     308
8.    Tosamaganga          Boys    436     551      544     591
9.   Mbeya                 Co-ed   300     309      291     293
10.  Loleza                Girls   308     294     297      391
11.  Kazima                Co-ed   514     492      492     519
12.  Mwenge                Boys    517     514      514     519
13.  Mvanza                Co-ed   494     459      470     469
Total                           6,064  6.002   6,128   6,422
Source: Ministry of National Education



- 22 -
PART C - Special Studies
6.24      The Rationalization and Upgrading of the Training System for
Accountants and Auditors, and the Establishment of Professional Standards.
At the time of appraisal, there were seven institutions offering comercial
training including accountants/book-keepers in courses varying considerably
in content, duration and quality. Recognizing the qualitative problem as
well as the need to increase output and to maintain professional standards,
the Government in 1972 created the National Board of Accountants and
Auditors (NBAA).
6.25      The Project included: eight man-years of technical assistance to
assist the NBAA in the areas of curriculum development and standardization,
instructional materials, and the assessment of existing facilities and
staff. 5/ In total, nine years and eight months of technical assistance
were financed under the Project and three additional specialists are being
financed under the Sixth IDA Education Project.
6.26      The inclusion of this component in the project should be
considered particularly timely and useful. Discussions with NBAA staff
indicate that the objectives of the component have been largely achieved
even though further consolidation and improvement is required. A brief
summary of some accomplishments follows. In addition, the structure and
functions of the NBAA and a statement of its achievements from 1973 to 1983
are provided in Annexes 6 and 7 respectively.
6.27      The survey of facilities for accountancy training was carried out
by the Ministry of Finance and its report was published in 1973. 61 The
survey partially facilitated the inclusion of the rehabilitation of the
Dar-es-Salam School of Accountancy (DSA) in the Sixth Education Project
and the construction by the Government of a School of Accountancy at
Arusha, to provide National Book-keeping Certificate (NABOCE) level
graduates for the parastatal and commercial sector. The specialists
provided under the project examined the existing facilities at DSA and
assisted in preparing technical papers, study materials, in conducting
courses, seminars and workshops, and in reviewing examinations structures.
In addition, the following accomplishments can be in some measure related
to this project component:
(a)   a national accountancy training and examination scheme was
established in 1974 and the output up to September 1983 has been
as follows: (i) at the technician level, 2,429 candidates have
passed the NABOCE; (ii) at the semi-professional level, the
National Accountancy Diploma (NAD), 563 have passed; (iii) at the
professional level, 215 have passed the Certified Public
Accountants examination;
5/ The project also included funds for office and printing equipment and
transport.
6/ Published as Cabinet Paper No. 12, 1973, Ministry of Finance.



- 23 -
(b)   a new course and examination will soon be liitiated at a lower
level vhich will train primary school leavers to become account
clerks;
(c)   from 1975 to 1983, a series of review courses at the three levels
have been run on a part-time (15 weeks) and full-time block
release (four to nine weeks depending on the level) basis for
employed personnel. During the period, 20,783 participants were
reported in attendance; 7/
(d) in terms of professional standards, the Tanzania Statements of
Standard Accounting Practice was approved by the Governing Board
of the NBAA in June. 1983 and published in September 1983. In
addition to numerous brief teaching materials, the NBAA has
produced a textbook detailing standards on advanced accountancy.
The draft on auditing standards will be completed around June,
1984 with approval of the final version expected about June,
1985;
(e) the NBAA has continuously held workshops and seminars on
professional matters which have been well-attended; and
(f) the Board has encouraged the Ministry of National Education to
introduce commercial classes in general secondary schools and
assisted in establishing the standards for such courses.
6.28      However, the NBAA has not been without problems.  The examination
standards with its generally poor and fluctuating results have been
criticized. It has also encountered difficulties in carrying out reforms
in the field of accountancy. A major and continuing problem is the Board's
inability to recruit and retain qualified professional staff due to
constraints on salary levels and other benefits.  The production of
teaching materials has been limited by a shortage of funds and staff.
Since June 1980, the operations of the NBAA have been particularly hampered
by a static budgetary allocation in spite of the widening of its activities
and the effects of inflation.
6.29      The Survey of Educational Facilities.  Although the survey
required six mar.-years of technical assistance Instead of four and covered
only seven private schools, nine primary teacher training colleges, and
only 56 of the then existing 83 Government secondary schools, the resulting
two-volume docunent 8/ contains a wealth of useful information. Thus,
this component is eonsidered as extremely worthwhile.  An extract of the
s9m1ary of findings and recommendations is provided in Annex 14. These
7/ This does not imply 20,783 individuals, since many participants repeat
courses and some proceed to higher level courses.
8/ Survey of Educational Facilities in Secondary Schools and Teacher
Training Colleges in Tanzania, MNE, Dar-es-Salaam, 1981.



- 24 -
include the fact that the Government schools are under-utilized and that
approximately 21,000 additional students could be accomodated with some
physical adjustments, additional teaching staff and books, and the use of
the rotation system. All Government schools have major maintenance
problems and most have electrical, wazer and sanitary deficiencies. Of the
56 Government schools surveyed, 53 were found to have inadequate hardware
and software for the teaching of science. Another negative aspect is that
the jresent building costs of Government secondary schools appear to be far
too high. Annex 15 consists of an extract from the main text of the first
volume critical of the new science lecture-demonstration rooms,
agricultural units, wood and metal workshops.
6.30      Primary Education Subsector Review.  The review was undertaken by
Tanzanian officials with some assistance from a Bank Group consultant. The
results of the review were to be based primarily on a survey of 300 primary
schools throughout the country: actually surveyed were 170 or about 1.7S of
all primary schools in the country. The survey report states that the
general objective of the survey review was -to get clues on the direction
of changes and influences in reaching the goal of Universal Primary
Education- (UPE). 9/ The specific objectives were listed as follows: (a)
to determine the extent to which the UPE program has succeeded in terms of
pupil enrollment and attendance; (b) to determine what factors were
considered while building and expanding schools; (c) to determine the
physical facilities available in the schools; (d) to determine the adequacy
of staffing in primary schools; (e) to assess the supply of instructional
materials available in primary schools; and (f) to review the curriculum
changes that have been effected as a result of UPE program.
6.31      Weaknesses in the questionnaire, as noted by the consultant,
include the lack of means to identify within school variations which might
influence educational outcomes, such as differences between individual
teachers, classes and students. Also the reliance on one person, the head
teacher, to complete the questionnaire was considered doubtful, and the
consultant also noted the problem to check the accuracy of the replies and
the fact that the survey made no provisions to control the socio-economic
background of students or teachers in analyzing the results.
6.32      To overcome the above deficiencies, the consultant designed two
additional questionnaires intended to survey individual teachers and
students. However, the instrument for teachers was not used nor was the
intelligence test for students administered.
6.33      On the other hand, the review did provide useful data on the
physical status and condition of sample primary school facilities, teacher
qualifications and distributions, pupil-teacher ratios, the availability of
instructional materials, and curriculum implementatiou.
9/ Tanzania Education Mission to Review Primary Sub-Sector Survey
(April 28-May 11, 1980). office Memorandum from W. Loxley EDC (Cons.)
to 0. Markgren (RHEA) dated June 10, 1980.



- 25 -
6.34      Although it is stated in the conclusions that the data drawn from
such a small sample may not be representative of primary schools throughout
the country, the report confirms specifically what was generally known
about the primary system. Among the positive aspects presented are the
improved net enrollment ratio due to the UPE campaign, satisfactory school
attendance rates, the efforts of the parents and the Government in the
self-help school construction scheme, and the quantitative success of
supplying teachers during the L'PE campaign. On the negative side, the
author's report cites over-crowded classrooms, incomplete buildings in
which classes are being held, unsanitary conditions, the shortage of school
furniture and instructional materials, the low educational level of a high
percentage of the teachers, the need for more staff housing, with a final
conclusion that the curriculum had not been adequately covered in all
grades.
6.35      The report includes a number of pertinent recommendations to
reduce the above problems and, in terms of further research, it recommends
a study on the core subjects as regards curriculum coverage,
appropriateness of instructional materials, and of pupils' achievement.
6.36      Thus, the relative small investment in the component was well
justified. This would be particularly true if some of the recommendations
are implemented.
Bank Group Performance
6.37      The Bank should have been more reluctant to include in the Fifth
Education Project two components which did not meet or only met in part the
objectives expected at the time of appraisal.
6.38      In the case of the VMTP, during preparation/appraisal the
immediate benefits appeared to outweigh most reservations related to the
difficulties of implementing such a massive program and little could be
found in the records about the social and political implications related to
the resettlement issue. The high risk factors mentioned in the appraisal
report might have been minimized through appropriate action covenants in
the Development Credit Agreement.
6.39      With respect to the diversification of secondary education, the
under-utilization of science and practical teaching facilities could have
been foreseen in the light of Bank Group knowledge of the Sector, this
being the Fifth Education Project. The project could have dealt
simultaneously with the training of practical subjects teachers, knowing
that these did not exist. Furthermore, no appropriate strategy was
developed for this crucial area and the ultimate success of this component
was left largely unresolved.



- 26 -
6.40      The project was supervised by 15 missions which were timely, and
Bank Group Staff demonstrated a continuous understanding of the problems of
implementation and took actions to alleviate them to the extent possible.
The VMTP component demanded much of the time of supervision missions and
this is reflected both in reports and related correspondence.
6.41      With respect to the Project Taplementatlion Section of the
Ministry of Education, despite the number of projects, the interaction
between missions and the PIS produced positive results and was largely
successful even if the reduced manpower within the section left the
missions with less leverage to accelerate implementation. A somewhat
similar situation existed with the Project Executive Group of the VMTP.
Thus, Bank Group efforts are considered to have produced positive results
in what could be termed as a difficult environment.



TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Impbementation Secffon
I   1~~~~~~~~I
l~~~~~~~~~~~~PoK l    _               l                               l
SeirPoLgmnlOtu,. omo    PO tACCtot            Cho INdn Adlff                   PSM&Ilal
F                      ll
1-91[X TSiEC"n &                                                                                            "tWgFfuL  13OTCLCMCw m
GooN   Fradng  Eulen.     Dg  &DtnCtLkofleoc                             onLdo     Ahhdi
Source: PIS/Minlstry of Educatfonu d S n              l
& EkpcWoW    Stgvevors~~d "*26 
Enghm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



THE STAFFING OF THE PROWECT IHPLEENTATIWO
SECTION AS OF FEBRUARY 1983
Category                   No. Required                           Present                             Shortfall            Remarks
Dan              Tanz.              Other
1. Project Administration                     4                                    2                                   2                2 on studies
2. Chief Building Administrator               I                  _                 1                  _                -
3. Design Coordinator                         1                  1                                  _                 _
h. Architects                                 6                  3                 -                  1                2                 1Tong. an  tuCie
5. Asat. Architects                           6                 -                  3                 _                 3
6. structural Engineer                        2                                                                        I 1  _  1
7. Asat. Structural Engineer                  2                 _                  _                  _                2
8. Sanitary Engineer                          3                  1                 _                 _                 2
9. Asat. Sanitary Engineer                    3                 _                  _                 _                 3
10. Electrical Engineer                        3                 1                  1                                   I 1
11. Aset. Electrical Engineer                  3                 -                  1                                  2
12. Land Surveyors                             2                  1                 -                                   I 1
13. Assistant Land Surveyors                   2                 -                                                      1
14. Quantity Surveyors.                                          2                  - ZTo T_  _. an
studies
15. Assistant Quantity Surveyors               6                 -                  1                 _
16. Construction Coordinator                   I                 -                  -                 1
17. Building Inspectors                       22                 7                  3                  t               11
18. Draughtaen                                 5                                    I                 _                 '
19. Furniture Designs and                      3                 1                  1                 _                 1
Administration
20. Procurc,nt Officers                        4                 -                  2                 _                 2
21. Clearing and Forvarding                    6                  -                 2                 -
Totals                               91                17                 20                 3                51                                    L
Source: An evaluation of the Project Implementation, Ministry of National  Education (ELD(U)
January - February 1983. Appendiz 4



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Shuoture of EducatHon, 1984
AGRlCL%nM IWJCAN2
Clfcale Carb   d~   a
................................................................................ ..u.........hu........................ ...............................................................................
C~~~~~~~~~DWC
PMl
I#Chrhod SeWtW
OcA J rw                             n  Canter
UCtaVAL IRUNNO & OcCkd
G4cMNIcAL 1 1ca1oN      1234567                          1234                    56**   
VwalldCalm            MedlDu. ACs uM        i
ri InCobpri           VrC hlhlta
tllW" Wlh*^             TeolnF
1           ~~~      ~~P.LE.          SWA .
GUMALj rtrCAON                                                                      6W_ 14
A4                           AtMENI a                                                N'a
MANAGEMUO &                                             Technickr  bou v
ACCOUNIANCY TRAIMNG                                                           Col1       W,           Y
Tcrkbc   NubnaA~
HMH EALhICCAIIONNmr,iA
Gtods C  Gmde A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AwIGad 
MACHER MAIMNG
sotr P4,yvng ur                                  PLI     lnyeMEan.to
h5nhstrv df Notional Education                   WFA  - NaWoinal ScIS ot CwOfeut
W8  - N6a Yg SCollf0 C
HrXn1 rrl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



TANZANIA EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
Comparatte Enrollment Data for Public Schools
by Leal, Grade and Sex
1961.1971 and 1982
1962    1971    1961                                                                                    1961    1971    1902                                   Fr_m
1952       19611 1971 11962
Uilt yea                877     624       70                 MALS                                    FMALES                        6      75    194                    10711       6    ii    is
Swcondo"    FWm  6 4        375    1240      251                                                                                      28      196    413                   1788        9    14    23
5        1640   1364       211                                                                                      25     284    481                    21211      11    16    23
4        5788   6276    1121                                                                                       482    1770   2594                   3am2        30    25    81
3        5897   5375    1540                                                                                       548    1947   2866                    8763       26    27    33
2        5°09   5426    2614                                                                                      1019   2197   2934                     Om         29    29    33
1        6034   5554    2%7                                                                                       1229   2016   3062                     9116       29    27    34
...... Sidi   Ivil  23' !791    g  |    fi                           i                  l419331                                                                 23    34    451
VI  25       2       l                                                                                   __                    _481861  24    J7    47
V                                                                                                     ~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~332699  6941 12  25    38    48
24V                                           65152   30239                                          239319 46512   30237                         32    40    49
866    6556     34787                                       229489                            46294        35    40    80
23577840                   969           L67647    4345            74                                                              471029       36    41    50
118 2U361     | x^vsSA,'.,'',' 72773  48613  2906 6                                                        49741        40    42 
375           300            225           150            76             0             75            150           225           300            375
EntmNm nt Nurtmn In Thwunds
Mlnlht  d Notlord Eduoatlon
$irdaal PkoWrv Depexm-nt                                                                                                                                                              W.1*-26148



-31-                                                          AUl S
,MMW    ABMSCZ (ZXMU AND mLOw_S) AI canm
1. TobieciL AJgitanb 1inded 7r0. tbe Stb IDA Pp:t
L1 AL aini.erd by the PIS
1.1.1  SUWveY or education isecohdary schools
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aount   Ssiftt OU   1%Th.L-B2 T_Sbs.)
Rame of ftpertSpecializatis.                  Contract Peried        3baw-Ibtba       .?.Sbs.           US.
[ 1 .'_ o_  _zet           .__      _   _   _   _                                                             .__      _ _   _
1K. NIlmo                     Genera Educator             978-19k1               36
2. T. IKaivula                Architect                  1978-1981               36
Total                                                                        72              3.960.0         4tLO
1_L.2  Primary education gub-setor evr
1.   . Dm bi (NNE)            Resear gvauation.
2. S. TMne (MM)                                                                  N .. NA.
3. y. LTAley (Cn. . Cps                                contract with cps         NA.                          (not charged to project)
Total
1.2 Administered by the xBAA
1. Y. Sridbara                   tion                     oT-379                 is                               22.143.-
2. D. Fields                  Auditing                   6t8-5t79                12                               215M.-
3. R_ Din-s az49/78                                                               6                                5.69.-i
4. A. Benedict                Accoun                     22/78-6/82              42?                              9r7o.-
5. C. Ardbana£ri                                           T    8                40                               65.a9L.-
Total                                                                                          &T118  1.o.126  200,869.-
W Reviev Pa.l
Erternal Consultants
1. J. Schermeborn             Pofessor                   5t79-7179               1'                               6,T50.-
2. N. Holzer                     -                           -                   ii                               6,750.-
3. X. Whaefo                  Accountant                                         13                               6.750.-
Inera Consultants
Ia.  . mine                   Gen. NW. Tanzania                                  1                                  .A
Investment Bank
5. X. Ardhanari               Director. Board of                                 1                                IA
Internl Trade
6. Sr. Imeds                  Dire:tor. N.S.T.                                                                    N l.A.
Centre. Nuanza
Total                                                                        9                 166.050       20,250,-
Grand Total 1.1+1.2                                                            12               1.813,1-6       221,119.-
W] The exchange rates applied in itse  1 are SI - 8.2 T,Sbs. ad in item 3 - 8.Ia T.Sba. amounts Lre rounded tO the nearest dollar and shillizng.
21 continues to be rinanced under Credit 861-TA



-32                                                A
p i
TEXmr8 L AssF?N3 Lz_aws & 1rW15s) AND ooep
2. Technical Assistance 3bmded hr the lbrdie GrmiV ('gp)
specialization                         Contract Paeiod            uma-1Antba          -     Amout
T.Sh.              JS.$
1. Deputy Director                                 Noa.75-June 82(?)           7T9
2. Finance Controller                              Sept. 75-Oct. 80             61
3. EvaluStion L P2.aning Ofier                    Nao.75 - Feb. 8o.             63
k. Training Officer                               Nov. 75-Dec. 79               I9
5. Ectension Aide Production Officer              Sept. 75-Dec. T9              51
Total                                                                      303*
3.  Technical Assistance to the PI5
3.1 Exoerts
Specialization                           Na.              Donor                    Aow rt8.4 T.Shs.)
________________     T.Shs.       I  __ _ US. _  __  __
1. Chief Architect/Chief bldg. Adir.                    I              DANIAD             Pafid directly      by DAJIIU1
2. Architects                                           3                -                     if
3. Engineers                                            3                "
I. Qutity Surveyors                                     2                                        
5_ Building Inspector                                   5       .                                                 i
6. Design Coordinator                                   1 I
T. Construction Coordinator                             1 I
8. Senior Architect                                     1           NETIEMAES                i56,B40            54.385.71
9. Equipmnnt Specialist                                 1               IDIA              Paiid directly      by IMIA
10. ProJect Accountant                                  1                IDA                 I56.840            54.385.T3.
Partial TOtal                                     19                                    913.680. '        10.71.-
3.2 Fellovehiwm
Field of Stuy          Place               Period           Funded by   |mbt
1. A. Chande                       Quantity Surveyig      Britain             1978-1981          DANIDA           Paid directly to
Institutions
2. J. Mfwembe                                                                 1  l982-1981
3. T. Tlaule                       General Construction                       1977-1980
4. K. Nuawukizi                    Qutity Surveying                           19TT-1982
5. E. Lyii                         Architecture                               m97-1*985
6. J. Shonde                                                                  1983-1986
7. E.  Mbaha                       Civil 2 6gineering     U.S.A.              1978- T
8. r. Nyong'anyila                                                            1978- T
Source: Compiled  y the Mission from dAta provided by the PIS. Supervision Reports .  3ME Correspondence files,
and an Evaluation Report of the PIS, Jsnuary-February, 1983.
I/ From 1973 through 1981, Danida ban allocated 1h0 man-years of technical assistance to the PIS
at a coat of 11. 16 million Danish Xroners. Another 55  an-years was allocated for the period
198i-s986.
21~ The total is for 6 nan-years.



- 33 -
ANNEX 6
TANZANIA
THE NATIONAL BOARD OF ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS (NBAA)
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER OF FINANCE
GOVERNING BOARD          BOARD'S COMMITTEES
CHAIRMAN              - EXECUTIVES
SCOPO1I/      -----          MEMBERS         ____   - EDUCATION
REGISTRAR - SECRETARY         - EXAMINATION
_    l            _     ~~~~~~- DISCIPLINqARY
BOARD'S SECRETARY    l
REGISTRAR  
MANPOWER AND                                  FINANCE AND ACCOUNTS
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION                                  DIVISION
- Administrative Services                           - Financial Management
- Office Management                                 - Budgeting
- Manpower Management                               - Budgetary Control
- Manpower Development
- Staff Welfare
EDUCATION, RESEARCH          PROFESSIONAL           PROFESSIONAL
AND                   EXAMINATIONS           REGISTRATION AND
PLANNING DIVISION              DIVISION             WELFARE DIVISION
- Research & Publication     - Examination Planning - Standardization
- Curriculum Development     - Exams Organization   - Professional Registra-
- Part-time Tuition Program    and Administration      tion and Procedures
- Practical Training         - Technical Services   - Professional Conduct
- Standardization            - Exams Research        - Professional Welfare
- Student Record             - Exams Techniques      - Post-qualification
- Training Coordination         and Standards          Education
- Candidates Records   - Research & Development
- Professional Records
I/    Standing Committee of Parastatal Organization
Source: NBAM



- 34 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 1
NE" ACCONPLISHMENTS 1973-1983
(THE CHAIRMAN' S MESSAGE - NBAA TENTH ANNIVERSARY) 1,
As Chairman of the National Board of Accountants and Auditors of Tanzania,
I have pleasure in submitting to you this report on the progress made by
the Board during the ten years of its existence and its proposals for the
future.
The main achievements of the Board during these first ten years of
operational existence appear to be as follows:
(1)      Establishment of a profession of accountants and auditors in the
country, by registering them in appropriate categories, and by
taking responsibility for their performance, conduct, discipline
and welfare.
(2)      Maintenance of an atmosphere of learning and research in the
profession by conducting regular Seminars, Workshops, and
Conferences, initiating research and making appropriate
pronouncements on generally accepted accounting and auditing
principles and practices.
(3)      Coordination of the accountancy training efforts of seven
different Training Institutions operating in the country, within a
carefully established training pyramid, and attempt at controlling
the quality and duration of such training.
(4)      Evaluation of the qualifications in accountancy and auditing
awarded within the country and outside it for the purpose
establishing as well as proclaiming their comparative worth and
significance.
(5)      Establishment of a National Accountancy Examination Scheme
carefully tailor-made to meet the specific requirements of this
country and calculated to produce output at three progressive
layers of accounting responsibility and the regular conduct of
these examinations in a manner that continues to comand respect
and confidence in these awards.
1/ Extracted from the document: Appraisal of the NBAA and its Achievement,
1973-1983, NBAA, 16 September 1983. 33 pages.



-35 _                             ANL1
Page 2
(7)     Making a significant dent in the problem of acute shortage of
accounting manpower at technicians level by regularly conducting
an Induction Course of two weeks' duration which is proving both
very popular and beneficial.
In my opinion, each of the above mentioned achievements is of considerable
significance. The National Board of Accountants and Auditors will do well
if during the next ten years of its existence could only consolidate these
achievements and become even more effective in each of these areas.
More specifically I would expect the NBAA to concentrate on the
following areas:
(a)     with a view to remedying the present scarcity in accounting
manpower and progressively attaining self sufficiency in this area
within specific time frame, the National Board should take stock
ofthe existing manpower situation, set targets at realistic levels
and muster all its resources towards achieving those targets in a
more effective manner;
(b)     with a view to significantly improving the quality of accounting
function in the country concentrate on specific steps calculated
toachieve this end, such as assisting in the establishment of
simple accounting systems, monitoring the quality of accounting
function in selected parastatals, and focussing on providing
workshops in functional areas where the staff of a cross section
of enterprises are found wanting;
(c)      take meaningful steps calculated to bring about greater
coordination and if possible more stringent control of the
accountancy training effort within the country;
Cd)     now that accounting standards or at least some of them have been
promulgated, take meaningful steps to ensure that they are fully
complied with;
(e)     produce accounting study materials of proper quality and
orientation for use in all the accountancy training institutions,
so that there could be standardization of the training efforts
within Tanzania.
Let us wish the National Board of Accountants and Auditors of Tanzania
every success in achieving these targets.



SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Planned and Actual Implementatfon Chart
Year   1976            1977                1978                 1979                19JO                1 91                 i92
Inittutons   <Quftw 3   4    1    2    3    4    1   2    3   4    1   2    3    4    1 12    3    4    1    2    3   4    1    2    3    4
B1          __ hun                               __ -L           _; -               I:  J          !   T-                                                                
8.2  Azonla             _.  4_ ,_                              M W1 _
B.3  Jongwani              __    -W ._  __ ,_.                 mw;
BA   Tosamoganga             W         -   - :             -
6.5  Mwenzl                                        w -              ,_. _   ,_  _n _                         _W w
6.B 13 gonsera                     rF ot Constructed            _
B.?  Motogoro                         ,-m                  =    -
6.8  Mwanza                          MW              F- -             - rn(
8.9 KoI1  -   - - _                                                                            __ ___
Ri~o Usagara                         MW~ -AW M j    -A W 
0.11  Mbeyo                                                 nr                                            nr         nr 
6.12 Ldoeza or 
6.13 Ndanda   Not Constructed           J 
6.14 Mwange                                     -- MW     W          r     =   -rn  rn   n                         rn  r MWrn1 MW
6.15 Umowe                                        -, --w  P-  IW                                          - W- WA-P
Fumniture                       IWrnrA                                                                        - W`- MW
Equipm-ent                      Mw     = PM I~W  Fd~         1~                    pmv -- I
inPlanned
Actuol                                                                                                      Wo)dd Dank-26144



-37 -
ANNEX 9
03IWM ANU1M CP EsMM MI ACMNL AWAS IN M@
Ap.ruia'al  Facilities                                     Built Facilities
I                                                        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
0  .9t   9    0. .0                  a  m   1        ..        P. ~         U
M~~~~~~i                                d  -i
a..1.    U         4          -.                  5.  0   U         42:           -.4  EOW
(a)                                                  (b)
U0.  Sec*zs: Sdmol
5-I  Azui  (C&-Id)
i )N1 t6ities IW  1210    80   120 -440  SW    162                           HZ  1M   -    -10 --            206GM   112
Waii) ewmic     - - - - - - - ---  - R.&. v                                              --- - - - - - - -
5-2   w  eliie  -4 40                                      092D101.612 490-- - - - - -80 1306  I3N
enw.nim23    V   - - V   - V   V   V  V  -                 a..- - -   V   V   V   V   V   V   - - na.j -
W     tes-iiD2D               - -            -   - w40  Q80104 306 AS  -  IM2-              - - - -40   797  166
ii0imVeaion     V - -   V   Vn.&. ?   -   -   -   V   V   V   -   -   -   -   U.S.
5-5  ?swm (Co-Nd)
iL) YAwi1ities    - 2D7D                   - ---40 480 IM306M5 -I    - 02                                        797  166
ii)Camerslioa    V   - - V - - - -  V  V-ne                          -         V   -   -   V -   V   V   -   ne
D,-7(Grs
i)!kwftmtzm1W   IW   I0800 SD             -100-         30160 .162 162  02102102-2--    20 754  U9
iifCcovendow                          V --      na.e.-- -                                             - - -ns..
"mm  (CO-si)
Mm '&1iie          20                  - -10- 40 5100   36265  IM  -   -- 102 --                            40  795137
Orbave.miam   .V -           V   V   V   -   -   - V   -.:V    -   -   -    V   V               - - V    V        .m
51-9  maxim (eA2-si)
O N  faiUCm  20                          404807250 306 2       -65-                  - -40  81.1  175
ji)0MwUEna~  V   -   -   -   V   V   V   V V--               . V   -   -   -   V   V   V    WV           -       n
im   aiie   20  2D-              - -           -   40 480 10611626MO-  IM                10550114
iWnuwerzinn     V   -   -   V   V - -   V   -            -n.e.  -   -   -   V   -   V   V   V   V   - - ne
3-12 tlali (02r1s)
i) Mm    Ciem-            - - -               - --40   40 .106 16a 162-- -10 - - 2   448 1120
ii)Cbmexuioaw    v   -   - v V        V   V   V   V--..V   V   V   V                                             ns a.
3-13 MUm   *
j)kkshd.ii- 120  120-- - -                             -40320-- - - - --                                          
i) ew i-1iim   - n         210-- - -                 -40 30 1%   Iwo W5  -102-- - - - -595   212
iMJmwmaiamo         -   -   -   V   V   V          V          -V  - - - - -                                        
9-1 Uu5ve (Bp_n..v                                                                                       - - -n
i)  m   cilkimm- no IM     -IM   80W 60        --     50.         ---1            6363--             -40268         53
~~.: 3-6 Liinli S.S- 0  tO XW~~~~~~3                                 V  'ndi.-at.e conversion from general
B-14 Matm SAL Ounlpofbo                            .                          Cliassrooms to specialized facilities.
Smnm: Alpaiaal Rept and PW/lEnitzty of 1atin.u1 Fdhciai.



ANNE 10
-38-
SUMKARY OF TOTAL PROJECT COST
BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
(Including Contingencies, Exluding Taxes)
(in 000's)
Appraisal Estimates 21      Actual Costs 2/  x Difference
TSh . ........US$,     TSh .US$
1.  Civil Works                83,592       10,384    32,407       3,746      - 64%
2.  Furniture                   2,068          257      3,320        386      + 50Z
3.  Equipment/Vehicles         19,110        2,374    17,490       2,022      - 15%
4.  Project Administration      9,861        1,225    16,634       1,934      + 58%
5.  Technical Assistance        6,118          760      6,280        726      -  5%
Total           120,749        15,000    76,131       8,814      - 41%
Notes
1.  Exchange rate US$1 = T.Sh. 8.05
2.  Exchange rate fluctuating from US$1 = 8.3 to 9.3 T.Sh.



0FALUSNX CF 01GF7J%LY ES1IMA2ED    S No WmI.L asis
(IN IRI. SR. GUD S
Civil  IwrkA                     Furniture_ _U_pst                                              l:nicul MA tUa                    Poct ALftatratim                          TOXI
cAtqry   Project Itm                1            2         2/1       1            2      2/1         1           2        2/1
Aprhial    ktual          2      A,pruisal   Atual                Aisal     ctual         S             1         2        2/1          1       2         2/1         1          2       211
App1W5i4I   Atuul        2       AiMiss1  Icbal          I     AMI5I    kAtml    I
A                Villm             43,607     10,285       23          -        -         -       9.587      5,855       61                    _ _     _             9,515   15,234        160      62,7li     31,374      50
S1    eccsiuSdm1s
-1        .       )                 2,764      1,645       59       169       333       221         528        770      145                      _-                               -          -      3.441      2,746       79
B-2 Aunis (Boys)
1-3  Janu   i (Girls)               4,458      3,236       72        342      370        93       1,609      1,50D       93                _         _        _          _        _          _      6.4        5J056       78
54   Tbaftg        (Boys)           2,6C       1,361       52        105      140       133         696        70D      IOD                _         _        -          -        -          -      3.403      2,231       64
5-5   Ibnui (C,-GdS)                2,442      2,201       90        207     5C0        241         829        740       89                          _        _          _        _          _      3,478      3,441       93
8   Kiaasers                        2,838         36         *       163        CN,cb11d            660        780     li1                _          _        _          _        _         _       3,661        818       22
5-7   Ibroio (CO-U)                 2,870      1,938       67        209      140        66         595                 137                                                                         3.674      2,898       78
8-8  Man   (Co-(d)                  2,950      2,469       83        193      520       269         830        90D      Ica                                                                         3 _  _  -  -  3973  3859  S7
"9   %saisl (CO-M)                  3,02b      2,074       68        2C9      3S0       172         871        685       78                          _        _          _        _                 4,1C5      3,119       75
5-10  Wapra (Cm-M)                  2,484      2,409       96        149     520        348         922        810       87                                              -        -         -       3,551      3,7393     105
B-11 1bw (CSrEd) (
B-12  Iolea (Girls)J                3,628      2.378       65        223      370       165       1,047      1,570      169               _          _        _          _        _         _       4898       431J        1
5-13  Nb3uha (CO-M)                 1,813         62         *       I04       -          -         629        855      140               _          _                   _        _          _      2,56         947       37
5-14   H_o  (Boys)                  2,538      I,IU        43        193        -         -         721        69OD      95                                   _          _        _         _       3,452      1,803       52
B-15  1w   (b)                      2,442      1,219       49        149     120         so         612        785     1i                 -          _        -          -        _         _       3,203      2,1215      66
Suir-Total,                  3S,857     22,122       60      2,395    3,320       138      10,547     11,635      110                                                                        49,799    37,077        74
Poject L6idnistratixu wMd
Tcdinical Assstanc                                                                                  392                   -           4,144      4,160      t0o        445    1,40D        316      4,981      5,960      Ul
TouAl Part 8                 3,657      22,122       60       2395    3,320        138      10,939    11,635      106           4,144      4,h10      14G        445    1,400        316     54,780    42,637        77
&-   1hciaul &Brd of
/-cQtante rad Auitoin             -          -        -         .-        -         -          40                   - _,220                2,12D       65          -        -         -       3,260      : Z         65
oCal Cost of PrOet
(Parts A,B an C)                   80,4'4     32,407       40      2,395    3,320       138      20,566     17,490      85            7.3S4      6,280       85      9,960   16,634       167     12D.749    76,131       63
Ibiete: * Sremb y Schools 5  aud B-U wer not built throuh lack of interest an the part of cntretors-
Costs dwm wur civil wuiw of dtee tw   -qa- ts ii for miror cerarirns.
**quipmt for Project irplq. tirn Wit of HEM  is incluwd in actual equaipt eotAl but could not be extracted fren
Secodry W100l equi,Nt,
1/   Gover.nment 3,i,v conflrmed  tli,ar  this figure sho.uld he T.Sh. 20 mIILIcin



ANNEX   12
-40-
P.15. BULWDING COST INDX 975-1983
340-
320 -
300
280
260
240
~220
200
180
160
1975       '76         '77         78          79           0'83
(at January 1)
YEAR
Sou,ce PmWsc romewntotn Sectlon/MlnIsty d Natonal Education
Wbrld Bank-26143



ENROLLMENTS AND PASSES IN THE VMr TRAINIRG COURSES PER VHTC 2.
Course           Kisarave             Kizumbi                 Mbulu                Ruaha               Hwanhala              Tengeru                Grand Totalu
No.2
E           P        E           P           E         P          E        P          E           P         E         P          E            P
1           29          29        54          20          51        31        33        22         46          30       -
2            42          29       47          41          56        31         37       24         42          38        -         _
3            36         29        50          42          40        34         28       21         38          24        -         _
4            41         31        45          31          36        31         34       24         35          32        -         _
5            41          38       53          49          34        34         36       36         32          32       -          _
6           -           -         21          15          45        33         19        14        42          30        -         _
7            -          -         50          35          -         -          38       32         -           -         -         _
8            -          -         63          45          _         _-                  - _48                  43        _
9            -           -         46         44          -         _          17        13        36          32     _
Total          189         156       429         322        262       194        242       186       314         251        -          -         1,436         1,109
1- 9
10           -           -         63          63          60        59         71       69         46          45        143        102        388           338
Total           189         156    1492           385        322       253        313       255        360        296        148        102    1         82     1,i47
I - 10
Source: Compiled by the Mission from VM1P Progress Reports
j  Tengeru is a Ujamas and Cooperative Development Institute, not a VMIC.
It is operated directly by Prime Ministers Office.
2/ The first nine courses consisted of retraining existing field staff as VMTs in                                                                                   A
fourteen veek courses vhile the tenth veek took in largely Form IV school leavers                                                 .
for a nine-month courses.



-42                           mANEX 14
Page 1
EmACT 1/
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECONDARY SCHOOL
EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES SURVEY
1.       Remaining Institutions Included In the workplan - 27 government
secondary schools, 15 private secondary schools and 7 Grade A
Colleges of National Education - should be surveyed. In addition,
all remaining private secondary schools should also be surveyed.
2.       In 83 existing government secondary schools It is possible to
increase the enrolment by roughly 21,400 students (15,757 exact
figures + 5,600 estimate figure) on the following conditions:
(i)   40 pupils per class in Form I - IV and 30 pupils per clas
in Form V-VI.
(ii)  A rotation system is consistently used.
(iii) Some new facilities are provided and some existing
facilities are converted.
(iv)  Adequate supply of water, electricity etc. is secured.
(v)   An extensive maintenance and repair programme is carried
out. (This is urgently needed in all circumstances).
(vi)  Additional furniture, equipment and books are provided.
(vii) Additional teachers are provided and their housing problems
are solved.
3.       Proper distribution of teachers.
4.       A thorough analysis of the existing teaching cadre should be
carried out.
5.       The number of auxiliary' staff at the schools should be
standardized.
6.       In-service courses for craftsmen and kitchen personnel should be
arranged regularly.
1/       Survey of Educational Facilities in Secondary Schools and Teachers
Training Colleges in Tanzania, Ministry of National Education, Dar
Es Salaam, 1981. First Volume.



-43-                           ANNEX 14
Page 2
7.       The heads of the schools should be provided with qualified office
personnel.
8.       The building costs are very high due to a too sophisticated
design, the use of expensive building materials and generous space
norms.
The following steps could be taken to considerably reduce the
building costs:
(i)    A new design of low-cost secondary schools Is used in the
future (one-storey buildings, simple structure).
Cii)   Local material is used (burnt bricks, natural stones,
wooden trusses).
(iii)  Local manpower is used.
(iv)   Less generous space norms are applied.
(v)    No separate assembly halls are built.
(vi)   Dining halls are designed for at least double sitting.
{vii)  No space is provided, which is not efficiently used.
Cviii) Less sophisticated and complicated fixed equipment is
provided.
(ix)   More day schools are erected.
9.       The diversification programme demands a certain (not too small)
size of a school.
If the future policy will be to establish a number of small
secondary-day schools, the concent of diversified secondary
education has to be thoroughly examined.
Various approaches are possible:
Ci)   No work-oriented subjects in Form I and II at small
(one-stream) schools.
(ii)   Small schools could be allowed to provide only academic
subjects.
(iii) A simplified diversification programe - demanding limited
specialized space (multipurpose rooms), equipment and
teahcers could be considered.
10.      The rotation system provides an efficient use of teaching space.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
11.      The double shift system combined with the rotation system gives a
maximum rate of utilization.
12.      The possibilities of enrolling more day students in existing
schools should be mapped out and the concept of school mapping
should be applied before locations of new secondary schools are
determined. Regional school authorities should be Involved in the
school mapping exercise.
13.      Wooden furniture, which can be locally made should be provided to
the schools. Broken furniture should be repaired.
14.      All schools should be equirped in accordance with the Ministry's
equipment lists.
The serious shortage of books should be urgently dealt with.
New kitchen equipment is needed in many schools. Sufficient office
equipment should be provided.
Broken equipment should be repaired. Unused equipment should be
removed.
15.      Host institutions are faced with water supply problems for one
reason or another.
Due to the water supply problems the schools often also suffer
from sewerage problems.
There are also other reasons for the sometimes serious probleas
with the sewerage system.
The system with pit latrines seems to be the only durable
solution.
16.      Schools with their own generators suffer from limited supply of
electricity due to erratic and insufficient supply of diesel oil.
New electrical installations are needed in most of the schools and
in older schools the whole wiring system needs replacement.
Arrangements for the use of wood and charcoal in the kitchens have
to be made as the supply of conventional fuels has become
irregular, insufficient or completely stopped.
Emergency or temporary kitchens should be erected.
17.      All schools should have a telephone.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
The suitable kind of vehicles should be alloted to the schools.
More bicycles and motor-cycles should be provided in order to
reduce transportation costs.
Wherever possible, transport pools should be established.
Grounded vehicles should be repaired.
18.      All institutions are in urgent need of maintenance and repair;
buildings as welI as technical installations, furniture and
equipment.
Lack of funds, material and personnel has up till now hampered the
planned maintenance activities.
As extended maintenance and repair programme will soon be launched
by the PIS in co-operation with DANIDA.
Some laboratories will be repaired and supplied with new equipment
under the 7th IDA agreement.
A maintenance programme for furniture and equipment should be
considered.
When maintaining and repairing the water closets and sewerage
systems the specific situation of each school should be
considered. If the water supply and other problems are not solved
it is uneconomical to repair the sanitation system. Pit latrines
might be the best solution.
Minor maintenance and repair work should be the responsibility of
the school involving the students as part of self-reliance
activities.
In the future all maintenance and repair work should be handled at
a local level.
Whenever possible, major maintenance and repair work should be
co-ordinated with conversions and other actions needed to cater
for an increased enrolment.
19.      Basic hygiene is a necessity at a school.
To solve the problem with water shortage and broken sanitation
installations many schools have built pit latrines. Some are good
but too many are poor and unhygienic.



-46 -                         AMNEX 14
Page 5
As a result of erratic fuel (diesel oil) supply, the schools
havebeen forced to use wood and cha coal for cooking.
Special emergency or temporary kitchens have been erected but in
most cases they are poor and it is not possible to keep them
clean.
The PIS bas designed a temporary kitchen and a pit latrine unit of
good standard, which could be built at the schools as
self-reliance projects.
20.      The building costs of a European type of buildings (concrete,
steel, glass, etc. as materials) have almost doubled during three
years, 1978-1981.
The present building costs of government secondary schools, T.Sh.
4,000/m2, are far too high.
By using cheaper, local materials and simple structures and by
reducing the space norms it is quite possible to reach an average
cost of T.Shs. 2,000/m2.
The estimated cost of new buildings and conversions, which are
needed to cater for an increased enrrolment in existing secondary
schools, are based on similar works done around August 1980 by the
PIS. The costs do not include furniture, equipment and staff
quarters.
The total costs will be approximately T.Sh. 154,000,000. The total
costs for new schools to cater for 15,800 students will be
approximately T.Sh. 700,000.
The repair costs are excluded as the repair work has to be done in
all circumstances.
In a cost analysis the building costs for a government boarding
secondary school, a government day secondary school and a private
day secondary school have been compared.
The conclusions are that at the price of 10 government boarding
schools it is possible to build 14 government day schools and not
less than 290 low-cost schools (the private type), all of the same
size.
The running costs for a four-stream government boarding school
with commerce/home economics bases are approximately T.Sh.
6,000,000 per year. The costs for a similar day school are T.Sh.
4,050,000, which gives a difference of T.Sh. 1,950,000 per year.



47                          ANNER   14
Page 6
21.      Private secondary schools catered for 411 of the enrolment at the
secondary level in 1979.
Existing facilities in the surveyed private schools are uostly
well utilized.
The buildings are simple but solid and normally well maintained.
The private secondary schools suffer from shortage of textbooks.
The tuition fees, settled by the government, seem to be low.
A study on the real running costs of private secondary schools
should be made.
All remaining private secondary schools should be surveyed.
22.      Nine colleges of National Education have been surveyed.
No individual reports have been completed as the work on new
curricula and time tables is going on.
It seems possible to increase the enrolment at the colleges by
applying the same methods as are suggested for the secondary
schools.
The building standard is high and very generous space norms have
been used.
What is mentioned about maintenance, water supply etc. at the
gover,ment secondary schools is also applicable to most of the
colleges.
A study on the relations between teaching areas and boarding areas
at the two new colleges, Ntwara and Tukuyu should be made.
Remaining colleges should be surveyed.
23.      Most self-reliance activities at the schools are related to
agriculture and horticulture.
Some schools have been very successful in erecting various
buildings as self-reliance projects.
Plans for self-reliance activities covering several years should
be drawn up and the various projects should be evaluated yearly.
Unsuccessful projects should be terminated.



-48-                                 1
Page 7
All schools should be encouraged to include building construction
in their self-reliance activities.
24.      A study "Evaluation of Agricultural Programmes" in some secondary
schools and colleges of National Education - URT (Mainland) has
been undertaken by the University of Dar es Salaam.



ANNME 15
- 49 -
R&CT 1/
PROBLEMS WT  NEW COSTRUCTION DGENERAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS BUIT
UNDER EDUCATION V
New lecture-demonstration roos for cience (one sub-item in the
5th IDA Agreemnt) are examples of weak co-operation between architects
and educators. These are made too bLg - 103.2 instead of 61K2, which
is sufficient - and of wrong shape making It difficult to give proper
science demonstration lectures. These rooms should also be cLose to the
laboratories in order to avoid duplicated equIpment and to make lt
possible to move students Amd equipment quickly and essily when needed.
In 15 - 20 goverment secondary schools there are new
agricultural uDits (200.2) and wood and metal workshops (342m2),
which are either not used for their purposes or for which the utilization
rate is very low. These large spaces were erected without ensuring how
they realy should be used and to what extent. The technical workshops
are normally closed and not yet equipped. The agricultural workshops and
laboratories are either used as stores, maintenance shops, recreation
roams or as norsal classrooms or for assemblies.
Teacher. In Agriculture claim that no Instructions on the use of
these DC facilities have been Issued by the Ministry and that some of
the new equipment prvided Is unsuitable.
A nw curriculum for wood and metal work bas recently been
published. The subjects are optional dluring only three periods per
week. Ths indicates that even at big schools the new worksbops for wood
and metal work will be underutilized. A study should be made on the
proper use of these new workshops.
The special workshops at the tecbh"cal biased secondary schools
are too large. The teaching groups in practical subjects comprises
normally only 20 students. The present standard (1222/student) might
be needed at universities and tecnzical colleges, but In secondary
schools it Is sufficlent with mmaller workshops (5.2/student as an
average). See Amn   X.  The lbraries in the secondary schools are
normally too large. Many libraries are not fully utilized or sometimes
even closed due to lack of reading materials, furniture and qualified
lt Survey of Educational Facilities In Secondary Schools and Teachers
Training Colleges In Tazania, Ministry of National Education
Dar-es-Salam, 1981. First volume, pages 19 and 20.



I



- 51 -
ATTAcEMBT- I
cmzW?_ FROM TRE ZSORAOMER                                          __
I3ffS uflUUC (F TA1UA                  (page 1 of '2)
0131 OF IUE   - MDWI
Wdc_: 'VMIt: .                                 VnA    _uAam  Tam=
Tdepba: .234p.W13130112131415                         P.O. DM A243.
In ulby PlU a,: Dqa ss 
ag        ..     4 / ..Z 1            .          17th December, 198
r. Tuklnori Wataabe,
Actiz2g D±ieotr-GXeialp
opSrati  Elraltion,
T~he World Bank,
1818 H Stretl, L..
'.7shin&ton D.C
la: P!RocrIT -CaPLt,TI  1P! -_ TEAZIA
PIPIH 3DUC!LTION P32CI (IcR0-L,kA)
I am in receipt of yovw letter dated 15th Novexaberp 1984 and a copy
Of draft Project CaOpletion Report attached to it.
The follouicg ane n  cmnts/obsemations:-
1= *rect Ot0oi -8aa 1,00, on  ze 2
(a) Btcycles
Orl.y about 900 out of 2000 bicycles more bou&t becaiwe:
Niuber of V12a fenl short of 2000
-Sam YLZIs .ant for further education at-Moshi
Cooperative College and 3M YzuMbe
A Lutmber of VW!s posted in mouatasinous areas and
axeas with datng¢rous wild arlIs declied to get
the bicycles.
(b) HowAng- =terlalj and   VJMnt
PCU is not aware of any materlals and equipuent baving been
diverted frmu tbe Project or lost even durizig the U&anda '7ar.
Since the caapletion. zission ras umble to verify such
infoistiolo the Issue should better be treated as a heresay
and be ammitted altogetner.
(c) Ruz        = Drouctt  !,mds
!irstly, the last twio V£lP Progress Report (ITos 21 & 22)
d not mntion an outstanrd±i amount of funds to the time
T. Shs.9o5m. lRather, the reports quoted it as about 3.OrLi:on
-c.f, para 6,14 of your report.
ZecandlyT as you ri;hfly pointed out these fLmd= "did not-
involve credit funds" and henme there seews to be no -eason
for mentioniG then inx a Campletion Report about the credit.
W.i2



- 52 -
ATTACHMENT I
(page 2 of 2)
2o PBsical Ialementatior - The V1I!P (Part A). gaM e0lPra 4.10     aMe 11
I think the last sentence should be auzniLtted because it is =mtrLn.
3. VI PROJEC! 0-13:NATIG oucfCa!l. PA   15
PART A -_ flwe VRnaVement Technician Training Pr =
(a) In ;a  606  page 17 it is stated that total oieratioml administration
Csts   were about TSSbs.20.0 milion  hile in         ll  on page
40 the fi&ure is T,Shs.15,25 o3ly. The tru figuze is the former
one for the reason given in para 6.06, nasl3y, the allocation by IDA
of extra T*Shs.9.00 million for training of 240 Porm IT leavers to
become VWTs.
(b) In p          607  "Ujamaa Cooperative IAovemeit" should be replaced by
"Ujamaa Cooperative Department" because it is the latter and not the
fonner v.hich wvas split into two Departments in 1981 Make similar
corxections in para 6.09 on page 18.
(c) Para 6.10 Rge 18
Trairing of -VIs continued in five  and not orn]  four VT2Is until
completion in Jne, 1980. KEisarawe ]MC.  which vras z.4iQen and compens-
ated for 'oy the military, was replaced by Tengeru VlTC.
(d) Para 6.1Q 2,p.-e1
Tanzania has no  "chiefs". Other persons than VEs occupied VM
houses only if no VI-Hs 21ad been posted to the villages -.-here such
houses nere ready,
Conclusion:
Apart frocm the foregoing comments/observations, the report generally
gives a balanced vie;w of -dhat expired regarding the VL12,.
1..Pue
Copy:    ProJect Coordinator,
PIS.  F?or infonrwtion.



