CIRCULATMG COPY
FILE        CO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
copy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1710a-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
December 16, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at November 1, 1975)
Tanzania Sh   =   US$0.12
US$1.00       =    T Sh 8.05
(The Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at
a fixed rate of 9.66 T Sh to the SDR. The US
Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is there-
fore subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to T Sh 8.05, which
is close to the short-term average exchange rate.)
TANZANIA FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent of US$11.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fifth Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        The last full economic report on Tanzania (AE-26) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 22 and June 22, 1972. This was followed
by an Economic Updating Report (30-TA) distributed on December 11, 1972.
A basic economic mission is scheduled for 1976. An agricultural sector
report was issued on December 10, 1974. An industry and mining sector
report and a report on the fiscal aspects of Tanzania's recent decentral-
ization of Government were distributed in April 1975. The Consultative
Grouip for East Africa met in April 1975 to discuss the progress and pros-
pects of the Tanzanian economy and the need for additional resources to
support the Government's development program.   Country data are provided
in Annex I. Tanzania is one of the 25 least developed countries as defined
by the United Nations.
3.        The TANU Party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has
been the guiding force in Tanzania's political evolution since the 1950's.
Over the years following independence the political leadership has developed
a philosophy of egalitarian socialism which has been articulated in many
documents, most central of which is the Arusha Declaration of 1967. In
restructuring the political, economic and social life of the countrv the
leadership has introduced an impressive series of far-reaching institutional
reforms.  For the past decade Tanzania's social and economic policy has
been guided by three fundameptal objectives; (a) the achievement of a part4-
cipatory, decentralized socialist economic order; (b) the eradication of
absolute poverty and progress toward greater income equality; and (c) more
rapid long-term economic growth with full participat4on of all regions



- 2 -
and population groups in the development process.    Some of the Govern-
ment's most significant decisions have been in the area of incomes
policy; however, while considerable progress has been made toward reducing
inequality within the category of employed workers, large gaps still exist
between urban and rural standards of living.
4.        Tanzania is one of the thlree Partner States belonging to the
East African Community. The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation is
one of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation agree-
ments in existence among sovereign states. However, in practice the dcgree
of economic integration and cooperation among the Partner States is much
less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Political developments in
the Partner States have created tensions within the Community and impaired
the growth of interstate trade.   These difficulties have been compounded
by the balance of payments crisis which currently faces all three Partner
States.
5.        Between 1968 and 1973, Tanzania's GDP increased 4.6 percent per
year in real terms. Exports of goods and services in constant prices grew
2.8 percent per year during the same period. Domestic savings were main-
tained at about 18 percent of GDP. Investment increased from 19 percent
of GDP to 23 percent with public sector investment rising to 80 percent of
the total investment in 1973.   Annual price increases were moderate to low.
Current Government receipts more than doubled, but current expenditures
increased at similar rates so that budgetary savings stagnated. Although
the level of domestic savings and investment were substantial, the growth
of GDP was probably not commensurate with the investment effort. This
was largely due to the high proportion of investment that went into slow
gestation infrastructure and social services, and to the difficulties
encountered in expanding production in agriculture. The stagnation of
agricultural export volumes and very slow growth in food production were
the most worrisome problems. However, prudent domestic financial manage-
ment, and an increasing inflow of external aid on concessionary terms,
together with a rather sharp terms of trade improvement in 1973, made it
possible to maintain a high investment rate. Reserves at the end of 1973
stood at a healthy $145 million which was then the equivalent of four
months' imports. Indeed, the economy appeared in relatively good shape
before the events of the winter of 1973-74.
6.        Events occurred then which resulted in a drastic change in the
overall balance of payments of Tanzania. Import prices rose sharply and
in 1973 and 1974 rains failed in many parts of the country necessitating
substantial increases in imports of basic food items. As a result,
Tanzania's foreign exchange reserves declined by about $90 million in
1974 to a level representing about three weeks' imports and have remained
at about the same level since. Tanzania has been able to cover the 1975
foreign exchange gap by curtailing imports to the bare minimum and by
securing substantial program-type assistance including a $30 million Program
Loan (No. 1063 TA) from the Bank and drawings on the second IMF credit
tranche and the IMF special oil facility approved in August 1975.



- 3 -
7.        In order to close the gap in the longer term the Government
has begun a program of investment restructuring, improvements in the
incentive framework, administrative changes, and reduction in the rate
of growth of consumption. Under this program, the Government is reallo-
cating public investment from infrastructure development to the directly
productive sectors of agriculture, industry and mining. Actual public
investment for directly productive sectors is estimated at 41 percent
of the total in 1974-75 and it is planned to rise to 48 percent in 1975-76.
Although the Government has made substantial progress in this endeavor,
high level manpower constraints have inhibited both project preparation
and execution. The single largest economic weakness is the slow growth
of agricultural production. Several steps have been taken to increase
output. The Government has raised producer prices to levels approaching
world parity so as to provide greater incentive. The steeply progressive
export tax on coffee, which had an average rate of 30 percent, has been
reduced to an ad valorem rate of 12-1/2 percent to provide further in-
centives to farmers. The overall planning capability of the Ministry of
Agriculture is being improved and a project coordination unit to improve
implementation has been established in the Ministry. The negative impact
of villagization on output is being reduced through more careful planning.
The Government is reducing unnecessary non-development related recurrent
expenditure and is using taxation and wage/price controls to reduce the
rate of growth of private consumption. The Government's progress in
implementing policies and programs designed to close the balance of pay-
ments gap in accordance with understandings relating to the program loan
was the subject of a memorandum (see M75-687) from the Secretary to the
Executive Directors dated September 25, 1975.
8.        The program of economic restructuring initiated by the Tanzanian
Government to cope with the economic crisis will generate benefits which
will be spread out in time. Viewed negatively this means that the immediate
barometers of economic health, such as the balance of payments, will re-
main weak in the short run. The positive corollary is that Tanzania will
have a basically stronger economy at the end of the restructuring process.
The crisis acted as a catalyst in inducing significant policy shifts which
were diagnosed as necessary beforehand but which did not command urgency
until it struck. Not only did this hasten reallocation in the current
Development Budget and Annual Plan, but it is also likely to have a subs-
tantial impact on the forthcoming Third Five-Year Plan. For the long run
the most encouraging aspect of the Government's response was the demons-
tration that Tanzania retains the ability to push through necessary but
unpopular policy measures over a wide front. It is this characteristic
of a "hard state", together with the basically sound program of economic
restructuring, which holds promise for the future.
9.        The Tanzanian balance of payments will remain under severe
pressure until more of the favorable balance of payments effects of
recent policy changes can make an impact. Accordingly, Tanzania will
require additional balance of payments assistance in 1976 and 1977. A
gap of about $100 million is anticipated in 1976 after allowance for the



- 4 -
balance of the IMF second credit tranche (paragraph 6 above) has been
made. In this connection, an appraisal mission for a proposed second
Bank Program Loan recently returned from Tanzania. In addition, a continued
capital inflow in excess of the foreign exchange component of high priority
projects will also be required if Tanzania is to achieve its development
targets. Financing of some local expenditures will, therefore, be justified.
10.       In terms of debt outstanding and disbursed, the Bank Group is
Tanzania's second largest creditor after the People's Republic of China.
Other major lenders are Sweden, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The current low overall debt service ratio of
about 7 percent is expected to rise to about 11 percent by 1980 and remain
at about that level throughout the 1980's. Including a notional one-third
share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations, the IBRD is
presently holding 13 percent of Tanzania's outstanding external debt and
IDA 10 percent; the IBRD share is expected to rise to about 23 percent in
the next five years, and IDA share to rise to about 13 percent. Debt service
payments to the Bank are about 13 percent of total debt service payments;
the corresponding share for IDA is about 3 percent. These two figures are
projected to rise to about 25 percent and 3 percent, respectively, by 1980.
The debt service ratio of Bank loans to exports is expected to rise to about
2 percent by 1980. The Bank's exposure is high because several major donors
are now making their aid available either on grant basis or very conces-
sional terms and because as a result of prudent debt management suppliers'
credits have been kept to a minimum.   The average interest rate on loans
to Tanzania outstanding at December 31, 1974 amounted to only 2.4 percent
and the average term was 22 years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
11.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.    Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1963, 21 credits and nine Bank loans amounting
to $320.8 million had been approved for Tanzania throvgh November 30, 1975.
In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of nine loans, totaling $229.8
million, which have been extended for the development of common services
operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their associations
in the East African Community. The only IFC investments in Tanzania to
date, totaling $4.7 million, were made in the Kilombero Sugar Company in
1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial cLifficulties and in
1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to the Govern-
ment.  Annex II contains   summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations as of October 31,
1975 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
12.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy our
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and
directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72 10 out of 14 loans



- 5 -
and credits made directly to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. Of
the 14 Tanzania operations approved since then all but three, Urban Sites
and Services (Credit No. 495 TA), Highway Maintenance (Credit No. 507 TA)
and Education IV (Credit No. 371 TA), were for directly productive projects.
These projects are supporting both the agriculture and industrial sectors
including an Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit No. 508 TA) and
our first direct lending for an industrial project (Mwanza Textiles Loan
No. 1128 TA). In addition, a project to support fisheries devel,pment is
expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors in the
near future. A proposed forestry project, a project to support selected
industries and related estate development at Morogoro.and a proposed
second rural development project have recently been appraised in the fielu.
A third power project is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors
for their consideration in the near future and a proposed water supply
project is currently being appraised in the field. In view of Tanzania's
continuing balance of payments difficulties a mission recently visited
the country to appraise a second program loan.
13.       While it should be borne in mind that over one half of total
Bank Group lending to Tanzania has been approved in the last two fiscal
years and that initial start-up difficulties are perhaps inevitable, the
project implementation difficulties referred to in Annex II of this report
have been greater than anticipated. Some of these problems stem from the
scarcity of suitably trained and qualified manpower, some reflect the
understandable reluctance and apprehension of an essentially conservative
traditional sector to adopt the new "technology" and others are undoubtedly
a reflection of the strains created in a society which is attempting a
unique traverse from one set of economic, institutional and political rules
to another. The Government has become extremely conscious of these imple-
mentation issues and is taking steps to resolve these problems. An earlier
reluctance to recruit technical assistance for planning and implementation
has been replaced by a greater willingness to utilize such assistance
whenever it is demonstrably necessary. A technical assistance project
designed to strengthen project preparation and implementation was recently
approved by the Executive Directors. At the request of the Government about
10 technical staff have been supplied by ADS and a Bank staff member has
recently been seconded to the newly established Project Implementation Unit
in the Ministry of Agriculture. In a longer term attempt to alleviate the
human resource constraints our lending is expected to increasingly emphasize
formal and non-formal training. Furthermore, a conscious attempt is being
made to develop more simple and less complex projects.
14.       The difficulties facing the East African Community Corporations
referred to in paragraph 4 above have affected the Bank's lending program
for the Community. The East African Railways Corporation (EARC) has been
the most severely affected. As a result of long delays by the Partner
States in approving increases in tarrifs and restrictions on the inter-
state transfer of corporate funds, EARC was unable to order essential spare
parts and supplies with the result that its operational capacity has
deteriorated considerably. In July 1974 the Partner States agreed,
with the Bank assistance, on a package of financial measures to rehabilitate



- 6 -
the EARC including interstate transfer of funds and injection of additional
capital. However, this agreement was never fully implemented and as a
result disbursements under Loan No. 674 EA (East African Railways III)
were suspended in February 1975.
15.       A Bank mission which visited East Africa in July 1975 was able,
after meeting the Heads of State and other important officials 9' the
three countries, to bring about an understanding on both the short- and
long-term problems of the East African Community. On the general question
of the future of the EAC, a decision was made to review various aspects
of regional cooperation as now incorporated in the 1967 Treaty. It is
anticipated that this review would begin before the end of the year and
take 18-24 months to complete and would be undertaken by a commission
consisting of nominated riepresentatives from each member country. To
address the immediate financial and managerial problems, that will remain
pending the agreement on a long range reform of the Treaty, the Partner
States reached three major accords. To deal with the transfer problem,
an agreement was reached on the mechanism for the transfer of funds from
the regions to the Corporation headquarters. To ensure a workable plan
for railway decentralization, a draft Consultancy Services Agreement on
studying decentralization was adopted and will be financed under Loan
No. 674 EA (the suspension of which has been lifted). Finally, the
Partner States approved the appointment of financial consultants to
undertake a study of the assets, liabilities, debts and financial con-
dition of each of the three Corporations on a regional basis. This is
viewed as a necessary step in providing the basis for the decentralization
of the Corporations and is being financed by the UK.
16.       It is expected that this broad agreement between the Partner
States will provide a basis on which the Community can efficiently operate.
Payment for past due loans has been received and all the actions reviewed
above have been initiated. It would, however, be unrealistic to expect
that decentralization of the Community structures will now proceed smoothly
and without difficulties. There are fundamental differences in political
outlook and development strategies between the Partner States and mutual
suspicions of intent will undoubtedly continue. The newly agreed transfer
formula (paragraph 15 above) is inevitably open to misinterpretation and
goodwill will be required on all sides if it is to be successfully im-
plemented.  The dangers implicit in the possibility of operating diffi-
culties growing in other Corporations is also recognized. However, a
strong desire to retain control of the situation is also evident. The
Bank's role as an "honest broker" has been accepted and endorsed by the
Partner States and this role could be used effectively to help in the
smooth transition in the Community's structure.



- 7 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR IN TANZANIA
17.       At independence in 1961 Tanzania's education system involved
only a fraction of its total population and was predominantly directed
toward the needs of the modern sector. The adult literacy rate was low
and the school pyramid had both an inadequate base (under 30 percent
of primary school age children were enrolled in school) and tapered off
rapidly (75 percent left school after four years and less than one third
of the remainder reached secondary schooi). The education curriculum
at all levels was oriented toward further study in spite of the fact
that less than 8 percent of primary graduates entered public secondary
schools and only a small fraction of those entered university. In
addition, the major emphasis of study was on the urban and modern sectors
in spite of Tanzania's overwhelmingly rural character (over 90 percent
of the population lives in rural areas). This was perhaps the inevitable
result of the significantly higher participation rates in the urban
areas and the strong incentives for graduates to take up high paying
posts in those areas.
18.       In 1961 the Government concluded that its most pressing problem
was the very small pool of skilled manpower. The existing level of
trained Tanzanian managers and technicians was insufficient to man the
Government administration, let alone implement its ambitious development
plans. Therefore, while large numbers of expatriates filled the major
manpower gaps, the Government's initial education strategy was to make
Tanzania self-sufficient in skilled manpower by 1980.
The First Five-Year Plan
19.       In the First Five-Year Plan (1964-1969) emphasis was directed
toward an expansion of education at the secondary, higher and adult
education levels to address the manpower shortages. Special emphasis
was placed on meeting the manpower requirements of the various ministries.
A 1962 manpower survey provided a firm basis for secondary school expan-
sion and the Government expanded enrollments as rapidly as was consistent
with manpower planning projections. By 1970 the educational achievements
in this areawere substantial. As a result of the large capital invest-
ment program in new secondary schools and major extensions of existing
schools, total enrollment at public secondary schools increased from
11,282 in 1961 to 29,958 in 1969. As important as the overall absolute
increase, a reduction in dropout rates resulted in total enrollments
expanding about twice as rapidly as the entry enrollments.
20. In higher education the achievements were no less significant.
At independence there was no university in Tanzania and fewer than 100



-8-
graduates continued their education annually (in either the University
of East Africa or overseas). In 1961 University College, Dar es Salaam,
was established; in the same year the Law Faculty opened, followed by
Arts and Social Sciences in 1964, Science in 1965, Medicine in 1968,
Agriculture (in Morogoro) in 1969 and Engineering in 1972. In addition,
a number of specialized units for research and training were established
(the Department of Development Studies, the East African Statistical
Training Center, the Institutes of Education and Adult Education and
the Institute of Kiswahili Research). Total university enrollments
(in Tanzania and abroad) expanded from 940 in 1963 to 2,477 in 1969.
Most of this increase occurred as a result of internal expansion -- in
1963, 34 students were enrolled in Dar es Salaam; by 1969, 1,253 were
at the University College.
21.       In technical and vocational education some important advances
were made during the First Plan but they did not match the achievements
in secondary and higher education. The Dar es Salaam Technical College
was established in 1957 and a technical certificate course for those
with industrial experience or four years of secondary school was
inaugurated in 1965. Enrollments increased from 478 in 1962 to only about
700 in 1969. Problems with the recruitment of technical teachers and
with establishing a relevant and useful course of study resulted in
under-enrollment in courses and high dropout rates. The Government has
taken steps to address these difficulties.
22.       In assessing accomplishments under the First Plan, the most
impressive fact is that Tanzania has become substantially self-sufficient
in manpower. By 1974 citizens occupied 78 percent of the posts requiring
university or equivalent education and 96.4 percent of those requiring
secondary education. While gaps in particular areas remain (accounting,
bookkeeping, engineering and medical education to name some of the most
important), it is clear that the Government has established a viable
and productive system for training the manpower required to run the country.
Given the low base from which Tanzania began, this achievement is particularly
impressive.
The Second Five-Year Plan
23.       In planning the education strategy for the Second Five-Year Plan
the Government began to face a much broader problem in the education sector.
As it was becoming clear that the minimum technical manpower needs were
being addressed, Tanzania started to focus on the problem of establishing
an appropriate education system for the entire country.



- 9 -
24.       The political basis of this change was the Arusha Declaration,
where the socialist ideology of Tanzania was comprehensively set out.
In what was to be the first post-Arusha policy directive, "Education
for Self-Reliance," President Nyerere critically reviewed the existing
education system's performance and outlined the reforms required 'o
bring the system into line with Tanzania's overall development strategy.
He cited four major criticisms. Firstly, he stated that the existing
system was elitist. He noted that the system could only address the
needs of a very small proportion of the total population of school
age children. Secondly, he maintained that pupils were isolated from
the society that education was supposed to be preparing them to enter.
As Tanzania is predominantly rural, he felt that an education system
which stressed modern sector training was necessarily irrelevant to a
majority of the population. Thirdly, he criticized the system's stress
on book knowledge and its corresponding disrespect for practical experience.
Finally, President Nyerere reviewed the dichotomy that the established
system maintained between working and schools. He stressed the importance
of work and of developing a society which views hard work as an appropriate
role for all members of society -- including students.
25.       In response to these criticisms the Second Five-Year Plan
(1969-1974) involved a major restructuring of the education sector. Two
related themes dominated this Plan's educational strategy -- making the
education system more appropriate to Tanzania's needs and spreading its
benefits to a greater proportion of the population. To make the system
more relevant, emphasis was placed on reorienting the system towards
the rural sector. Instead of the traditional emphasis on exams, entry
to the next higher level and training for modern sector wage employment,
the Second Plan called for the preparation of children for life in and
national service to a poor and overwhelmingly rural country. School
syllabi would be changed to focus on the skills needed in rural society.
Practical subjects, notably in agriculture, were introduced. In addition,
success in school alone would no longer be the sole means of selecting
students for higher education -- recommendations from the Party and
employers would also be taken into account. Students at the University
would also be required to spend part of each year doing practical work
in response to the call for self-reliance.
26.       At the same time, the major emphasis in the educational effort
shifted from secondary and higher education to primary education. The
Plan set a target of 1989 for Universal Primary Education (UPE). It was
decided that the wide disparity between regions in primary enrollment
levels and the lack of opportunity for some children could no longer be
accepted.



- 10 -
In fact, in 1974 Tanzania accelerated the target date for UPE to 1977.
Total Government expenditures in education have been held at about 17 per-
cent of the Central Government's budget and 4 percent of GDP (both figures
are low in the African context primarily because of the Government's abi-
lity to restrict the growth in recurrent expenditures). It is expected
that the Government will make every effort to minimize the effect of the
1977 UPE targets on public finances by a reliance on such measures as self-
help and volunteer teachers.
27.       While acceleration of UPE should probably be viewed as a target
which the Tanzanians will push for but not reach, the increased effort
will necessitate a revision of the content and delivery system. Providing
a basic education to all primary age children in Tanzania continues to be
accepted as a fundamental goal of the Tanzanian Government that cannot be
compromised. President Nyerere has spoken extensively on the sacrifices
necessary to ensure that UPE is achieved. In a recent speech to Parliament
he called for a "more realistic physical standards" and the construction
of schools and payment of teachers from local rather than national re-
sources. He also reiterated the need for schools to include manual work
in their curriculum, for example, growing food and assisting in construction.
The effect of this emphasis on expanding enrollments has been impressive.
While during the First Plan the growth in primary school enrollment was
14 percent (with a decline in the percentage of total school age children
entering school), an expansion of 56 percent was achieved in the 1970-74
period. In 1972, a second major objective, eradicating illiteracy by 1975,
was added to the goal of UPE. While it is certain that this target will
not be achieved, there is clear evidence that increases in literacy have
been made.
28.       A more general aspect of the increased emphasis on primary
education should also be noted. In order to fully integrate primary
schools into the community, they are to become "community education
centers." This involves making the primary schools focal points for the
educational needs of the entire community rather than detached institutions
used only for the education of children. Education and training for all
members of the community would be incorporated into primary school studies.
A General Assessment
29.       Like most developing countries, Tanzania has given education
and training a central role in its development strategy. What sets
Tanzania apart from many other countries has been its ability to re-examine
its education system in response to changing economic circumstances and
the performance of the system as it grows.
30.       From a very limited base Tanzania has substantially achieved
its initial goal of self-sufficiency. More recently it has made major
changes in the orientation of its education system and attempted to spread



- 11 -
the benefits of education to broader segments of the community. While
questions on the size and timing of this effort are legitimate, the
Government feels the ultimate results will be significant in accelerating
Tanzania's future development.
31.       In the future it is anticipated that the trends that marked
the Second Five-Year Plan in education will be maintained. The emphasis
on literacy and primary education remains the key element of Government
policy. Once UPE is attained it is anticipated that greater concern will
be focused on designing appropriate curricula. In addition, the broader
role of the schools in the community could be strengthened. The rural
orientation is expected to be retained and could include organizing
appropriate studies and expanding the use of experience into the courses.
Rapidly changing circumstances may well result in new directions as
well. Given past experience it is expected that the Government of
Tanzania is fully capable of responding to these changes.
Bank Role
32.       The implementation of Tanzanian educational policies has been
assisted by IDA in four previous education projects. A first project,
financed in 1963 and successfully completed in 1967, helped the expansion
of decondary education; a second project, financed in 1969 and nearly
completed, is assisting teacher and technical education together with a
further expansion of secondary education; a third project, financed in
1971, is assisting agricultural education. The fourth project, signed
in 1973, is assisting training facilities for village development and
teacher, technical and medical education with additional expansion of
secondary education; sharp increases in building costs during 1972-74
have necessitated a reduction in the scope of the project and other
difficulties in project implementatinn indicate a probable delay in
execution of about one year beyond the original Closing Date.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Fifth Education
Project in Tanzania", No. 954-TA dated December 5, 1975, is being cir-
culated separately. A Credit and Project Summary is provided as Annex III
of this report.
Objectives
34.       The proposed project would be the fifth IDA credit for education
in Tanzania. It includes three elements in support of Tanzania's educa-
tional policy: (a) a program for the development of pergonnel necessary
to organize and administer the cooperative villages; (b) continuation of



- 12 -
the improvement of secondary education started immediately after inde-
pendence; and (c) provision of specialists' services for accountancy and
financial training, to survey the secondary school system, to review the
content and delivery system of primary education, and to implement this
project.
35.       With the villagization effort, substantial additional manpower
needs have developed in Tanzania's rural areas. The most urgent require-
ments are those related to establishing a viable basis for administering
individual villages. The rural training component of the project is the
first phase of a broad long-range program directed at meeting these needs.
Under this component training will be provided for the existing field staff
of cooperative inspectors and community development workers in village
management and they will be supplied with the essential facilities they
need to operate effectively in the villages. It is anticipated that these
trained Village Management Technicians (VMTs) will provide the skilled
manpower required to assist the villages in evolving into viable entities
producing the agricultural output needed to ensure the success of the
villagization effort.
36.       The secondary school component will provide for the expansion of
secondary schools and represents a continuation of IDA's long involvement
in the development of Tanzania's secondary school system (68 of Tanzania's
84 general secondary schools have received varying degrees of assistance
from the Bank Group's first, second and fourth education projects). Together
with parallel investments financed by bilateral agencies, this project would
enable most of Tanzania's secondary schools to operate a balanced curri-
culum including scientific and practical subjects. This would ensure that
graduates are adequately prepared for entry into the local labor market
or for further education in the scientific, technical and medical fields.
37.       The major portion of the technical assistance component would
involve studying the long-range needs of Tanzania in the areas of account-
ancy and management. As noted above, in paragraph 22, manpower shortage
in these fields have persisted throughout the post-independence period.
However, as substantial investments have been made in these disciplines,
what is viewed as essential is a comprehensive review of the availability
and training of staff, the relevance of the curriculum, the long-run
demand for accountants/managers and the status of existing and planned
educational facilities in these fields. This project would therefore
finance a study which should provide a rational and consistent basis for
long-run planning in the fields of accountancy and management. The re-
mainder of the technical assistance component will be devoted to surveys
of Tanzania's primary and secondary school system as well as meeting Project
Unit requirements. Ten years ago UNESCO carried out a comprehensive survey
and assessment of the physical facilities of Tanzania's general secondary
schools; in view of subsequent extensive development of schools, the Ministry
of National Education wishes to repeat the survey so as to up-date its base
for future planning of this education sub-sector. In addition, as a result



- 13 a
of the increased emphasis on and rapid expansion ot the primary system,
the Ministry also wishes to survey the primary school system. This
should give the Government a complete picture of the existing strengths
and weaknesses of the system and provide the basis for a more successful
and rapid implementation of UPE.
38.       The secondary school component of the proposed project was
identified and prepared by UNESCO missions which visited Tanzania in July
1974 and May 1975 and was the subject of discussion and agreement 'U2tween
the Government and the Bank Group in November/December 1974. The Rural
Training component was prepared by a Bank mission to Tanzania in April/
May 1975. The proposed project was appraised in June 1975. Negotiations
were held in Washington from November 24, 1975 to November 26, 1975
and the Tanzanian delegation was led by Mr. Mayagila of the Ministry
of National Education.
Project Items
39:       The rural training component would retrain 1,500 cooperative
workers during the project implementation period. The project would
finance operational costs (incremental costs resulting from participa-
tion in the program and necessary supplies), building materials for
about 1,000 houses, equipment, 2,000 bicycles,.500 motorcycles, and
other vehicles for a rural training program together with related equip-
ment and furniture for five rural training centers (RTCs). The
cooperative workers who are presently sited at Regional and District
headquarters would be retrained at the five RTCs. After retraining, they
would be posted to local areas as VMTs and each would work with the
development of about five surrounding villages. Building materials
financed under the proposed project would enable a self-helped house
to be built for each VMT and the provision of a pedal-cycle would
ensure his essential mobility. For purposes of monitoring the effective-
ness of the VMTs, a nucleus of specialized staff would operate from
District headquarters and regularly visit the VMTs in the villages; for
the associated travelling, the specialized staff would have the use of
motorcycles.
40.       The secondary school component would provide equipment for,
improvement to, or rebuilding of 15 secondary schools. These schools
would have a total of 9,020 places, of which 2,100 would be an increase
resulting from provision of new science laboratories and practical rooms
and conversion of some under-utilized rooms under this project.
41.       Recognizing the problems in establishing an efficient system of
accounting and management training and realizing the need to create
orderly planning for future development and define professional standards,
the Government set up a National Board of Accountants and Auditors



- 14 -
(NBAA).  In order to execute the relevant planning and to initiate the
possible development of a future project in this area, the NBAA is urgently
in need of ten man-years of technical assistance which would be financed
by this project. This assistance would include:
(i)  Two specialists in curriculum design, each for three
years. They would survey all curricula and sylla'li
of existing accountancy training with a view to their
harmonization and standardization within a framework
of appropriate professional standards for Tanzania.
(ii) One specialist in development of instructional materials
for three years.
(iii) One specialist in training management for one year who
would survey existing physical facilities and assess
teaching and administrative staffs, hence determining
the need for expansion of facilities to meet estimated
manpower needs.
Provision for office equipment would be included in the proposed project
for use of the specilaists.
42.       To carry out the survey of the secondary system, the proposed
project would also include support for four man-years of technical assistance
to cover the services of an architect and general educator, each for two
years. The Government is making a major effort to achieve universal pri-
mary education (UPE) by 1977 (paragraphs 26-27 above). More significant
than the purely quantitative targets are the intended changes in the
content, functions and organization of primary education which still
remain to be fully articulated. In order to develop them further, the
Government intends to carry out a review of the content of primary education
and the delivery system. It would be organized and carried out by Tanzanian
specialists with assistance from foreign consultants in selected areas.
The project would include two man-years of consultants services to assist
the Government in this effort. Finally, financing has also been included
in the project for retaining staff for the Project Unit, originally estab-
lished under the Second Education Project, if the existing contract with a
bilateral agency is not renewed for the final year of project implementation.
This involves three man-years of technical assistance to cover the services
of an architect, a quantity surveyor and a building inspector.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
43.       The total project cost is $15.0 million equivalent, including
taxes which total $0.5 million. The proposed credit of $11.0 million
would meet the $6.4 million of foreign exchange costs (43 percent of project
cost) and $4.6 million of local costs, thus covering about 73 percent of
total project costs. The Government of Tanzania would finance the remaining
$4.0 million of project costs. Details of project costs are contained in
Annex III.



- 15 -
Project Administration
44.       The proposed project components would operate under the
Ministry of National Education and the Prime Minister's Office. The
existing Project Unit in the Ministry of National Education would be
responsible for:
(i) all operations concerned with expansion of the 15
general secondary schools; and
(ii) the documentation associated with employment of the
four specialists to be employed by the National Board
of Accountants and Auditors under the Ministry of
Finance as well as for procurement of equipment for
the NBAA.
This Project Unit is an integral part of the Ptoject Planning Section in
the Ministry and is presently implementing the Bank's fourth education
project. As part of its ongoing responsibilities, the Project Planning
Section will also oversee both the primary and secondary school surveys.
45.       For implementation of the Village Management Technician
Training Program, the Rural Training Project Executive under the Prime
Minister's Office would be responsible for the organization and operation
of the five RTCs, the training of the VMTs, the dissemination of informa-
tion to Regional and District offices and the briefing of local officials.
The Project Executive, in association with Regional and District adminis-
trations, would maintain records of all expenditures incurred in conse-
quence of implementation of the VMT training program. The Project Executive
would be assisted by a team of specialists from the NORDIC- countries
who have wide experience of Tanzania rural development extending over the
last seven years and who have been largely responsible for detailed prog-
ramming of this project component. The NORDIC authorities have agreed to
provide the Project Executive with not less than five appropriately
experienced experts for the period of the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       The civil works contracts for the expansions of the 15 secondary
schools are each estimated to cost over $200,000 and are therefore suitable
for international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
1/ Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden are jointly providing
finance for these specialists; DANIDA is acting as executing agency for
the Tanzania-NORDIC rural development project.



- 16 -
Qualified domestic contractors would be allowed a preferential margin
of 7-1/2 percent over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
Except as noted below in paragraph 47, contracts for furniture, vehicles,
construction materials and equipment would be on the basis of international
competitive bidding if they can be efficiently grouped into contracts
greater than $120,000. Government procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory, would apply for the smaller contracts. All decisions on
contract grouping would be made by the Project Unit in consultation with
IDA. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a preference of 15 percent, or the existing rate of duties, whichever is
lower,   over the c.i.f. price of competing foreiRn suppliers.
47.       As the VMT houses proposed in this project are individually small
and involve self-help contributions, they will not be subject to cons-
truction contracts. Because of the wide geographic dispersion of the
VMTs, construction materials for their houses and their bicycles would
be purchased locally by the individual VMT where local stores maintain
adequate supplies of the required items. For areas where such supplies
are not available, the regional governments would be responsible for
purchasing these items and distributing the needed quantities to individual
villages.
48.       The Association would disburse 75 percent of total expenditures
on civil works and materials for VMT houses; 100 percent of foreign expend-
itures for furniture, equipment and vehicles when such items were imported,
85 percent of expenditures when such items were imported but locally pro-
cured and 100 percent of ex-factory cost in the case these items were
locally manufactured;50 percent of expenditures on project administration
and certain operational costs and; 100 percent of foreign expenditures
or 90 percent of local expenditures on consultants services. Up to
$120,000 equivalent would be disbursed retroactively for start-up expend-
itures incurred on the rural training component since October 1, 1975.
Risks
49.       The VMT training program is the first scheme of comprehensive
in-service training for the promotiorn of village development launched in
Tanzania. It is also the first time that a Bank Group education project
includes a scheme of this type. Therefore, there are considerable risks
associated with its innovat:ive and experimental nature: the training
courses for the VMTs are new; the effectiveness of the VMTs depends to a
large extent on the acceptELnce they are able to gain from various groups
of officials as well as from the villagers; the success of the physical
aspects of the program -- i.e., the provision of bicycles and the
self-help housing program, -- hinges upon initiative and effort at the
local level. Several measures have been taken to minimize these risks:



- 17 -
a strong technical assistance team experienced with problems of rural
development in Tanzania would back-up the project and is already in post;
courses and course materials have been developed and evaluated in detail;
provisions have been made for briefing the existing authorities at the
local level on the role of the VMTs; and special programs have been pre-
pared for giving to the local officials responsibility and control over
the physical aspects of the project. Most importantly, careful evaluation
and monitoring provisions have been worked out in order to gain eynerience
from the successes and possible failures of the first stage of the program
with a view of planning a second and broader stage at the opportune time.
Therefore, in spite of the risks associated with the VMT training program,
the benefits expected from the proposed project point to its suitability
as an integral part of the strategy for human resources and manpower
development of Tanzania.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed Credit are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft agree-
ment conforms to the normal pattern for credits for education projects.
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 16, 1975






Pmgwtbt 3 pages
COUNTRT DATA _- TANZANilA
AREA                                                 POPULATON                                    DENSITY
955,087    asS                                        -7WFTR-llc        (mid-1973)
157 /a    Per 1oSof arable land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Countries
l      -197o190                        2L
OW  PER CAPITA 113$ (ATIAe BASIS) A                                              120 Liba         170 A         310 /b        430 /b
DEMNOGAPBIC
Crude nirth rate (Per thouand)                                  56    a          7  c      8       4 f                       3/g
Crude death rats (Per thousad)                                  25/d            242  a           18,f           8             7
Infant mortal-ity rate (par thousand live births)              225         16o-iL65  o55                      *.39               .&
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                38 /c           43      ~        59 Li         65            65 L.
Gross reproduction rate   2.3.2 Li                                                              3.5           2.5Li         2.6 L
Population growth rate                                         2.2             3.0 /h           3.2/          2.2A          2.9 /h
Population growth rate-   orban                                .                 5 7W.            7      ,      6/
Age st-tructr (porcent)
o-15                                                         52 /pd4 I        1               58/          LO /b         1,5/
15-65                                                         56 7F   7       5   i     ~      548/i         5775         5327
65 and over1                                                                   3                              3    L
Age dependoecy ratio /5                                         0.8 c d 1       0.9  e           2.1 /         09
Ecunc,sic dependeccy rAti.                                      1.2             12       ~       1: 45    j     1.5         1 '6
Urban population es percent of total                             5 /c.d.p        7 /c.o          10 ti.a       Ul Li         29
Family planning:   Noa of acceptors cumulative (thous.          .               .                ..                         270
No. of users (5 of sarried womns)            ......15'
EMPLOYMENT
To=talabor force (thousands)                                 h,90o           5,600 /d L4i1210                              ,0
Percen tage esployed in agriculture                           89 y            91/Td.c          8                           ,
Percentage uneployed                                         ...                                              1
INCOE DISTRIBUTION
Prcent ofntioa      inooss reoived by highes,t 5%            ..               35 /9t
Percent of national income receivsd by highest 20%              ..60                                           30 L6i',
Perosnt of national inoo-   received by lowest 20%              ..               53/e
Percent of national incose received by lowest 40%                              lot2                                  t      11
IIISTIBUNTION OP LAND OWBNBSHIP
% oaned by top 10%. ofones-..                                                                                  28
% owned by smallest 10% of owners                              2....
HEALhADNURTO
Ppltio    r physician                                    20,000 L~1      27'90$..          ,76    i.     1,3 67,5045k
Population per nursing person                                8,7       o                              z1     ido   5      1,70j
Population pee bospitol bed                                    530 jggi        700 /dc          81          I,;,: /5       '290 L'.a
Per capita colorie supply as % of requiremants                  62 45Q          73              101           103            95 L
Per .spit. protein supply, total (grans Par doyF L6             52/x3                            71            65            594
DeOf shich lanOssal and puiss                                  227             23               29            19 L5y        20 &9
Deth rate 1-  yer/7                                           6..                               .
EJIUIATIOM
Adjust3ed /8 prinory school sa-ollent ratio                      25             37 /n67                        90 /b         89 /
Adjusted LE secondary school anrollnet ratio                                     3 7--            9 /cb        Ili           35
Tears of schooling provided, first and second level             13              13-              13            I2            13 /
Voca.tional enro1lment as % of sac, school enrollment            23              5/.o              2 /,b       15  o          3/
Adult literacy rate 5                                           .5                  bntn          5/.ec        92    .Sof   89
HOUSINO
Averags No. of parsons par roes (urban)                         1.8 /af         ...2.7                                      1.3 /-P..an
Percsnt of occupied units without pipod woter                   .               30 /ec           .              0            6j
Access to electricity (as 5 of total population)                . .             ....                           80/
Percent of Aural population connected to electricity                                                           LO....5  T  30.1
CONSOMPTIroN
EHWElesPar 1000 population                               2              16A               1   -       1274           1 It
Passenger cars Par 1000 Population                             ..3 7- ci                             ~b      or              33   L.
Elect ric power consmption (kah p.c.)                            15 /d31 /b                       70/         392/         L5.1
Newsprint consioption p.c. kg per year                         0.1 ZKJ          0.17            i.6 77                        9
Notss. Figu-     refer either to the latest periods or to             accuat of anirom""ntal teeperatore, body weights, and
the itaoty yers.    intast periods refer in principle to              distributio.n by age emS sea of national populationa.
the years 1956-60 ur 1966-70; the latest yearn in prin-           /6  Protein standards (requiremets) for all ..ountris as estab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                               lished by USDA Economic Resea.rch Sanice provide for a mininmu
Al  The Per Copia. GNP estimate is at nakht prico- for                allowane of 60 gramsa of total protein par day, aMd 20 gansa of
yeas other than 1960,ca1loultsd by the coe conversion             animal and palee Protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
tchoi que -as ito 1970 World Sank Aitlos.                         protein.  These stan,darda are somwhat lowe   than those of 75
145 Avecenme         fduhes       a   oa     frpoutv                  gras   of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
;rge.                                                             avro   -h.r   a   .   f  e- ci&erage for the world, propo..sd by FAD in the Third World Food
45  Jhpulation growth rates are for the decodes ending in             Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                                /7  Som~e studies hove saggested that crude death rates of children
A5  Ratio of population under 15 a.nd 65 and over to popula-          ages 1 through 4 say be used as a firet approximation Index of
lion of agen 15-64 for age dependency ratio a,nd to labor         mantio.
force .of ages 15-61 for econoe     dependency ratio.         /8  Perootage enralled of sorrspoading population of school age
45  PAO rference otandard. repesat physiological r-                   as defined for sach soatry.
qui--nato for noral activity and health, talduig
E. a xluding forests and pantures;    Ab   1972;   La  1957;    /d  Mainland Tannania;    4e   1967;   /f  UN estovete, 1965-70,
'dent HaloYnia;   /h  1960-72;    /i  15 gacetted townohipo, 1957-67;      a5  2,000 or eore inhabitants;     /kj Seedl City and
cunioipalities of 5,000 or sor    inhabitants;    Ll  African population;     /.  i969;  L/-   1973;   /.  1971;    La  33
ga..etted townships;   a4   16 gacetted townshipo;    45  Gacetted arena of 10,000 or acre inhabitants;       Is 1970-75 UN
aotlaate;    /t  Housaholda;    /u  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to totalisborfori;          45   Number on the
rgister, not all worhklng in the country;    /.   1975;   4x   1961-63;   45   Eatimate;   45 i964-66;    /e   l98
'   Secondary schooling includes teacher-training at the third levl;       /c   Dfnto       ukow;        a   1yer      and over;
sei6; /f1958, zancibar;      5al  1962-69,   /5h  including vehicles operated by police and other govenental seacaity
xraicmfa       /ai   NRgieterad only;     a.  1U       Ako  Wator pipmd Insaide;   /al   10 years and over;    /am  1962;
l   rl 19 a;q5 Insi rr ouadea5 Uitmae                            Nbustr of roon   includes rooa used only for pmroeasional or
bosiness purposes;    /ar   Including light co-aeroal vehiols.a
oMalaysia is selected as the cbjective ocuntry because its population in conparable In sine acid ito eno.ocic developamnt
is severl steps ahead.
N? Depteaber 16, 1975



ANNEX I
ECONOMIC  ~~~~~~ DATA ~~Page 2 of 3 Pages
(Amount in millions of U.S. -dolla-rs)
Actual                         Proiected             19 67-   19 73 -   19 75 -   1981 -   17        95      18
NATIONkL ACCO~UqTS                197-3     194            -97    37       190        1972    1974      1980      1985      197         5    198
At 1973        Prices and,Exchane Rates       Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GOY
Gross Domestic Product                       1819.2    1863.9      1952~4    203.      2450.1    4.9      2.5       4.6      5.4       100.0   1 04.1I  F 14-.0
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)                  -        -29.1       -77.6     -70.1     -95.0                                            -      -4.1     -4.0
Gr-oss Dome~stic Income                      1819.2    i18TW.s     117= 8    fl6r.1   =l3.2      4.5      0.9       4.7       5.4      10070,  TUoTh    [60T
Import (cine. NFS)                            519.8     517.4       419.1     424.3     527.4    6.8     -0.5       4.7       6.5       28.6    22.4     22.4
Exports    "(import capacity)                 417.0     309.5       276.9     314.1     384.3    2.6    -35.6       4.4       7.1       22.9    14.8     16.3
Resource Gap                                   10-2 .8  207.9       T7i.     TtIT1    -T3. 1                                           -357    --7.-    -T.
Consumption Expenditures                     1538.6    1635.4      1597.1    1637.6    1941.2    4.8      6.3       4.0       5.3       84.6    85.2     82.4
investment    "1 (incl. stocks)               406.6     407.3       419.8     43 7. 6   557.1    8.4      0.2       5.8       5.6       22.4    22.4     23.7
Domestic Sav-ings                             280.6     199.4       277.6     3217.5    414.0    2.7    -28.9       8.3       4.3       15.4    14.8     17.6
National Savings                               286.8    207,1       270.3     323.9     374.1     3.4   -27.8       6.7       3.9       15.8     14.4    15.9
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                      125.2   135.1     185.7       168.6     191.0    329.6                                           29.4     23.7     29.3
Intermediate goods (-msfuels)      154.4   169.4     189.2       209.1     225.8   378.2                                            36.8     31.9     33.7
Fuels and related materials         41.3    53.1     148.5       170.4     194,9    301.1                                            11.6    26.0     26.8
of which:   Petroleum            (41.3)  (53.1)   (148.5)     (170.4)   (194.9) (301.1)                                           (11.6)  (26.0)   (26.8)
Consumption goods                   82.9   102.2     215.1       108.0      76.0    114.8                                           22.2     16.5     10.2
Total Merch. Imports (cif)        Z06318   4 35Th-   530975      6371      6837Th  tf277                                            OUT.3F  1007     100-7
Exports
Primary products Gsxcl. fuels)     208.6   263.6     309.8       263.9     326.3    471.0                                            79.8    75.0     69.8
Foels and related materials         30.7     12.5     18.5        20.3      24.7     52.5                                             3.8     3.8      7.8
of which:   Petroleum            (30.7)   (12.5)   (18.5)      (20.3)    (24.7)   (52.5)                                           (3.8)    (5.8)   (7.8)
Manufactured goods                  49.1     54.4     55.4         67.5     79.5    151.2                                            16.5     19.2    22.4
Total Merch. Expo-rts (fob)        28-8 .4  flT3 0    017 3337Y            4r2       770D                                           iO7      0T-i
Tourism and Border, Trade                                                                                                          10.. ..O          i F
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1973     - 1 00
Export Price Index                  89.8   100.0     142.0       135.3     149.4    192.3
Import Price Index                  86.7   100.0     155.4       173.2     182.8    239.9
Terms of Trade Index               100.2   100.0      91.4        78.1      11.8     80.2
Exports Volume Index               109.7   100,0      81.2        85.0      92.2    115.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR               Aninual Data at 1973     Prices and Exchange Pates             Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
1967-72    1972-74    1975-80      1973     1975    1980
Agriculture                        640.6   647 .7    634.1       665.8     685.8    784.7          7.6        -0.5      73.3       39.3     377.9    35.6
Industry and Mining               206.6    208.7     210.8       217.1     228.0   281.1           5.0         0.6      5.3        12.7     12.3     12.7
ServiLce                          737.0    790Q.0   ..aA. 3     .2124.0   -211.8  1141. 6          6.1         6.4      5.4        48.R    4S..8    DJ..
Total                             1584.2  1646.4    1879.2      1758.9    1833.5  2207.3           4.           .         6       100.0    100.0    100.0
Actual                  Est.     Budget
PUBLIC FINANCE                        FY72    FY73      FY74        FY775     FY76                                                       As Percent of GDP.%/
(Central Government)                  ('i-n millons ot -current PT-sholin-gsT)                                                         FY72     FY73     FY7-4'
Current Receipts                   1859    2357      3002        3884      4007                                                      17.7    19.7     33.2
Corrent Expenditures              1717     2134      2885        364       3530                                                     16.4     17.8     20.8
ltdgetary Savings                  142      223       317         190       477                                                      1.3      1.9      2.5
Other Public Sector 1/             241      264        .            .        .                                                       2.3      2.2
Public Sector Investment          1694     1836      1996        2301         .                                                     16.2     15.3     15.4
CURRiENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                    Actual         Plrelinm.  Est.
As % Total Current Ex-pend.)            FY1972  FY1973     r13'974   FY1975
Education                                 17.-5    1-6.7     14.8      16.1
Other Social Services                     12.5    11.8       11.7      14.6
Agriculture283                                    24         314        32
Other Economic Services )283                       5.        314        32
Administration and Defense
Other                                     41.8    46.1       42.2      46.1
Total Current Expenditures               ioo,o-  -10-0.0    100.0     100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                  1965 -     197l3-    197 6-  1981-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               190o      1,975     1970     198
Average ICON                                         2.9        6.-3      4.7      4.3
Tmport Elasticity                                    1.6       -1.3       1.0      1.2
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                       0.1       -3.9       0.2     0.2
Marginal National Savings Nate                       0.2       -[.8       0.2      0.1
1.ABOR FORCE AND0                                Total Labor E'cree                                 Value Added Per,,Worker (in current Prices)
oUTm-T PER WORKER                  In Millions          % of Total                             In U.S.Dollars       Pecn     fAeag
1971                 19 71                                    19 71                  19 71
Agriculture                       5.3                  91                                        98                    43
Industry                         0.1                    2                                     1590                    694
Service                           0.4                   7                                     217094
Total                                                 1-0                                      f229-                  100
not applicable         - nil or negligible                  1/ Parastatal contribution to net current inoose.
not available         -  less than half the                oi Averaged from calendar year.
smallest unit shown                                                                                       FCI
October 10, 1975



Page 3 af 3 pages
BklENCR OF PAIHNfSD, EZDNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(anoints in vilitna of 3.S. dflalre at current Prices)
Avg. Annua
Actual                       Ftitnated                                  ProJected           10            8          -th Rats
1972        197 3       17           1975         1976        17         198         1979        1980        1985       1972-1980
SUMMARY 8ALkANCE OF PAYMENTS
BzP-rts (jcl. BFS)                                397.5       417.0       481.0         479.9       574.4       643.0       718.7       816.2      922.1      1832.7          11.1
I.port. (icel. NF3)                               476.1       519.8       804.2         726.2       775.8       883.5       989.4     1113.1      1265.4      2451.4          13.0
RnsaeurceOeRiaAW(X-M)                             -78.6      -102.8      -323.1        -T.3W$        -201.3    -240.5      -270.6      -297.0     -343.3     -618.7           28.8
Interest (net)                                    )34          10 4        -6.8         -18.7       -24.8       -30.1      -32.7       -35.6       -39.8      -66.1           34.2
Direct 7nvestment Income                          )            -5.5         0-5         -11.2        -2.0        -2.0        -2.0        -2.0       -2.0       -2.0
Workers' Re.ittscce                                  8.0        0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
C--t T,-.f-. (-t)-1.7                              0.7        15.7          72.4        72.4        1.J.ai     1.ALi        1fai.0    -JLl15-n   .is..
Balance en Cumrrelt Accouts                        -83.7      -97.2      -313.7         253.       -25         -.a"        -22.4      -.J.L       -.U"       -4   &
Private Direct Invectzent                            -          1 5         2.7           2.8         2.8         2.8         2.8         2.8        2.8        2.8
Official Capita. Oaanot.                           16.0        16.0        20.0          25.0        27.5        30.3        33.3        36.6       40.3       65.0           12.5
Public H&LT Loane                                                                           3/           4/          5/          5/                                           11
meaborreenmts                                   110.6        88.4        95.8-       193.7-       112.9-      111.3-     133.5-      160.87      191.4-     354.0          11.2
-Repayr.nta                                      -15.4       -18.3       -11.8        -22.0        -18.4       -21.1       727.4      -30.3       -39.6      -89.4           12.5
Net D         d     s    b     u    r    e   f     =3nta    757T                           /UI 7 7                                  T    7      151.8      264.6            6.0
Other MHLT Loans  1/                                ...        ...         ...           ...
N-cbRe entr
U.. ef rMF Recearcec                                -           -          46.3         34. 9                                                  Actul           Est.
Capital Transactiong n.e.i.                        28.2       -29.3        66.2          16.6                                    192       1973      1974      1975
Change in Net Rneervee                             -60.2      -20.5        91.0           -         L'ET AND DENT SERVICE                  46
PubL).i Debt Out. & DIb-rsd   335.6    416.4     565.7     789.7
GORANT AND 38AN 0OMM8IT4EBTS
Official Orante & Orant-like                                                                          Interest 06 Public Debt       6.9      8.2      8.9      12.2
Rapaysent. -n Public Debt    29.0     11.4      12.7      22.0
Public HLT L..ane                                                                                    Tt.al Public Debt Service     35.8     19.6     21.6      34.2
TBRD                                 ~     ~     ~     ~    ~~~~~-  -  65.0  30.0      Other Debt Service (cat)
7IDA                                              10.8       28.8        61.2         34.0         TOtal Debt Service (net)
Other  /                                          -           -           -            50.1
Other HMltilateral                                3.3         1.8         7.1           -        biurde on EIport Barnicog  (9.)
00--rneeta                                        49.3       94.9       112.5         161.0
Suppliers                                          -          -           -             -          Public Debt Service            9.0      4.7      4.5       7.1
Financial Inetitutions                            -           -           -             -          Total Debt s-rvice
bonds                                                                     -S-3Direct                            n-t. T...        10.2      6.0      4.4       9.5
Public Loans n  i. e . i .
otai. Publie HhLr l.a.T                             55W       17;3        23375 4                  Average Teree of Publdc Debt
Actual Debt Outetading on Dec 31.   974                   mt. as 9 Prior YTRr DO&D       2.7      2.4      2.1       2.1
58.AL DM                                   Atursed Wo3y              Pe    t                       8.onrt. as S Prior Yeb DD&D   11.1      3.4       3.1       3.9
Wbrld Bank                                                               7
IDA                                              63.3                    11.8                      r8RD Debt Out. & Diebursed
Other Hultilateral                               10.4                      1.9                       "  as 9 Public Debt 0&0        7.2      7.9       7.3      9.7
OG-erctcent                                     389.9                    72.5                           as     b Public Debt SereicsV  3.6  11.2      13.0      16.9
Suppliers                                         0.1                     -
Financial fnstiouti-ns                           12.3                      2.3                     CDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Rond1 7.9                                                                 1.5                       " as f Public Debt O&D 0    / 14.6      13.8      13.2      9.6
Public Debts n.e.i                               13.0                     2.4                          as 9 Public Debt Ser-ice-    1.1      2.0       2.8      1.9
T.tai Public M&LT Debt                          537.9                    100.0
Nctiu.al cnn-chird sabae of EAC debt             86.0
ef chtih: Wmld Back                            (38.0)
oth6r                               (48.2)
'11TA                                           623I9                                     _-
I/ P-r-ct.l cud Pulvi-t M&iT Inane
not applicable                                                e staff -etirate                  1/ Oucdlluda  -aing cc Arab Pund for Africa ($7.1 =.)
ont available                                                 -      nil er negligible          3/ Ic_ludeo bilateral and sultilct-cla p-ngra9 a-lcatcnce uf 591.0 =.
Mnt acailable sepcratiy                                      -- lees than half the              4/ 1clud-o pc-pned IBRD pregr-e loac of $30.0 =.
but included i. total                                             -sallect unit h-en           5/ N. pngrav. assictance.a.u ed.
6/ DIF Oil FPility and C-rdit Tranche.
7/ FOt including Taccania c churn in EAC dcbt.
9/ I88 ocd Tm   Dcbt Scrv-cics 7. nf Public Osbl S-rvie-
EACPIA
lctcbcr 10, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
A. STATEMENT OF' BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS AT OCTOBER 31, 1975
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.         Year       Borrower      Purpose                   Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans and six credits fully disbursed                    65.2     43.0
586 TA      1969       Tanzania      Roads                       7.0              1.9
149 TA      1969                     Education                           5.0      0.9
217 TA      1970                     Tobacco                             9.0      1.9
715 TA      1974       TANESCO       Power                      5.0               1.6
232 TA      1971       Tanzania      Education                           3.3      1.6
265 TA      1972           "         Roads                               6.5      3.3
287 TA      1972           "         Smallholder Tea                    10.8      5.2
371 TA      1973                     Education31                        10.3     10.0
382 TA      1973                     Livestock-                         18.5     16.6
454 TA      1974           "         Cotton                             17.5     17.2
460 TA      1974                     Tanzania Investment Bank            6.0      3.3
1014 TA     1974                     Cashewnut                 21.0              13.8
495 TA      1975                     Sites and Services                  8.5      7.4
507 TA      1975            "        Highway Maintenance                10.2      10.2
508 TA      1975                     Rural Development                  10.0      9.9
513 TA      1975            "        Sugar                               9.0       7.8
1041 TA     1975                     Sugar21                    9.0               9.0
580 TA      1975                     Dairy-                             10.0      10.0
1128 TA     1975                     Textile                   15.0               15.0
Total4/                                            122.2   177.6
of which has been repaid                           0.9     1.8
Amount sold                        0.1
of wlhich has been repaid       0.1
Total now outstanding-                             121.3   175.0
Total undisbursed                                   41.3   105.3     146.6
1/ Net of exchange adjustments
2/ Not yet effective
3/ Includes grant participation of $6.2 million of which $4.9 is undisbursed.
4/ An additional loan of $15 million (1172 TA) to Tanzania Investment Bank,
approved by the Executive Directors on October 28, was signed on November 12,
1975.   An  additional credi.t of $6 million for a Technical Assistance Project
was approved by the Executive Directors on November 25, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS AT OCTOBER 30, 1975
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.            Year   Borrower     Purpose                    Bank           Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                   75.0
638 EA         1969   EAHC         Harbours                   35.0              3.4
674 EA         1970   EARC         Railways                   42.4             14.4
675 EA         1970   EAPTC        Telecommunications         10.4               .1
843 EA         1972   EADB         Development Finance         8.0              4.1
865 EA         1972   EAHC         Harbors                    26.5             16.3
914 EA         1973   EAPTC        Telecommunications         32.5             11.9
Total                                          229.8            50.2
of which has been repaid                      30.9
Total now outstanding
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid        24.4
Total now held by Banks'                       198.9
Total undisbursed                               50.2
1/ Net of exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of October 31, 1975)
There are currently 18 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217-TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1, 1971; Closing Date - September 30, 1976
As a result of the Tanzanian Government's intention to
complete its villagization program by 1976, the process has been
accelerated and a total of about 7,200 families have been moved to
villages in the tobacco complexes, bringing the number of vrolect
farmers to 10,000. As a result of these vigorous efforts, it is
now likely that the appraisal target of 15,000 farmers will be reached
in 1976. Strict measures to enforce minimum tobacco acreages per
family are expected to contribute to increased tobacco production.
However, yields per hectare and quality of leaf have been below
anticipated levels. Improvements are required to strengthen the
extension and cooperative services. Provision of water supplies
and social infrastructure is progressing well.
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8
million Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After initial serious management problems the Tanzania
Tea Authority (TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory level of
senior staffing and this has had a clear impact on the working of
TTA and a definite improvement in the control over the field activi-
ties. The completion of 956 ha of new planting during 1974/75
/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the actions being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with
the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
brings the total project planting to 5,086 ha or 61% of the total
target area. A further 500 ha is planned for 1975/76 season. The
past lack of technical, administrative and financial control over
the four widely dispersed project areas is reflected in TTA's
current financial problems. A special supervision mission has
been scheduled to examine these problems and propose remedial
measures.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development
Project: $18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of
Effectiveness - September 28, 1973; Closing Date -
December 31, 1977
So farm implementation has been extremely slow. IDA
disbursements to date have been limited to technical services
and it is only during the past half year that the development of
cattle ranching and marketing has started to get underway. The
meat processing component of the project was recently scaled
down by almost a third of appraisal proposals because of increases
in cost. However, overall progress should improve now that
responsibility for project implementation has been transferred to
the newly established Livestock Development Authority and construc-
tion of the meat processing plants is underway.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The conditions in which the project is operating were
radically changed by the 1974 decision that farmers throughout the
district should move into villages and by relative price changes
in the producer prices for maize and cotton which occurred in 1974
and 1975. In addition, management problems have slowed project
implementation. For the 1975/76 cropping season the project is
focusing on twenty selected villages.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The lowest bids for the five processing facilities to be
constructed under the project were considerably in excess of the
appraisal estimate for the project component. Following detailed
discussions between the Government and contractor, the cost was
considerably reduced by deletion of non-essential items. Construction
of the processing facilities is proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project:
$10.0 million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
By July 1975, progress on the project appeared to be gen-
erally satisfactory. All staff to be posted under the Project
Management Executive (PME) had been appointed. Planning of project
villages had begun through the preparation of viability reports
(VSFR's) and land-use maps based on recent aerial photographs. A
first training seminar of one month had been given to village-level
bookkeepers in a new simplified bookkeeping system. Conditions were
therefore such    that the last supervision mission could agree to
inclusion of 23 villages for project financing during the current
fiscal year, requiring investments of TSh 4.9 million for agricultural
inputs and TSh 5.6 million for social infrastructure. Progress on
this proposed investment program would depend particularly on
project organization and management. However, the institutional
arrangements following elimination of the Kigoma Cooperative Union
(KCU) still remained unsatisfactory. It is anticipated that the
supervision mission scheduled ir. December will be able to resolve
this issue. A preparation team, eventually to number four full-
time expatriates, was re!cently installed in Mwanza to prepare
integrated rural development projects for Mwanza and Shinyanga
Regions, and the existing and future information base and supporting
activities appear promising.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kiloinbero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 24, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Estate field development is ahead of schedule with 2,740
acre of sugar cane planted during 1974/75 (about 500 ac over the
target) outgrowers planting of 400 ac is about 200 ac behind schedule.
Construction of the new sugar mill, financed by Dutch and Danish
loans, is on schedule and should be completed by July 1976.
Procurement of field machinery and equipment and supporting project
activities are progressing reasonably well.    Due to cost escalation
of the housing and community development component, detailed cost
reviews were undertaken and the project management expects that
the anticipated cost overruns of about TSh 21.5 million (US$ 3
million) will be offset by savings on other components and by partial
lowering of standards.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 28, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The Credit was declared effective on November 28, 1975.
The Government is proceeding with the recruitment of key personnel
and the first phase of procurement
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149-TA - Second Education Project: $5.0
million Credit of May 29, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
June 19, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
Most project schools are completed. Schools are adequately
furnished but not yet fully equipped. Procurement and installation
of the remaining furniture and equipment is in progress. The project
has experienced a minor overrun of $0.4 million.
Credit No. 232-TA - Thir,l Education Project: $3.3 million
Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - May 10,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Construction on all 13 project sites is in progress, seven
project institutions are almost completed, three will be completed
by October 1975 and the remaining three by December 1975. The Govern-
ment has agreed to start construction on boarding facilities with
an estimated completion date of September 1976. All furniture and
equipment contracts have been awarded, but the four agricultural
education specialists have not yet been recruited.    Fellowship
training is satisfactory, two have already returned and taken up
their duties. Disbursements have increased substantially but as a
result of the start up problem the Closing Date of the project has been
extended for 18 months, up to December 31, 1976. A cost overrun of
about $1.6 million is expected.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Design work of all project institutions, except for the
three secondary schools eliminated because of cost overruns, will
be completed by the end of 1975. Out of 18 project institutions
construction works had started on eight sites only. All construction
work is scheduled to be completed in the beginning of 1978. Furniture



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
and equipment lists should be completed for tender by the end of 1975.
The project unit is now working satisfactorily and a new project
coordinator has been appointed by the Government. Estimated project
cost, prepared last May by the project unit, came to about US$22
million, excluding the three secondary schools, a cost overrun of about
15%. While disbursements are expected to increase substantially it
is likely that the Closing Date will have to be extended until the
end of 1978.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Closing Date -
December 31, 1980
This Loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The Textile Corporation of Tanzania (TEXCO) has appointed
the project engineers and technical advisors and tenders for major
project components have been invited. For the study to be under-
taken as part of the project, several consultants have already been
contacted by TEXCO and proposals are expected shortly.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 715-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project: $30.0
million Loan of December 14, 1970 and $5.0 million
Supplementary Loan No. 712-2-TA of June 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness - March 31, 1971 and September 26, 1974;
Closing Date - June 30, 1976
Construction work for this project is nearly completed. The
project is on schedule and the first and second unit came on stream in



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
March 1975 and July 1975, respectively. A mission visited
Tanzania in April 1975 to appraise the second stage Kidatu power
project for which a loan is expected to be recommended to the
Executive Directors shortly.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After long delays in completing tender arrangements, the
contract for the Mtwara-Masasi road was made at nearly three times
the appraised cost. Most of the overrun is covered by a $4.4 million
loan from ADB and use of the $1.8 million balance from the Bank's
Second Highway Project (Loan No. 586-TA). Construction of this road
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Execution of road betterment works in two agricultural
areas commenced about a year ago and is progressing satisfactorily
in one area but is behind schedule in the other.
Preinvestment studies for Kilombero and Kilimanjaro areas
have been completed and final reports are expected in November.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
The project is one year behind schedule. Tender documents
for equipment procurement were opened in October 31, 1975 and are
currently being evaluated. The Government has been negotiating with
consultants for assistance in recruiting experts with no result so
far. Consultants submitted the draft final report of the Trucking
Industry Study, being supported under the Credit, in September 1975.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding very well. Contracts for
infrastructure construction at all seven sites have been awarded and
are expected to be completed on schedule. Other components of the



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
project, i.e. training, monitoringJevaluation and nutrition
studies are progressing satisfactorily.
There are currently six projects under execution by the
East African Community.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 2',, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
The suspension of this Loan was lifted on September 5, 1975.
The reasons for suspension and its lifting are discussed in paragraphs
26 and 27 of this report. It is now planned that part of the proceeds
of the Loan will be usecl for consultancy services to assist in the
reorganization of Railways Corporation (paragraph 15 ). Meanwhile
the Corporation is now i-inalizing a plan to meet its emergency
investment requirements.
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August: 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date December 31, 1975
The Harbours Corporation is in a healthy cash position
although there have been problems in transferring funds from regional
offices to headquarters. Construction was finished in August 1975.
A postponement of the C:Losing Date will be necessary to allow
sufficient time to comp:lete disbursements.
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 18,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
A delay of six months is expected in completing civil works
under this project. Cost overruns have been experienced in some
project items. The situation is under study by the Corporation, which
will shortly issue a plan for speeding implementation.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 843-EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - May 31, 1976
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized and the newly
formed regional office teams are now competent in dealing with all
aspects of development financing operations. The entire first loan
has now been committed by EADB.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 675-EA - Second Telecommunications Project: $10.4
million Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
November 9, 1970; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
The project is complete. The Closing Date of the Loan was
extended from June 30, 1975 to December 31, 1975 to enable final
payments to be made from the Loan account.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
October 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the
Posts and Telecommunicaticns Corporation due to the considerable
existing decentralization of operating authority. Deterioration of
the Corporate cash position and rate of return has been slight in
comparison to other Community Corporations and the situation was
improved by a rate increase allowed by the Community in February 1975.
All major works have been completed, except two microwave
links which, due to long lead time for delivery, will be delayed by
12 months.



Annex III
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:         United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:           US$11.0 million equivalent in various currencies
TERMS:            Standard IDA terms
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:      The proposed project would assist the Government to implement
its education development program by the following:
(1)  Support of the Rural Training Program - operational
costs, building materials for about 1,500 houses,
equipment, 2 ,000 bicycles, 500 motorcycles, and
other vehicles for a rural training program together
with related equipment and furniture for five rural
training centers involved;
(2)  Extension of the Secondary School System - equipment
for, improvements to and rebuilding of, where required,
15 secondary schools; and
(3)  Provision of Technical Assistance - the cost of
specialists' services for: the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors, the Project Unit of the
Ministry of National Education, a survey of secondary
school and a review of the content and delivery system
for primary education for the Ministry of National
Education.
PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION:    The existing Project Unit in the Ministry of National
Education will administer the secondary education component.
The Rural Training Project Executive in the Prime Minister's
Office will oversee the rural training component in association
with the Regional administrations in which the Village Management
Technicians (VMTs) will be working.
ESTIMATED COST:   The total project cost is $15.0 million equivalent including
$0.5 tax. The foreign exchange component amounts to $6.4 million,
or 43% of the total project cost. The IDA credit of $11.0 million
equivalent would cover all foreign exchange costs and $4.6 million
of local costs.



Annex III
Page 2 of 3
(US$ million)
Local   Foreign   Total
1. Rural Training Program
Civil works, furniture and equipment           2.7      2.0      4.7
Operating costs                                 .4       .4       .8
Project administration                          .1       .1       .2
Sub-total                                        3.2      2.5      5.7
2. Improvement of 15 secondary schools
Civil works, furniture and equipment           2.5      1.9      4.4
Sub-total                                        2.5      1.9      4.4
3. Technical Assistance
Ministry of National Education                 0.1      0.3      0.4
National Board of Accountants
and Auditors                                0.1      0.3      0.4_
Sub-total                                        0.2      0.5      0.8
4. Contingencies
Unforseen events                               0.6       .3       .9
Price increases                                2.1      1.2      3.3
Sub-total                                        2.7      1.5      4.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                  8.6      6.4     15.1
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
OF IDA CREDIT                                        (in US$ Million Equivalent)
Fiscal Year                       Annually         Cumulative
1977                                   .8             0.8
1978                                  2.9             3.7
1979                                  4.5             8.2
1980                                 2.4             10.6
1981                                  0.3            10.9
1982                                 0.1             11.0
PROCUREMENT
ARRANGEMENTS:     International competitive bidding for all major works, materials
and equipment estimated to cost in excess of $120,000. However, as the
VMT houses are individually small and part of self-help DroQram, thev
will not be subject to construction contracts. Also because of the



Annex III
Page 3 of 3
wide geographic dispersion of the VMTs, materials for their
houses and their bicycles would be purchased locally by
the individual VMT where local stores maintain adequate
supplies of the required items. For areas where such supplies
are not available, the Regional governments would be respon-
sible for purchasing these items and distributing the needed
quantities to individual villages. Retroactive financing
in an amount up to $120,000 equivalent would be allowed for
start up expenses in the Rural Training Component incurred
since October 1, 1975.
CONSULTANT
SERVICES:        Services will be required for the pre-investment studies
for accountancy and management training (10 man-years), for the
primary school survey and for the secondary school survey (6 man-
years). A bilateral agency is presently financing technical
assistance for the Project Unit in the Ministry of National
Education but since this agreement expires before the completion
of the proposed project, the incremental technical assistance
is included in proposed project costs (3 man-years). Excluding
this bilateral assistance, no contracts have been assigned.
APPRAISAL
REPORT:          Report No. 954-TA dated December 5, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Eastern. Africa



