Report No. 954-TA
Annr?kir,q of aFifth Education Project
in the United Republic of Tanzania
December 5, '1975
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
**  This document lias a restricted distribution and may be used by rei Lns
only in thie perfornmance of their' official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1, 1975)
US$1                              T Sh 8.05
T Sh 1                            US$0.12
(The Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at
a fixed rate of 9.66 T Sh to the SDR. The US
Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is
therefore subject to change. Conversions in
this report were made at US$1.00 to T Sh 8.05,
which is close to the short-term average
exchange rate.)
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)                        3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m2)  =            10.76 Square Feet
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................. .i-iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ........................................      1
II.   BACKGROUND  .....................................          2
III.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR ................................. ..4
Issues in Educational Development ................ ..4
Financing Educational Development ...............    5
*                    Conclusion    ................................7
IV.   THE PROJECT    ....................................7
Objectives .....................................     7
Project Items  ..................................     8
- The Village Management Technician
Training Program ............................     8
- Extensions to General Secondary Schools ......... 10
- Studies and Technical Assistance ...........       11
V.   PROJECT COST, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREIENT AND DISBURSEMENT   .......................... 13
Cost  Estimates  .................................. .  13
The Financial Plan .............................     15
Project Implementation .........................     16
Procurement ....................................     18
Disbursement .................................... .18
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................. 19
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................    21
This report is based on the findings of a mission in June 1975 to the United
Republic of Tanzania composed of Messrs. R.F. McMahon (technical educator),
M. Wodajo (general educator), K. Andersen (architect), A. Mercer (agricul-
turist) and Mrs. R.P. Brandenburg (economist) of the Bank and Mr. B. Woods
(agricultural training specialist), consultant to the Bank. The project was
further reviewed in the field by Messrs. Pennisi and Mercer in October-November,
1975.



Table of Contents (Continued)
APPENDIXES
I    Education and Training System
II    Village Management Technician Training
ANNEXES
1.   Government Decentralization - TANU Party and Related Field Staff
2.   Comparative Education Indicators
3.   Public Primary and General Secondary Schools - Enroilments and
Projections (1970-1985)
4.   Public Primary and General Secondary Schools - Teachers Employed
and Projections (1974-1985)
5.   Expenditures on Education and Training in Relation to Total
Government Expenditures
6.   Past and Projected Government Recurrent Expenditures on
Education and Training
7.   Past and Present Government Capital Expenditures on Education
and Training
8.   Relationship of Project Executive to Prime Minister's Office
9.   Village Management Technician Training Program - Project Executive
10.   Summary of Enrollment and Estimated Project Cost
11.   Implementation and Expenditure Schedule
12.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13.   Composition of Project Unit's Staff and Operational Cost
CHARTS
1.   Structure of Education, 1974                    World Bank - 7012 (R)
2.   Education Pyramid, 1974 (Public Schools)        World Bank - 15055
3.   Ministry of National Education                  World Bank - 15056
(Orgnizational Chart)
MAP  - United Republic of Tanzania                        IBRD 11763 Ri
Key to Map



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
BASIC DATA (Est.) - (1974)
(excluding Zanzibar)
Population (E-st.) 1974                                      14.4 million
Population growth rate                                       2.7% p.a.
Wage and salary employment                                   419,000
Education
Public Schools                                          1974
Primary aducation (Standards 1-7)
- enrollment                                            1,290,000
- ratio of enrolled to age group (7-13 yrs)             43.8%
Lower secondary education (Forms 1-4)
- enrollment                                            32,250
- ratio of enrolled to age group (14-17 yrs)            2.8%
Upper secondary education (Forms 5-6)
- enrollment                                            3,680
- ratio of enrolled to age group (18-19 yrs)            0.8%
University of Dar es Salaam
- enrollment                                            2.090
Private Schools
Ratio of private primary enrollment to public
primary enrollment                                     1.1%
Ratio of private secondary enrollment to public
secondary enrollment                                   40%
Expenditures
Total recurrent education expenditure as a percentage   17%
of government recurrent expenditure
Total education expenditures as a percentage of GDP      5.1%



GLOSSARY
Primary Education    -   Standards 1-7 with a terminal examination
of Primary Leaving Examination
Secondary Education  -   Forms 1-4 with a terminal examination for
National School Certificate
Forms 5-6 with a terminal examination for
National Higher School Certificate
Ujamaa               -   Swahili for family
CIDA                 -   Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA               -   Danish International Development Agency
NBAA                 -   National Board of Accountants and
Auditors
NORAD                -   Norwegian Agency for International
Development
NORDIC               -   The NORDIC countries comprise Denmark,
Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden
RTC                  -   Rural Training Center.  Administration of
RTCs has recently been transferred from
the Ministry of Agriculture to the
Ministry of National Education.
TANJ                 -   Tanganyika National Union Party, the
country's only political party.
UPE                  -   Universal Primary Education
VMT                  -   Village Management Technician



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a fifth education project in Tanzania for
which a credit of US$11.0 million is proposed.
ii.       The country's philosophy of social and economic development is one
of socialism and self-reliance and, within this framework, one of its major
goals is to improve the living standards of the rural population. Some 90%
of Tanzania's population live in rural areas, and at independence in 1961
the people were in small communities making it difficult to provide social
services. Rural development, leading to gradual improvements in the lives of
the rural population, was given priority over urban and industrial development.
iii.      The development strategy includes incentives to encourage dispersed
rural populations to organize themselves into ujamaa (Swahili for family)
villages or communities engaged in farming on an individual basis. The
incentives take the form of basic infrastructure such as education, potable
water supply, health services, and agricultural extension services. About
5,000 villages are now in existence and relocation of all the rural population
is expected to be completed by end-1976 when it is estimated that some 9,000
villages will be formed.
iv.       The Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74) supports the rural development
program and the national objective of universal primary education. The Plan
also regulates secondary and higher education in accordance with manpower needs
with a view to achieving an adequate supply of skills for the modern sector of
the economy by 1980. The implementation of these policies has already been
assisted by IDA. A first project, financed in 1963 and successfully completed
in 1967, helped the expansion of secondary education; a second project, financed
in 1969 and nearly completed, is assisting teacher and technical education
together with a further expansion of secondary education; a third project,
financed in 1971, is assisting agricultural education. The fourth project,
signed in 1973, is assisting training facilities for village development and
teacher, technical and medical education with additional expansion of secondary
education; sharp increases in building costs during 1972-74 have necessitated
a reduction in the scope of the project and other difficulties in project
implementation indicate a probable delay in execution of about one year beyond
the Closing Date.
v.        Implementation of Tanzanian educational policies has generally
been good with the result that the educational system is in reasonable
balance with the needs of the economy and the social aspirations of the
people. Skilled manpower needs are gradually being met and in those areas



where /significant shortages still occur, e.g., accountancy, engineering and
medicilke, recently established training facilities, should largely ensure
an adeiuate supply of skilled manpower.
vi.   |   The Plan, however, did not anticipate the manpower demand consequent
upon tf;he Government's villagization program which has inevitably resulted in
probllams of a logistical, administrati-ve and human nature. Consequently, the
villages now lack skilled people essential for their orderly evolution into
viab$e entities capable of the agr4cultural production necessary to ensure
thei.r social and economic development. There is, therefore, an urgent need
to provide basic and relevant skill retraining to the 1,500 presently em-
ployed cooperative workers to enable them to give positive and direct
assiLstance to the villages.
vii,.     The nroject would consist of (i) a rural training program designed
to retrain cooperative workers in appropriate skills, (ii) improvement in
secondary educatiorn and (iii) pre-investment studies for accountancy and
management education. The project would include:
(a) operational costs, building materials for about 1,500 houses,
equipment, 2,000 pedal-cycles, 500 motorcycles, and other
vehicles for a rural training program together with related
equipment and furniture for five rural training centers;
(b) equipment for, and improvements to 15 secondary schools;
(c) the cost of specialists' services for: the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors, the Project Unit of the Ministry
of National Education, and survey of secondary schools
under the Ministry of National Education; and
(d) the cost of a review of the content and delivery system of
primary education.
The rural training program would retrain 1,500 cooperative workers and the
15 general secondary schools would have a total of 9,020 student places of
which 2,100 would be an increase resulting from provision of new science
laboratories and practical rooms and conversion of some under-utilized rooms
into such facilities.
viii.     The cooperative workers who are presently sited at Regional and
District headquarters where their impact on village development is limited
would, after retraining, become Village Management Technicians (VMTIYI) and
each would work with the development of about five villages. Building
'materials financed under the proposed project would enable a self-help house
to be built for each VMT and the provision of a pedal-cycle would ensure his
essential mobility. For purposes of monitoring the effectiveness of the
VMTs, a nucleus of specialized staff would operate from District headquarters
and regularly visit the VMTs in the villages; for the associated travelling
the specialized staff would have the use of motorcycles.



ix.       The VMT training program would be the responsibility of a Project
Executive in the Prime Minister's Office for wnich substantial assistance
is being provided by a NORDIC 1 / team who has been active in rural development
in Tarnzania for the last seven years.  The Project Executive, apart from the
initial instruction of 1,500 VMTs, would have wider duties including liaison
with village, Ward, District and Regional administrations including a contin-
uous assessment of the effectiveness of the VMTs and would provide inputs of
assistance to improve performance in the light of experience gained. The
Project Executive would also identify further training needs for villages
and prepare a follow-up program which might form the basis of future Bank
Group projects.
x.        Improvements to the fifteen secondary schools would largely follow
the pattern set in previous IDA projects and, together with parallel improve-
ments being financed by bilateral agencies, would enable most Tanzanian
secondary schools to operate a balanced curriculum including scientific and
practical subjects which would ensure that school graduates are adequately
prepa-ad for entry into the labor market or for further education in the
scientific, technical and medical fields.
xi.       A Project Unit in the Ministry of National Education, currently
receiving technical assistance from the Danish International Development
Agency (DANIDA) and the Norwegian Agency for International Development (NORAD)
and now in process of implementing the fourth education project, would execute
the work included in the proposed fifth project except that to be performed
by the Project Executive indicated above; in case the Government of Tanzania's
agreemenL. with DANIDA and NORAD expire before completion of the proposed
fifth project, the cost of specialists' assistance to support the Project Unit
has been allowed for as part of the total project cost.
xii.      The civil works contracts for the secondary schools would be let on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. Qualified domestic contractors would be allowed a preferential
margin of 7-1/2% over bid prices of competing foreign contractors. Except as
outlined below, contracts for furniture, vehicles, construction materials and
equipment would be placed on the basis of international competitive bidding
if they can be grouped into contracts larger than US$120,000. If the contracts
are for less than US$120,000, they would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures which are
acceptable to the Association. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equip-
ment would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing rate of import duties,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign contractors.
Construction of the 1,500 VMT houses, on a self-help basis supervised by the
Project Executive, as well as purchase of the VMT bicycles would not be subject
to contracts; because of the wide geographical dispersions of the VMTs, mate-
rials for their houses as well as their bicycles would be purchased locally by
individual VMT where local stores maintain adequate supplies of the required
items. For areas where such supplies are not available, the Regional govern-
ments would purchase the items and distribute the needed quantities to indi-
vidual villages.
1/   NORDIC - see glossary.



-iv-
xiii.     The total project cost is estimated at US$15.0 million equivalent,
corresponding to US$14.5 million net of taxes, with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$6.4 million equivalent or 43% of the total project cost. The
proposed IDA Credit of US$11.0 million equivalent would correspond to 76% of
the total project cost net of taxes and duties. The project would be completed
in approximately six years.
xiv.      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$11.0 million equivalent.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Tanzania has received four IDA credits for educa-
tion. The first (Credit 45-TA) in 1963, provided US$4.6 million for the ex-
pansion of general secondary education and was successfully completed in 1967.
The second (Credit 149-TA) in 1969, provided US$5.0 million for development
of general secondary schools and the expansion of primary teacher training
and the Dar-es-Salaam Technical College; the project is nearly completed. The
third (Credit 232-TA), in 1971, provided US$3.3 million for agricultural train-
ing; due to a slow start arising from a lack of technical manpower, the Closing
Date had to be postponed by 18 months to December 31, 1976; contracts have been
awarded for all project institutions and construction work is in progress.
The fourth project (Credit 371-TA), in 1973, provided US$10.3 million to assist
Tanzania's education strategy for the Second Development Plan by: (i) develop-
ing education and training facilities for children and adults in ujamaa
(Swahili for "family") villages; (ii) expanding and improving pre-service and,
in-service training of primary school teachers; (iii) providing additional
facilities for training doctors; and (iv) supplying new general secondary
schools and vocational training centers. Project implementation is over one
year behind schedule due to belated recruitment of technical assistance
personnel; general increases in world prices since appraisal, together with
various internal factors, have caused, in the three years 1972-74, increased
building costs of about 130%. Consequently, to partly offset the adverse
impact of this delay and higher costs, the scope of the project has been
modified by eliminating three new general secondary schools from the project's
description. However, the modified project is still expected to cost 50% more
than the original estimates, and the Government has confirmed that they will
meet the financial shortfall, All key technical assistance staff are now in
post and implementation is improving.
1,02      Unesco missions visited Tanzania in June 1974 and IIay 1975.  The
first identified a set of priority projects and the subsequent mission carried
out preparatory work for a proposed fifth education project whose broad com-
position was the subject of discussion and agreement between the Government
and the Bank Group in November/December 1974. The project was appraised in
June 1975 by a mission composed of Messrs. R.F. McMahon (technical educator),
M. Wodajo (general educator), K. Andersen (architect), A. Mercer (agricul-
turist) and Mrs. R.P. Brandenburg (economist) of the Bank and Mr. B. Woods
(agricultural training specialist), consultant. The project was further
reviewed in the field by Messrs. Pennisi and Mercer in October-November, 1975.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The population of mainland Tanzania in 1974/75 is estimated at
14.4 million, increasing at about 2.7% per annum. Although Tanzania is a
sparsely populated country, there are a number of well-populated districts
along the coast, south and west of Lake Victoria, near Mount Kilimanjaro
and on the borders of neighboring countries. Total wage employment, exclud-
ing smallholder agriculture and private households, increased at the rate
of 3.2% per year between 1969 and 1973 and 3.4% in the last year of the
Second Five-Year Plan period (1969-1974). In absolute terms wage employment
grew from 367,900 in 1969 to 419,500 in 1973. Agriculture employs 90% of
the economically active population, largely in subsistence farming. The
highest employment growth rate in the early 1970's occurred in manufacturing
followed by the transport sector but with v;agligible growth in agriculnure.
2.02      Preparation of the Third Five-Year Plan (1975-80) although largely
completed by June 1975, had, due to recent adverse economic conditions, to be
given further Government consideration. Since independence, the Government's
development program has been guided by a set of clearly formulated principles
conceived within a socialist framework. The five main principles stress
social equality, ujamaa, self-reliance, economic and social transformation
and African economic integrqition. Tanzania is strongly committed to a socialist
mode of rural development based on egalitarian and cooperative effort. The
foundation of this rural transformation is the promotion of planned village
communities incorporating a productive farming system and the provision of
social infrastructure. By early 1975 Government estimated that about 70% of
the rural population, almost 9 million Deople, were living in ujamaa-type
villages throughout Tanzania. Completion of the national villagization pro-
gram is expected by the end of 1976. The Government attaches the greatest
importance to carefully planned and supervised integrated village development
programs and therefore it is expected that the emphasis in the Third Five-Year
Plan will be on the development of cooperative movement ujamaa practices.
Cooperative movement legislation has tended to emphasize regulatory functions
at the expense of promotional effort. As a result, personnel within the
official structure have not been oriented towards development of production
and commercialization, and lack the appropriate basic managerial skills vital
to promote village development.
2.03      With the development of the education system since independence,
localization of employment in Tanzania has been rapid. In 1974, citizens
occupied 78% of the posts requiring university or equivalent education and
96% of those requiring secondary education. These figures indicate that
formal education at university and secondary levels is largely meeting the
country's needs for high and middle level manpower, and for this reason a
major expansion of the formal education system is unlikely to be included



-3-
in the Third Five-Year Plan. The Plan will probably include provision for
improvement of existing institutions so that an adequate number of people
will be trained in the high demand areas of practical and scientific subjects
including associated commercial skills such as accountancy and bookkeeping.
2.04      Agriculture, the main source of income and foreign exchange earn-
ings, contributes about 40% of Tanzania's GDP. In recent years, the growth
of agricultural production has been sluggish due in part to population move-
ments associated with the accelerated villagization program and, of late,
due to a severe drought. The threat of famine was averted by large importa-
tions of food grain in 1974 and 1975. Since world prices were then high,
the grain imports cost Tanzania the total foreign exchange earned from the
principal export crops of sisal, casheO nuts, and tobacco; thus, promotion
of agriculture to feed the nation and increase export earnings remains
Tanzania's number one development task.
2.05      The village development program (para. 2.02) is designed to facili-
tate the provision of social and other services such as education, coopera-
tives, water supply and health facilities. This should generally improve
living conditions and the quality of life of the villagers and result in an
increase in agricultural produactivity. Funidamentally, the program involves
the physical resettlement of families from their present homesteads, which
are usually widely suattered, and relocating them in the villages.
2.06      During 1972, the Government delegated much of its executive authority
and administrative duties to the 21 Regions which now comprise Tanzania. Each
Regional Commissioner, within the general framework of Government policy, was
accorded wide responsibilities to administer and develop his Region. The 21
Regions are divided into 80 Districts each headed by an Area Commissioner;
a further division is into 1,500 rural Wards each with a Ward Secretary in
charge (Annex 1). When villagization is completed, each Ward will have over-
all responsibility for about six villages.
2.07      In executing this decentralization of Governmen   policy, various
manpower problems have emerged, chief of which is the acu=e shortage of
experienced personnel capable of operating effectively the chain of operations
at Regional and District levels and especially in the Wards and villages.
With the present output from the university and secondary schools (para.
2.03), it is expected that the middle and high level manpower required for
Regional and District offices will be met in the foreseeable future and
the operational efficiency will gradually improve as the new incumbents gain
experience. But the specialized manpower needs at Ward and village levels,
will, in view of the magnitude of the problem involving some 9,000 villages,
require urgent action to provide training in the special skills necessary
for village development. Each village would require at least six well-
qualified technicians, and training courses for these personnel are a pre-
requisite for their efficient employment in the villages. A training program
of this magnitude cannot be contemplated as an immediate measure, but would
have to be phased over a number of years.



-4-
2.08      To meet the most urgent needs and as a first phase in the train-
ing program, it is planned that the existing 1,500 cooperative field staff
attend retraining courses and be assigned to Wards as Village Management
Technicians (VMTs); they would each be provided with a house, and, to enable
them to visit the villages under the Ward's jurisdiction, pedal-cycles would
also be supplied. At present, the field staff is sited at Regional and
District headquarters where their impact on village development, because of
lack of transport and suitable training, is very limited.
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Is-s-ues in Educational Development
3.01      Tanzania's education and training sector is described in Appendix I
and basic data are given in Annexes 2, 3 and 4 and Charts 1, 2 and 3.
3.02      Expansion of the educational system since independence in 1961 has
been rapid. By 1974, enrollments in primary schools (Standards 1-7) had
increased from 500,000 to 1.29 million (44% of the age group), and in secon-
dary schools (Forms 1-6) from 12,000 to 36,000 (2.5% of the age group).
Virtually all present higher education has been developed since 1961 to an
enrollment of about 2,100 at the Dar-es-Salaam University in 1974.
3.03      These figures reflect the Government's educational strategy of
both the first (1964-69) and the second (1969-74) Five-Year Plans in which
emphasis was given to primary education with a target date of 1989 1/ for
universal primary education and with subsequent education and training
strictly geared to estimated manpower needs. Over the years, this policy
has been implemented with efficiency, resulting in an educational system
which is in reasonable balance with the social aspirations and economic needs
of the country. Nevertheless, shortages of some types of manpower are still
evident particularly of medical and engineering personnel as well as account-
ants and bookkeepers; but current developments in hand at the University
should, in time, alleviate the shortage of medical and engineering manpower
and the recently commissioned National Board of Accountants and Auditors
(NBAA) is charged with the reorganization of the various relevant training
establishments for accountants and allied personnel and improving their
efficiency so that an adequate supply of graduates will be forthcoming.
3.04      The strategy contained in the first Five-Year Plan was, in 1967,
amplified by President Nyerere in his Arusha Declaration which made explicit
the socialist idecXogy of the country and the need for self-reliance through
rural development. The Arusha Declaration was strongly reflected in the
second Five-Year Plan which had major implications for nonformal and adult
education including the widening of the functions of primary schools to be
developed into community education centers as a focal point for the educa-
tional needs of the whole community; this development is being assisted
under the fourth education project (Credit 371-TA).
1/   This target date has since been changed to 1977 (para. 3.06).



-5-
3.05      The importance accorded to adult education was further underlined
with a national literacy program launched in 1972 aimed at eradicating
illiteracy by the end of 1975; an assessment of the effectiveness of this
program is scheduled during 1976 when any necessary follow-up action would
be planned.
i.06      A significant educational policy change announced in November 1974
was an advance in the target year for the attainment of universal primary
education (UPE) to 1977. In view of the magnitude and cost of the implied
increase in enrollments from 1.29 million in 1974 to some 3.00 million, it appears
very doubtful whether universal primary education can be achieved, with the
maintenance of present standards of teaching and associated facilities, before
1980.  The Government plans to conduct a thorough review of the content and
delivery system of primary education in order to ensure the success of the
UPE policy without placing undue strain on present and projected available
resources.
3.07      The third Five-Year Plan (1975-80), due for early publication, is
likely to give priority to the measures adopted during the previous Plan
period, but with increased emphasis on basic, adult and primary education.
At the same time, the diversification and improvement of secondary education
to a broader curriculum orientation and the teaching of practical subjects
will most likely be continued so that the targets announced previously may
be met.
Financing Educational Development
3.08      The gradual planned expansion of Tanzania's educational system is
reflected in the growth of expenditures (Annexes 5, 6 and 7). In recent
years, the total budget devoted to education has been about 17% of Central
Government's total expenditures as shown below:
In Million of T Shs (current prices)
Capital and                  1969/70     1971/72     1973/74
Recurrent Budgets                                         (est.)
1. Central Government
Total Budget                  2,138       2,636       4,108
2. GDP (at factor cost)             8;720      10,460      13,290
3. Central Government /1
Educational Budget              359         460         689
3 as a % of 1                  16.8        17.5        16.8
3 as a % of 2                   4.1         4.4         5.1
/1   Includes expenditures by Regions.



-6-
The ratio of educational expenditure to Central Government total budget is
significantly lower than those in other African countries as shown by the
following:
Gabon      Malawi      Swaziland     Zaire
(1973)      (1973)      (1972)       (1972)
Proportion of the budget
devoted to education               22%         20.9%       19.7%        21.3%
Because the principal generator of recurrent costs, viz., primary teacher's
salaries, are lower in Tanzania than most African countries, allocation of
about 17% of Government budget to education in 1973/74 appeared reasonable,
and, in view of the high priority accorded to primary education, within the
Government's financial capabilities.
3.09      Future educational expenditures would be prlncipally influenced by
Government's policy of early implementation of universal primary education
(UPE). In view of teacher and financial constraints, the present target
date of 1977 seems unrealistic, but a date of 1980 for 100% of the seven-year
old children entering primary schools (Annex 3) is financially possible.
Using the assumptions that the average teacher's salary would remain unchanged
at T Shs 5,500 and with student/teacher ratios of 45/1 and 35/1 in Standards
1-4 and 5-7 respectively, then a total of 53,000 teachers would be required
at a cost to include salaries and administration of T Shs 330 million in 1980.
3.10      Based on a Government revenue annual real growth rate of 3.2%, 1/
total recurrent expenditures on education could rise to T Shs 655 million in
1980 of which T Shs 269 million would be devoted to primary education leaving
a shortfall of T Shs 61 million. It may be possible to attain the enroll-
ment target within a total recurrent expenditure of primary education of
about T Shs 270 million if the average number of students per teacher is
proportirnately increased thus reducing the demand for teachers, 'but the
most probable solution to be adopted by the Government would 'be the employ-
ment of secondary school graduates on a voluntary or semi-voluntary basis
so causing a substantial saving in the largest recurrent cost item, viz.,
teachers' salaries. It is advisable to develop short-term programs in teach-
ing techniques for these voluntary or semi-voluntary teachers in order to
attain maximum benefit from their deployment. The proposed review of primary
education (para. 3.06) is expected to examine these issues in detail and
formulate appropriate recommendations.
3.11      Given the postponement of publication of the Five-Year Development
Plan (1975-80), an estimate of future capital expenditures at this stage
would be largely conjectural. However, because the Plan is expected to give
major emphasis to directly productive investments, capital available for
significant educational developments is likely to be restricted. Conse-
quently, the major expansion required for primary schools is being imple-
mented by building schools on ta self-help basis using local materials and
1/   Based on, IMF data.



-7-
at minimum cost to Government.  For other developments in the educational
sector, Tanzania, as in the past, is likely to receive substantial assist-
ance from multilateral and bilateral sources, which in 1974/75 amounted to
T Shs 17 million in grants and credits;
Conclusion
3.12      The attainment of UPE is the main element of Tanzanian education
policy and requires a concerted effort to expand basic education opportunities
at the lowest possible cost. As indicated in the previous paragraphs, in line
with the policy of self-reliance, the Government intends to promote UPE by
fostering self-help construction and reducing unit cost of instruction through
the employment of teachers on a voluntary and semi-voluntary basis. Also,
within the framework of the Tanzanian decentralization policy (para. 2.06),
the principal contribution to the advancement of UPE is expected to be made
at Ward and village levels; this requires improved organization and manage-
ment of the villages. Possible areas for external assistance to UPE (i.e.,
the provision of teaching aids such as textbooks and tools) are still being
studied by the Government and pertinent investment programs and projects may
be developed in the late 1970s after the planned review of the content and
delivery system of primary education has been completed.
3.13      As UPE will be the focus of Tanzanian educational policy over the
next few years and needs at the other levels of the education sector appear
to have been by and large met (para. 3.03), no major expansion of post-primary
education is expected to be contemplated in the forthcoming Third Five-Year
Plan. The draft Plan gives priority to the continuation of the program to
broaden the secondary school curriculum through the teaching of practical
subjects and to the provision of specific skill training schemes, of which the
most urgent concerns the training of personnel for the village development
policy (para. 2.02). The proposed education project, described in the next
Chapter, has been developed in support of these objectives.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The principal objectives of the proposed project are:   (i) to improve
the management and organization of about 7,500 ujamaa villages through the
provision of personnel trained in appropriate skills; (ii) to continue the
reorientaFion of secondary education started in 1963 through provision of
facilities for the teaching of science and practical subjects; (iii) to
rationalize and plan training and development of accounting, auditing and
allied subjects; and (iv) to establish a basis for the future planning of
primary and secondary school development by carrying out a comprehensive
inventory of existing secondary school facilities as well as review of the
content and delivery system of primary education.



-8-
4.02      The proposed project would meet these objectives with the following
items:
(i)  Equipment, furniture and vehicles for five Rural
Training Centers (RTCs) where existing cooperative
field staff would be retrained; pedal-cycles and
house-building materials for the VMTs would be
provided, To facilitate supervision of the VITs, 500
motorcycles would be provided for staff at District
headquarters. Incremental operational costs 1/ would
be included f or this item.
(ii) Buildings, furniture and equipment to support the
teaching of science and practical subjects in 15
secondary schools whose present capacity of 6,920
students would be increased to 9,020.
(iii) The cost of specialists' services: (a) to assist the
National Board of Accountants and Auditors to carry
out a survey on existing related training facilities,
to formulate a well-conceived national training plan
and to define professional standards for Tanzania's
accountants and auditors; (b) to assist the Ministry
of National Education to carry out a survey and
investigation into facilities and their utilization
in all general secondary schools; and (c) to strengthen
the Ministry of National Education's Project Unit.
(iv) The cost of a review of the content and delivery system
of primary education.
Project Items
4.03      The Village Management Technician Training Program. Because this
program is of a type which is new in Tanzania for the Bank Group, it is
described in detail in Appendix II and its salient features are outlined in
paras. 4.C4-4.07 below.
4.04      The program is planned to meet the urgent need to train the exiLst-
ing field strength of 1,500 cooperative inspectors and community developmnent
workers to become Village Management Technicians (paras. 2.06-2.08) and to
provide essential facilities at Ward level so that they couLd oplerate
effectively in the villages; these facilities include stationery for book-
keeping and record purposes, 2,000 pedal-cycles for transport between Wards
1/   These costs would cover limited subsistence and travelling expenses for
VMTs when attending courses, stationery and office requirements, gasoline,
and spare parts for the motorcycles and pedal-cycles.



-9-
and villages 1/ and construction materials for some 1,500 modest houses which
would be built as a part of a carefully designed self-help scheme.
4.05      Planning of the program, which is in an advanced stage, has been
carr;.ed out by the staff of the Prime Minister's Office with specialist
assistance from a team from the NORDIC 2/ countries who have had wide exper-
ience of Tanzanian rural development extending over the last seven years;
Bank G1%up staff have helped ir. detailed programming. Two types; of courses
have been fully developed: a 5-week course for the more experienced coopera-
tive field staff and a 14-week course for those of limited experience. Cur-
ricula, syllabi and teaching programs have been developed to train 1,500
cooperative field staff on a phased program. Details of the courses have
been reviwed by the Association and found satisfactory. In view of the
urgency for training the VMTs and its high priority, the Goverment intends
to complete the program by end-December 1977, when plans for a second stage
of the program should have been prepared. The Prime Minister's staff will
continue to adhere to this tight timetable; however, in view of implementation
difficulties generally encountered in Tanzania, the proposed project assumes
that the program would be completed by end-December 1980. Estimated price
increases have been computed on the basis of this schedule; if it proves to
be too long a time scale, the resultant savings would be utilized to accele-
rate the second stage of the program or for other project related items,
*    after agreement between the Government and the Association.  To cover the
probability of early expenditures in implementation, limited retroactive
financing fs recommended (para. 5.16).
4.06      Within the Prime Minister's Office and responsible to the Commis-
sioner for Ujamaa and Cooperatives, a Project Executive has been formed
headed by a Program Director wyho has been appointed (Annexes 8 and 9); the
Government has appointed a local man of the highest calibre to this post.
The Project Executive will continue to be supported by the services of at
least five experienced members of the NORDIC group whose involvement in
planning has included preparation of literature and instructional pamphlets
both for the courses and subsequent use by VMTs in their village activities.
4.07      The NORDIC team at present comprises 26 experts with a Project Coor-
dinator attached to the Prime Minister's Office. Specialist staff and manage-
ment technicians of the team assist with the work of the Ujamaa and Cooperative
Development Department at Headquarters and Regional levels. Eight NORDIC staff
are attached to the Cooperative's College at T-Toshi which provides the training
for the staff of the Ujamaa and Cooperative Development Department of the
1/   It includes a replacement pool of 500 pedal-cycles.
2/   The NORDIC countries comprise Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and
Sweden who are jointly financing the specialists; DANIDA is the executing
agency for the Tanzania-NORDIC rural development project.



-10-
Prime Minister's Office. An agreement has been reached between the Govern-
ment and the NORDIC authorities that not less than five appropriately expe-
rienced experts will be provided for the Project Executive in the Prime
Minister's Office and their services would be retained during the whole period
of project implementation. The following posts would be filled by NORDIC
personnel:
Deputy Director
-    Extension Aids Production Officer
-    Planning and Evaluation Officer
-    Training Advisor
-    Financial Controller
To ensure continuity of the initial and subsequent programs, it is essential
that counterpart local staff be attached to the NORDIC team. The Government
confirmed that adequate local staff would be attached to the Project Executive.
4.08      The extension aids production officer and planning and evaluation
officer would serve for the duration of the project; funding of the training
advisor and financial controller is initially committed for 24 months only
as it is intended that these officers wi.ll be able to hand over to counter-
part staff after that period. In addition, the Project Executive would be
able to call upon the services of six NORDIC project spec3alists (based at
the NORDIC Project Headquiarters in Dar-es-Salaam) and staff from the Coopera-
tive's College, Moshi, to assist with teaching of specific courses as neces-
sary. Also, NORDIC project study organizers, stationed at three Regional
Headquarters, would assist with follow-up and evaluation work once VMTs
complete their training and are posted to the field. The Project Executive
regards evaluation of the effectiveness of the program as of vital importance.
Members of the Project Executive would regularly visit Wards, observe the
VMTs in action, discuss village problems with Ward secretaries, VMTs and
other officials at Ward and village levels, observe whether the self-help
house-building program is progressing satisfactorily and determine whether
the cycles are being used in a proper manner and for the purpose for which
they were supplied. The findings obtained from these visits would be system-
atically recorded and analyzed at headquarters of the Project Executive and
the analyses would form a base for improvement of the on-going program and
the planning of subsequent phases. The Government confirmed that a semi-
annual report on the evaluation of the VMTs training program will be furnished
to the Association.
4.WO      The Project Executive is selecting about 30 of the best and most
experienced cooperative inspec.tors to attend a special course at the Kisarawe
(Dar-es-Salaam) RTC to fit them as instructors at the four RTCs at Shinyanga,
Nzega, iMbulu and I7inga where intensive courses for about 1,500 cooperative
inspectors and conmmunity devel,opment workers would be held before they are
posted ito Wards as VMTs.
4.10      Extensions to General Secondary Schools.   Tanzania has 84 general
secondary schools of which 68 have reaceived varying degrees of assistance
from the first, sec.ond and fourth eduication projects. The thrust in the



first project was for a general expansion of enrollments to meet urgent
manpower needs, while in the second and particularly the fourth projects
the objective was to improve the quality and relevance of teaching, parti-
cularly in scientific and practical subjects. Assisted by the International
Institute of Educational Planning, the Government is about to conduct a
formative evaluation of the secondary school curriculum as part of a Bank
Group-funded research project on education evaluation techniques. The
evaluation is expected to provide recommendations as to specific measures to
strengthen instruction in scientific and practical subjects. In the proposed
project, the Government wishes to further pursue the objective of broadening
the secondary school curriculum by appropriate additions to 15 general second-
ary schools.
4.11      Bilateral agencies are also assisting these improvements to secon-
dary education, the main donor being NORAD who are constructing agriculture
sections at 20 schools, commerce sections at 22 schools, and home economics
sections at six schools while the Netherlands Government is providing tech-
nical sections at four schools with Government financing similar developments
at two schools.
4.12      These developments, together with those included in the Association's
previous education projects and those included in the proposed project, form
well-balanced improvements to most of Tanzania's schools and take full account
of the urban or rural environments of the schools as well as employment and
further education opportunities for the school leavers.
4.13      There is an adequate supply of teachers for all secondary school
subjects. General and scientific subject teachers are trained at the Depart-
ment of Education at Dar-es-Salaam University; agricultural teachers at the
University's Department of Agriculture at Morogoro; cormerce and home eco-
nomics teachers at the Dar-es-Salaam Secondary Teacher's Training College;
and technical teachers at the Dar-es-Salaam Technical College in association
with the Secondary Teacher's Training College.
4.14      Studies and Technical Assistance.  One of Tanzania's chief shortages
of skilled manpower occurs in the commercial sector; particularly in relation
to auditors, accountants and associated financial analysts. Recognizing this
problem and realizing the need to create orderly planning for future develop-
ment as well as to define professional standards, the Government, in 1972,
set up a National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA) charged with the
rationalization of this sector including the establishment of national qualif-
ications and standards for training.
4.15      There are seven institutes where commercial training including
accountants/bookkeepers takes place and the Netherlands Government is to build
another at Mbeya. The institutes operate under diverse managements includ-
ing the University, the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Finance.
Courses vary considerably in length, content and quality of teaching with
corresponding variations in the standard of instructional equipment and
buildings.



-12-
4.16      The 1975 intake into training courses was 820 and the NBAA would
like to increase this to 1,250 by 1980. In order to execute the relevant
planning and the possible development of a future project in the area of
accountants and management training, the NBAA are urgently in need of ten
man-years of technical assistance as follows:
(i)  Two specialists in curriculum design, each for three
years. They would survey all curricula and syllabi
of existing accountancy training with a view to their
harmonization and standardization within a framework
of appropriate professional standards for Tanzania and
generally define the examinations and experience needed
for registration of the various grades of accountants
and bookkeepers.
(ii)  One specialist in development of instructional
materials for three years.
(iii)  One specialist in training management for one year
who would survey existing physical facilities and
assess teaching and administrative staffs and hence
determine the need for expansion of facilities to
meet estimated manpower needs.
Provision for office equipment would be included in the proposed project
for use of the specialists.
4.17      Ten years ago Unesco carried out a comprehensive survey and assess-
ment of Tanzania's general secondary schools; in view of subsequent extensive
development of schools, the Ministry of National Education wishes to repeat
the survey so as to update its base for future planning of this education
sub-sector. Consequently, the proposed project includes four man-years of
technical assistance to cover the services of an architect and general
educator each for two years. Provision for operational costs, including
one vehicle, for these two specialists is included in the proposed project.
4.18      As indicated above in paras. 3.06-3.13, the Government is making a
major effort to expand primary education so as to attain UPE by 1977. More
significant than the purely quantitative target are the intended changes of
the content, functior,s and organizations of primary education. Within the
context of the UPE policy not all the aspects of these changes have been
articulated. To fully develop them the Government intends to carry out a
review of primary education content and delivery system which will be, by and
large, organized and conducted by Tanzanian educators with assistance from
foreign specialists. The project would include two man-years of technical
assistance services as well as operational costs for the review.



- 13 -
4.19      A major problem in the implementation of IDA education projects in
Tanzania has been the belated appointment of technical assistance compounded
by delays in providing housing for specialists under technical assistance
contracts. Consequently, after reviewing this problemL the Government gave
assurances that the experts listed above would be promptly appointed and that
the best effort will be made to provide them with residential houses.
4.20      The Government continues  to investigate the possibility of obtain-
ing technical assistance from UNDP or other bilateral or multilateral sources.
Should such assistance materialize the savings, by agreement with the Asso-
ciation, might be used for project related items such as expansion of the
village management technician training program or improvements to further
secondary schools.
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost Estimates
5.01      Construction cost estimates have been derived toum costs obtained
following recent competitive bidding in the third and fourth IDA ec5ucation
projects. The average cost per square meter in Dar-es-Salaam is estimated
at about T Shs 2,400 which reflects a 130% cost increase during the three
years 1972-74. The schedules of accommodation are functional and appropriate
to student enrollments and the facilities at the five existing RTCs would be
improved having regard to the special training purposes they are to serve.
Estimates of equipment and furniture costs are also based on recent informa-
tion obtained during implementation of the third and fourth IDA education
projects. Operational costs included in the project provide for (1) the
Project Executive under the Prime Minister's Office including limited subsis-
tence and travelling expenses for 'VMTs when attending couirses, stationery
and office requirements and gasoline and spare parts for motorcycles and
pedal-cycles; and (2) the Project Unit of the Ministry of National Education.
The estimated costs and foreign exchange component of the various parts of
the project are given in Annex 10, and summarized as follows:



- 14 -
Details and costing of proposed fifth education project:
T Sh (millions)             US$ (millions)          % of
Local   Foreign   Total     Local    Foreign  Total     Total
1. Civil Works, Furniture
and Equipment
a. Village Management
Technician Training
Program                  22.11    16.12    38.23      2.75      2.00    4.75      43
b. Improvement of 15
existing Secondary
Schools                  20.18    14.65    34.83      2.51      1.82    4.33       1
c. National Board of
Accountants and
Auditors                   -       0.03     0.03       -         -       -        -
Sub-Total of 1           42.29    30.80    73.09      5.26     3.82     9.08      84
2. Operational Costs
a. Village Management
Technician Training
Program                   3.55     3.55     7.10      0.44      0.44    0.88       8
3. Technical Assistance
a. Ministry of National
Education L/              0.58     2.32     2.90      0.07     0.29     0.36       3
b. National Board of
Accountants and
Auditors                  0.64     2.58     3.22      0.08     0.32     0.40     _3
Sub-Total of 3            1.22     4.90     6.12      0.15     0.61     0.76       6
4. Project Administration
(including vehicles, local
transportation costs,
office supplies and salary
for local manager)
a. Village Management
Technician Training
Program                   0.64     0.64     1.28      0.08      0.08    0.16       2
b. Project Unit at
Ministry of National
Education                 0.28     0.28     0.56      0.03     0.04     0.07       -
Sub-Total of 4            0.92     0.92     1.84      0.11     0.12     0.23       2
Total Baseline Cost:           47.98     40.17   88.15      5.96      4.99   10.95     100
(November 1975, negotiation
date)
5. Contingencies
a. Unforeseen Events ( 8%)   4.58     2.36     6.94      0.57     0.29     0.86
b. Estimated Price    (29%) 16.94     8.72    25.66      2.11     1.08     3.19
Increase                                  -
Sub-Total of 5           21.52    11.08    32.60      2.68     1.37     4.05
TOTAL PROJECT COST (1 - 5) L2 69.50      51.25  120.75      8.64      6.36   15.00
/1 Includes review of primary education and secondary school facilities survey.
/2 Includes US$0.50 million equivalent in taxes.



- 15 -
5.02      Customs Duties and Taxes.   All items specifically imported for
this proposed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes
in line with the practice of the Tanzania Government to grant customs and
tax exemption to imports for educational purposes. Some of the building
materials to be used by contractors for use in construction of the proposed
project's institutions as well as operational and training requirements for
the VMTs (e.g., gasoline for motorcycles) would be acquired on the open
market and accordingly would have been subject to customs duties and/or
taxes. Of the estimated civil works costs and other requirements, about
US$0.50 million would represent customs duties and/or taxes.
5.03      Contingency Allowances.   Contingencies for unforeseen events add
10% to the cost of civil works and 5% to instructional equipment, furniture,
and project administration. Estimated price increases are based upon the
following annual rates for which price escalation has been calculated from
the base cost date (November 1975) in accordance with the implementation
schedule shown in Annex 12:
Furniture and   Training Operational Costs
Year     Civil Works        Equipment     and Project Administration
1975         24%               12%                   10%
1976         20%               10%                   10%
1977-79      20%               8%                     8%
1980         20%               7%                     8%
The high annual rates for price escalation for civil works are based on the
findings of a detailed review of recent building experience in the education
sector in Tanzania and an analysis of anticipated developments in the construc-
tion indostry. This study clearly indicated substantially higher than rest-of-the-
world average price escalation.
5.04      The Foreign Exchange Component of US$6.4 million has been calcu-
lated as follows: (i) civil works and furniture, 28%; (ii) instructional
equipment, 90%; (iii) project administration and operational costs, 50%; and
(iv) technical assistance, 80%. The US$6.4 million represents 43% of the
project cost of US$15.0 million (including contingencies and taxes) and the
IDA Credit of US$11.0 million would meet the foreign exchange component and
53% of local currency component.
The Financial Plan
5.05      The total project cost of US$15.00 million would be financed as
follows:



- 16
US$ Million Equivalent
Tanzanian         IDA          Total
Category                         Government        Credit      Project
1.   Civil works                         1.76            5.30         7.06
2.   Furniture, vehicles
and equipment                     0.07            2.00         2.07
3.   Operational and Project
Administration cost               0.51            0.55         1.06
4.   Technical assistance                0.01            0.75         0.76
5.   Unallocated                         1.65            2.40         4.05
Total                         4.00            11.00        15.00
Of which taxes                0.50                          0.50
The Government's total contribution of T Shs 32.2 million spread over a period
of six years with a maximum contribution of T Shs 8.0 million (including
T Shs 1.0 million local taxes) in any year is within its financial capacity
in the light of past capital expenditures for education (Annex 7).
5.06      The recurrent expenditures generated by the project would be about
T Shs 4.0 million, i.e., under 1.0% of the estimated recurrent expenditures
on education in 1975/76. This figure is low because the 1,500 VMTs to be
trained are already employed by the Government and so no additional expendi-
tures on their salaries will accrue from the proposed project's implementa-
tion. The recurrent cost of the project would therefore have negligible
impact on total educational recurrent expenditure (Annex 6).
Project Implementation
5.07      The project would be implemented in about six years after credit
effectiveness (Annexes 11 and 12) including six months for completion of
payments and withdrawals from the Credit Account. In view of the nature of
the physical aspects of the project, the implementation schedule may appear
overly conservative, but it has been developed in the light of experience
gained during implementation of previous IDA education projects in Tanzania
and takes realistic account of difficulties inherent in the country. If the
project is implemented more rapidly than presently anticipated, possible
savings on estimated price increases could be used for project related items
as agreed between the Government and the Association (paras. 4.05 and 4.20).
5.08      Administration.  The proposed project includes components which
would operate under the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of
Finance and the Prime Minister's Office. The existing Project Unit, which



- 17 -
is an integral part of the Project Planning Section of the Ministry of
National Education and is implementing the fourth education project, would
be responsible for:
(i) all operations concerned with expansion of the 15
general secondary schools; and
(ii) the documentation associated with employment of the
four specialists to be employed by the National Board
of Accountants and Auditors under the Ministry of
Finance as well as for procurement of equipment for
the NBAA.
As part of its ongoing responsibilities, the Project Planning section of the
Ministry of National Education will oversee both the primary and secondary
school surveys.
5.09      The Project Unit is receiving major technical assistance from a
Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA) team of experts and addi-
tional assistance from five experts provided by the Norwegian Agency for
International Development (NORAD) (Annex 13). The NORAD experts are
scheduled to terminate their contracts on March 31, 1978. An agreement has
been reached between the Government and DANIDA that technical assistance as
indicated in Annex 13 would be available to assist the Project Planning Sec-
tion of the Ministry of National Education and would be retained at least
unitil March 31, 1980. The Government provided an assurance that adequate
local counterpart staff, for on-the-job training and subsequent take-over
from the expatriate project implementation staff, would be provided.
5.10      The physical aspects of implementation of the proposed project
are scheduled for completion by June 31, 1981, i.e., 15 months after the
DANIDA team's contract expires. In case this contract cannot be renewed,
provision for three man-years of technical assistance to cover the services
of an architect, a quantity surveyor anid a building inspector are included
in the proposed project. Agreement was reached with the Government that
staff, generally as indicated in Annex 13, would be provided for the Project
Unit and maintained throughout the period of p-.,.ject implementation and that
all possible efforts would be made to ensure that houses for the architect,
quantity surveyor and building inspector would be provided.
5.11      For implementation of the Village Management Technician Training
Program, the Project Executive (para. 4.06) under the Prime Minister's Office
would be responsible for the organization and operation of the five RTCs, the
training of the VMTs, the dissemination of information to Regional and District
offices and the briefing of Ward secretaries. The Project Executive in asso-
ciation with Regional and District administrations would maintain records of
all expenditures incurred in consequence of implementation of the VMT Training
Program. As indicated in para. 4.07 above, an agreement has been reached with
the NORDIC authorities that not less than five experienced experts would be
provided for the Project Executive. The Government confirmed that all possible
efforts would be made to ensure that houses would be available for these experts.



18 -
5.12      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  The Project
Unit would be responsible for the design, preparation of construction docu-
ments and supervision of all construction.  Standardized designs already
used for the fourth education project would be used for the proposed project
and modified in the light of experience to incorporate maximum use of local
labor and materials. SAtisfactory sites are available and owned by the
Government for all proposed project items.
Procurement
5.13      The civil works contracts for the expeio     of the 15 secondary
schools are each estimated to cost over US$200,000 and therefore large enough
to require international bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Qualified domestic contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of
7-1/2% over bid prices of competing foreign contractors. Except as noted
below in paragraph 5*14, contracts for furniture, vehicles, construction
materials and equipment would be on the basis of international competitive
bidding if they can be efficiently grouped into contracts larger than US$120,000.
G-overnment procurement procedures, which are satisfactory, would apply for the
smaller contracts.  All decisions on contract grouping would be made by the
Project Unit in consultation with the Association. Domestic manufacturers
of fuirniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15%, or the
existing rate of duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing
foreign suppliers.  Standard sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of construction materials, furniture and equipment would be reviewed
by the Association. Review of tender evaluation documents for civil works by
the Association prior to award would be required. For equipment, furniture
and construction materials, review of tender evaluation documents would be
required for the contracts larger than US$120,000 equivalent.
5.14      As the VMT houses proposed in this project are individually small
and involve self-help contributions, they will not be subject to construction
contracts. Because of the wide geographic dispersion of the VMTs, construction
materials for their houses and their pedal-cycles would be purchased locally
by the individual VMT where local stores maintain adequate supplies of the
required items. For areas where such supplies are not available, the regional
governments would be responsible for purchasing these items and distributing
the needed quantities to individual villages.
Disbursement (Annex 12)
5.15      Disbiarsements would be on the basis of:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for furniture, equipment,
vehicles and technical assistance;
(b)  100% of ex-factory cost for locally manufactured
furniture and equipment, or 85% of local expenditures
for locally procured imported furniture and equipment;



- 19 -
(c) 90% of local expenditures on teclnical assistance,
and local transportation of equipment, materials and
furniture;
(d) 75% of total expenditures for civil works including
materials for VMT houses; and
(e) 50% of total expenditures for operational costs and
project administration.
Disbursements would be fully documented except for those! concerning (i) local
transportation of equipment, materials and furniture, (ii) operational costs
of the Village Management Technician Training Program, aLnd (iii) project
administration. Disbursements for these items4would be made on the basis of
a certificate of expenditure, documentation for which would not be submitted
to the Association but retained by the Borrower and available for review in
the course of project supervision. Upon agreement between the Goverument and
the Association, any funds remaining on completion of the project would be
used for other project related items (paras. 4.05, 4.20 and 5.07).
5.16      Retroactive Financing.   During appraisal of the proposed project in
June 1975, detailed planning for implementation of the Village Management
Technician Training Program was in an advanced stage (para. 4.05) and in view
of the urgency to train VMTs for village development, the Government wishes
to implement the program without undue delay. Consequently, retroactive reim-
bursement is recommended for (a) furnishing and equipping the five RTCs for
purposes of the Program and (b) general operational and office expenses for
the Project Executive. This could speed up implementation of the Program by
about six months. Retroactive reimbursement should cover expenditures from
October 1, 1975. The amount of expenditures before the date of the Credit
Agreement is not expected to exceed US$150,000 equivalent, of which US$120,000
would be eligible for reimbursement.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The project  includes three separate elements in support of Tanzania's
educational policy: (a) a program for the development of the personnel neces-
sary to organize and administer the cooperative villages; (b) continuation of
the improvement of secondary' education started immediately after independence;
and (c) the provision of specialists' services and studies required to
reorganize and plan further development in accountancy and financial training
and to review the content, functions and organization ur primary education.
In addition to the specific benefits outlined in Chapter IV above, the
strengthened organization of village life and the reorientation of the coopera-
tive movement toward productive functions (paras. 2.02 and 2.05) are not only
the main objectives of the VMT Training Program but also the essential pre-
requisites for successful mobilization of village resources and of the Tanzania
agricultural development program which is being supported through various Bank
Group projects. Also, the improved teaching of practical subjects in secondary



- 20-
schools would not only provide students with the background on which to build
experience and on-the-job training but also prepare them to teach a broad
primary/community school curriculum as a part of the voluntary or semi-
voluntary teaching service which they are expected to fulfill. By giving
priority to well-selected elements of strategic importance, the project is,
therefore, expected to provide a significant contribution to overall sectoral
developments.
6.02      In the light of the difficulties experienced with on-going education
and training projects in Tanzania (para. 1.01), particular attention has
been devoted to institution building as a part of the present project with
the expectation that one of the project's benefits would be improved imple-
mentation capability. In particular, through the technical assistance and
counterpart training provided by DANIDA and NORAD as well as under the pro-
posed project, the Project Planning Section at the Ministry of National
Education of which the Project Unit is a part, would become an efficient
school design unit to be eventually wholly staffed by Tanzanians; also the
standardization of design and instructional equipment promoted by the project
would result in improved efficiency and economy through the education system.
The Project Executive, under the Prime Minister's Office, would have long-term
responsibility for planning the training of village personnel and for providing
institutional coordination among several agencies of Central Government, the
local authorities and TANU; this may result in streamlining of administrative
procedures and improved communications at the various levels of Government
related to village development. The strengthening of the NBAA would assist
improved institutional coordination among the various agencies and institutes
in charge of accountancy training in addition to planning future developments
in an area of skill development particularly important for growth and effi-
ciency of public and private enterprises.
6.03      Risks.  The VMT training program is the first scheme of compre-
hensive in-service training for the promotion of village development launched
in Tanzania. It is also the first time that a Bank Group education project
includes a scheme of this type. Therefore, there are considerable risks
associated with its innovative and experimental nature: (a) the training
courses need testing; (b) the VMTs appointment would cause an alteration in
the existing authorities relationship at the Ward and village levels as
described in Appendix II paras. 10-12 and their effectiveness highly depends
on the acceptance they are able to gain from various groups of officials; and
(c) the success of the physical aspects of the program - i.e., the provision
of pedal-cycles and the self-help housing program - hinges upon initiative
and effort at the Ward level. Several measures have been taken to minimize
these risks: (a) a strong technical assistance team experienced with problems
of rural development in Tanzania would back-up the project and is already
in post; (b) courses and course materials have been fully developed and
evaluated in, detail; (c) provisions have been made for briefing the existing
authorities at the Ward and village levels on the role of the VMTs; and (d)
special programs have been prepared for giving to the Ward Secretaries
initiative, responsibility and control over the physical aspects of the
project at the Ward and village level. Most importantly, careful evaluation



- 21 -
and monitoring provisions have been worked out in order to gain experience
from the successes and possible failures of the first stage of the program
with n view of programing a second and broader stage at the opportune time.
6.04      In conclusion, in spite of the considerable risks associated with
the VMT Training Program, the benefits expected from the proposed project point
to its suitability as an integral part of the strategy for human resources and
manpower development of Tanzania.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AN]D RECOMMIENDATION
7.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points:
(a)  evaluation and reporting procedures (para. 4.08); and
(b)  implementation arrangements and training of counterpart
staff (paras. 4.07, 4.19 5.09,, 5,10 and 5.11).
7.02      Retroactive reimbursement is recommended for the Village Management
Technician Training Program for (a) furnishing and equipping the five RTCs
for train:Lng purposes and (b) general operational and office expenses for the
Project Executive (para. 5.16).
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$11.0 million equivalent to the United Republic of Tanzania.



APPENDIX I
Page 1
UNITED REP?UBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EIDUCATION PROJECT
Education and Training System
Educational Strategy
1.        Tanzania's First Five-Year Development Plan (1964-69) contained
the educational strategy that the ccuntry wa; to adopt for the years imme-
diately after independence. In accordance wiLth that strategy, priority
was given to measures designed to obtain an adequate supply of skilled
manpower by 1980, and to provide a comprehensive educational system for
adults and children at the earliest possible opportunity. Education priori.-
ties in this period also concentralted upon technical education and the
provision oL specialized training t-equired by the various ministries and
technical agencies of the Government.
2.        Toward the end of the First Plan period, the Government in 1967
enunciated the Arusha Declaration which made explicit the socialist ideology
of the country and outlined the twin pillars of a new development strategy:
self-reliance and rural development. Soon after the publication of the
Arusha Declaration, President Nyerere issued a new policy declaration on
education entitled:  "Education for Self-Reliance."    The direction and
policy orientation mapped out by Education for Self-Reliance and the Arusha
Declaration were reflected in the Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74).   The Plan
announced a shift: in emphasis towards pirimary education, committing the
Government to universal primary education by 1989.
3.        The massive expansion of primary education envisaged in the Second
Plan was meant to be effected in part: by the reduction in the growth of
secondary school enrollment.  The Second. Plan also envisaged the further
development of a range of post-secondlary training in accountancy, commerce,
management, administration, secretarial skills, agriculture, health, coopera-
tive studies, local government, etc., for which the foundation had been laid
in the first Plan period.  Further, lthe Second Development Plan had major
implications for non-formal and adult: education. By shifting emphasis to
rural areas, the Second Plan required the Government, assisted by local
organizations; to develop a variety cf adult and non-formal education
schemes in such fields as health education, sanitation, community develop-
ment and political education. In particular, the Plan indicated that
primary schools would be used for the teaching of such skills. The primary
school was to become a "community center "--a focal point for the educational
needs of a whole conmunity, rather than remaining as a detached institution
to be used only for the education of children.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
4.        The Second Plan was modified in 1971 to give greater priority to
the provision of basic services--water, health and education--to all the
population. Accordingly, a national literacy program was launched in 1972
aimed at eradicating illiteracy by the end of 1975.  In another significant
policy change, annouinced in November 1974, the target year for the attain-
ment of universal primary education was set at 1977.  In that announcement,
it was also stipulated that secondary school outputs would not obtain direct
entry into the University, but would enter employment for an unspecificed
period before being adm.Ltted into the University.
5.        The Third Five-Year Plan (1975-80), which the Government is expected
to publish shortly, is likely to give priority to the measures adopted during
the previous Elan period, with increased emphasis being accorded to basic,
adult and primary education. At the same time, diversification of secondary
education will probably be continued.
Organization and Management
6.        Public primary schools are directed by 21 Regional Education
Officers operating througyh 80 District Education Officers. Secondary, tech-
nical, teacher train:ing amd higher education are under the direct control of
the Ministry of National Education. Private schools are controlled by the
Government but receive no financial support. In addition, there are a number
of professional schools end training programs which are operated either by
parastatal organizations or by Government agencies other than the Ministry
of National Education. Nbst of these institutions were established to provide
in-service or pre-service specialized training for a particular Ministry or
parastatal agertcy.
General Education
7.        Primary education begins at age seven and is a seven-year course
(Standards 1-7).  Swahili is the language of instruction but English is
taught at all le1rels. Fees were abolished in 1973. A promotion examination
at Standard 4 for pupils iln primary schools was progressively phased out
and the last such examinat:ion was held in 1973.
8.        In the period since independence (1961-74), enrollments in public
schools increased i-rom nearly 500,000 to 1.29 million representing about 44%
of the relevant age group. Standard 1 enrollment in 1974 amounted to about
57% of the age group; however,, this included a significant number of over-
age pupils. Enrollment in private schools was estimated at nearly 23,669,
but is likely to decrease as public schools are expanded. There are in total
about 5,185 schools, 372 of them private.
9.        Nearly 90% of primary school leavers terminate their formal educa-
tion at primary level, and the curriculum is aimed principally to meet their



APPENDIX I
Page 3
needs rather than those of the minority who proceed to secondary schools. Most
primary schools have a garden and some 20% have a practical subjects room.
Increasing emphasis is being given to agriculture, home science and simple
craft work.
10.       Due to the scattered nature of the Tanzanian population, access
to primary education has been difficult in rural areas. The ujamaa villages
development policy is gathering scattered families into new villages, thereby
facilitating the spread of primary education in the rural villages.
11.       General secondary education comprises a four-year lower secondary
course (Forms 1-4) followed by a two-year pre-university course (Forms 5 and
6). All post-primary education is in English and no fees are charged in
public schools. Dropout and repetition rates are negligible. After completing
Form 4, pupils sit for the National School Certificate examination and at the
end of Form 6 for the National Higher School Certificate examination. These
examinations were first instituted in 1971, replacing the East African
examinations which themselves had replaced the Cambridge University examina-
tions.
12.       Enrollments in public secondary schools are geared to manpower
needs. Total enrollment during the period 1961-1974 nearly tripled to some
36,000 while at the pre-university level enrollments increased more than
seven-fold to about 3,700. Even so, secondary enrollments amounted in 1974
to only 2.5% of the 14-19 years age group, 2.8% at the lower level and 0.8%
at the upper. In line with the Government's policy to gear secondary school
enrollment to manpower needs, the progression rate (from Standard 7 to Form 1)
has been declining; it went down from 11.2% in 1970 to 6.9% in 1974.
13.       Secondary school standards are reasonably good. Over 90% of the
teachers are trained Tanzanians (1974) as against only 15% in 1967. The
curriculum is still largely academic though it has been adapted to the local
background in such subjects as history, geography and biology. Increased
emphasis is now being given to practical subjects such as agriculture, com-
merce, craft training and home science; this change is being supported in
the fourth and proposed fifth educational projects. The new entrance require-
ments for the University (para. 4) will have an effect on the secondary
curriculum, especially at Forms 5 and 6 level. One such implication is that
the secondary school course, particularly in Forms 5 and 6, will have to
prepare students directly for work because they are expected to enter employ-
ment before being admitted to the University.
14.       Nearly three-fourths of secondary school students are boarders;
only in Dar-es-Salaam schools do day pupils outnumber boarders. The need
for boarding facilities arises from the low population density and the large
catchment area of all secondary schools outside Dar-es-Salasm. In addition,
secondary school students require facilities for study which are provided
in boarding schools but which are lacking in many Tanzanian homes; the
performance of boarding school pupils in examinations is considerably better
than that of day students.



APPENDIX I
Page 4
Primary Teachers and Teacher Education
15.       In 1974 there were 25,413 teachers in public primary schools and
about 930 in private schools. Of thesa teachers, 10,000 were Grade A (two
years teacher training following completion of Form 4), some 14,500 were
Grade C (two years training following completion of Standard 7) and the rest
were unqualified. Government policy is to use Grade A teachers for the
upper primary Standards 5 through 7 and Grade C teachers for the lower
standards. The salaries of Grade A teachers are on average 29% higher than
those of Grade C.
16.       In 1974 there were 22 Primary Teacher Training Colleges (PTTC's)
offering pre-service training for primary teachers with an enrollment of
5,951 in the Grade A and C programs. In addition, in-service courses for
practicing teachers are given in the Bagamoyo College of National Education.
17.       With only 44% of the age group enrolled in primary schools and
a high pupil/teacher ratio, there is a need for more teachers.   The main
constraint on expansion is financial. There is no lack of candidates for
primary teacher training courses, and the Government could effect significant
economies by gradually eliminating Grade A teachers and establishing a new
grade of qualified "primary school teacher" to be paid on the Grade C scale
irrespective of qualifications prior to admission to the PTTC course. In
view of the policy to attain universal primary education by 1977, the
Government has announced that a teacher training course would be introduced
into secondary schools so that students can teach in primary schools during
or after their secondary school studies as part of their employment prior
to be considered for University admission. This employment is likely to be
largely on a voluntary basis and so help to keep the cost of the attainment
of universal primary education to a minimum.
Secondary Teachers and Teacher Education
18.       In 1974 there were 1,850 secondary school teachers in public secon-
dary schools of whom 1,670 were trained Tanzanians. The student/teacher
ratio is low at 19:1 and the Government is reluctant to increase it in view
of the relative inexperience of the Tanzanian teachers who have steadily
replaced expatriate teachers. Nevertheless, this low ratio is uneconomical.
In 1974 private secondary schools employed 585 teachers, giving a student/
teachier ratio of 24 to 1.
19.       Diploma level teachers for Forms 1-4 are trained in a two-year
course at the Chang'ombe (Dar-es-Salaam) Teacher Training College.   Courses
offered include training for technical subjects, commerce and domestic
science. Total 1974 enrollment was 470. Graduate teachers are trained at
the University in three-year courses; recent total enrollments have averaged
600. The entry to both diploma and graduate courses has been the Higher
School Certificate, but the Government is reviewing this policy, in parti-
cular with respect to entry to University courses. Planned outputs of
teachers are adequate to meet requirements to 1980.



APPENDIX I
Page 5
Technical and Vocational Education
20.       The four secondary technical schools at Moshi, Ifunda, Mtwara and
Tanga provide four-year post-primary courses with emphasis on industrial
skills; the courses would also lead to the School Certificate, thereby allow-
ing students to pursue higher education. The enrollment in 1974 was about
2,450 with the main development at Moshi where additions are being made to
provide for Forms 5 and 6 and leading to Higher School Certificate.
21.       Supported by the Vocational Training Act, 1972, trade training is
the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare which has
an agreement with UNDP to develop a National Industrial Training Program
incorporating an apprenticeship scheme. The project is being executed by
ILO with assistance from the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), and the first stage was completed in March 1973. A second stage,
including development of vocational training centers at Tanga and Mwanza,
is being assisted under the fourth IDA project. The Vocational Training
Center at Dar-es-Salaam has an output of 150 craftsmen p.a. and includes
a technical teacher training scheme designed to meet the Programs' future
needs. Other training facilities with an output of about 200 p.a. have
been developed using improved accommodation. Estimated output at the lowest
level--Trade Test Grade III--of the Ministry of Labour's scheme from the
three centers, when in full operation, will be 750 per year.
22.       The principal institute for technician training is the Dar-es-
Salaam Technical College which operates full-time and part-time, day and
evening courses. Because of very rapid phasing out of expatriates the
College is short of experienced engineering staff, but Unesco has recertly
provided a team to alleviate this shortage. Enrollment in the three-year
full-time technician course in 1974 was about 900 and 54 were enrolled in
the three-year full-time diploma course which follows the technician course.
The Federal Republic of Germany is assisting the development of a new tech-
nical college at Arusha to train technicians in 4-year courses of which
three years would be full-time in the college and one-year in industry.
There would be an intake of 120 students p.a. with an output of 100 techni-
cians yearly. Engineering training at degree level is being developed at
the University with help from the Federal Republic of Germany.
Management and Accountancy Training
23.       There are a number of post-secondary institutions, training middle-
level and high-level manpower in management, accountancy and allied fields.
However, their operational efficiency needs improvement and a plan for
general coordination is a prime necessity. Recently a National Board of
Accountants and Auditors (NBAA) was established to oversee various aspects
of the accountancy profession--training, planning, coordination, etc. It
is expected that the NBAA will bring about an improvement in the training
and performance of the professionals in the field.



APPENDIX I
Page 6
Education Radio
24.       Radio Tanzania broadcasts educational programs weekly for primary
and secondary schools. The languagies of instruction are Swahili for primary
schools and English for secondary schools. Subjects covered for secondary
schools include English, history, civics, and science. There is no national
television service and none is planned.
Nonformal Education
25.       Tanzania's development strategy is heavily committed to rural
development and administrative decentralization to village level. In line
with this strategy, Tanzania has an extensive system of nonformal education
catering primarily to rural villagers and farmers, as well as to village
and cooperative leaders. The 44 Rural Training Centers which train village
and community leaders are being supplemented by the primary schools which
are serving as community education centers for a variety of nonformal educa-
tion programs in health, sanitation, and community development and political
education. Precise figures are not available, but the Ministry of National
Education estimates that 1.5 million adults participate in nonformal educa-
tion programs.
Higher Education
26.       In July 1970, the three constituent colleges of the University of
East Africa became the three separate Universities of M4akerere in Uganda,
Nairobi in Kenya and Dar-es-Salaam in Tanzania. The University of Dar-es-
Salaam comprises Faculties of Arts, Law, Medicine, Engineering and Science
in Dar-es-Salaam itself and a Faculty of Agriculture at Morogoro some 120
miles away. The University also houses a Department of Education for the
pre-service training of graduate secondary school teachers and an Institute
of Education which gives in-service courses and works on curricula. Both
degree and diploma courses are offered; the total enrollment is about 2,100.
In addition, nearly 350 Tanzanian students are enrolled in degree or diploma
courses in Makerere and Nairobi and a similar number in post-secondary
courses overseas.
Education Finance
27.       Education and training in Tanzania is financed from both public and
private sources, but private sources, which before independence were relatively
important, now comprise less than 3% of all expenditure on education and
training. Due to Government's expansion of primary education, private
expenditures at this level are negligible, but for secondary education, the
share of private expenditures has been inck4asing to meet social demand. Public
education is free at all levels, but students pay for textbooks and stationery
at the higher levels.



APPENDIX I
Page 7
28.       Total Expenditure.   Total public expenditure on education in 1974/75
including foreign assistance, is estimated to amount to T Shs 885.6 millions,
i.e., about 5.9% of GDP (Annexes 5, 6 anad 7). Tanzania receives assistance
for education from many sources including India, Canada, the Netherlands,
Sweden, Denmark and Norway; in 1973/74, a total of about US$15.0 million was
received in grant aid and credits.   These figures are probably an underestimate
since items such as training and scholarships as well as direct-to-project
(non-cash) contributions such as consultants services and equipment are not
included.
29.       Recurrent Expenditures.   In 1962/63, the Ministry of National
Education's share of educational recurrent expenditure was approximately 80%
of total Government recurrent expenditure on education, but by 1972/73 the
proportion had fallen to 39%. This drop was due to the devolution of primary
and adult education to Regions and also to a number of Ministries embarking
on training programs--the most important being Agriculture, Home Affairs,
Health, Labor and the Prime Minister's Office--these programs in 1973/74
accounted for 14% of total expenditures on education and training. During
the period 1969/70 to 1973/74 educational recurrent expenditures grew at an
average rate of 15% p.a.
30.       The percentage breakdown of recurrent expenditure by level and type
of education has been as follows:
1969/70    1971/72     1973/74    1974/75
Administration                6%         5%         4%         7%
Primary                    50.8%        52%oz      42%        43%
Secondary                  24.0%        20%        27%        19%
Teacher Training           6%            6%         8%         6%
Higher Education           13%          14%        14%        17%
Adult                       0.2%         3%         5%         3%
100%         1 OCI,'    100%        100%
31.       As the table demonstrates, there have been no major changes in the
distribution of recurrent expenditure on education and training activities with
the exception of adult education which has shown a sharp increase in the four
years under review reflecting the active adult literacy campaign. Adminis-
trative costs fell steadily in relative terms between 1969 and 1973/74 but
have risen since decentraliz-tion of the Government to Regions. Primary
education costs have remained between 40% and 50% of total Ministry costs.
The recurrent expenditures per student for primary education, secondary
education and higher education are T Shs 180, 2,000, and 6,000 to 10,000
respectively.



APPENDIX I
Page 8
32.       Capital Expenditures.  Between 1969/70 and 1973/74, capital expen-
ditures on education and training more than doubled (Annex 5), and as a
proportion of total Central Governsment capital expenditures indicate the
continuation of the trend established in the earlier years of the Second
Five-Year Plan, that is, the growth in relative importance of expenditures
by Ministries other than the Ministry of National Education, the importance
of primary and secondary educational investments, and the increase in teacher
training facilities. Outside the jurisdiction of the Ministry of National
Education, investment has been expanding in training facilities run by the
Ministry of Agriculture (for the training of Ministry staff and the instrt,ction
of farmers and ujamaa villages), the Prime Minister's Office (for cooperative
and rural development training), Central Establishments (for civil service
training), and the Ministry of Labor (for vocational,-training).



APPENDIX II
Page 1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Village Management Technician Training
Introduction
1.        Consistent with its socioeconomic development policy for the rural
areas, Tanzania has steadily increased the pace of villagization of the rural
population. By mid-1975, some 5,000 villages had been established and the
Government anticipates completing this program during 1976, when the final
number of villages is expected to be about 9,000. While all branches of
Government are involved in the villagization program, the central thrust in
mobilizing the people, once settled, falls upon the cooperative movement
which has many shortcomings and problems which are largely rooted in
the historical legislatio-ni which emphasized regulatory functions at the
expense of promotional action.
2.        There is a lack of skilled personnel to undertake management
functions and the development of such people in adequate number will take
many years to attain and inrvolve the use of carefully planned and phased
training programs. An initial program would involve the retraining and
restructuring of existing cooperative field staff 1/ so that they may contri-
bute effectively to the solution of village management problems and assist
the reorientation of the cooperative movement towards production and red!,nce
the emphasis on regulatory functions.
3.        To assist Tanzania in this endeavor the proposed fifth education
project would: (1) help establish a Project Executive which would report
directly to the Commissioner for Ujamaa and Cooperatives of the Prime
Minister's Office (Annexes 8 and 9); (2) establish four highly qualified
training teams which will retrain 700 cooperative inspectors and 800
community development assistants and reassign them as Village Management
Technicians (VMTs); (3) provide pedal-cycles and house-building materials to
the VMTs who would be assigned to Ward level on the basis of one VMT for a
group of five villages; and (4) establish within the Project Executive a
monitoring and planning unit to continuously evaluate training needs and     -
methods and prepare for the second stage program.
4.        At every level of Government--National, Regional, District, Wardi--
there are parallel units of Tanganyika National Union (TANU) Party Committees
(Annex 1) whose purpose is to monitor planning and implementation to ensure
1/   Cooperative field staff comprise cooperative inspectors and community
development assistants.



APPENDIX II
Page 2
that development accords with Party policy. The lowest unit at Ward level
is relatively new and includes a number of villages varying from two to eight.
The VMTs would be the first group of civil servants to be posted throughout
the country at this level; they would be under the guidance of the Project
Executive who would operate in close consultation with the Commissioner and
the Regional offices of the Ujamaa and Cooperative Development Department
of the Prime Minister's Office.  Although ultimately the VMTs would cover
all the country, priority areas would be identified for the posting of the
first VMTs taking into consideration other development activities, parti-
cularly agricultural development projects.
5.        The VMTs, working closely in an advisory capacity with t%eir
respective TANU Ward secretaries, would become the Government's maina agents
in the villages; their work would concentrate on: (i) assisting villagers
to assess relative priorities for village development; (ii) drawing up village
development plans and obtaining support for these plans at the District level;
and (iii) training of village officials in bookkeeping methods and other
skills needed to help the administration of the villages.
Details of Training Program
6.        The Project Executive includes a training advisor (a specialist
of the NORDIC team) who is primarily responsible for planning, organizing and
conducting courses for teaching staff to be used for training the VMTs. The
teaching staff, who are being selected from cooperative inspectors who are
graduates of the Moshi Cooperative College and have several years of rural
development experience, would be given special courses at the Kisarawe RTC
near Dar-es-Salaam. About 30 would be trained so that 4 team leaders, 12
instructors and 8 support instructors would be available for posting to 4
strategically sited RTCs at Shinyanga, Nzega, Mbulu and Iringa. An executive
officer would be provided at each RTC to take care of daily administration.
All five RTCs would be provided with equipment and furniture under the pro-
posed project.
7.        The 700 cooperative inspectors would receive a 5-week course with
emphasis on management responsibilities and techniques applicable to village
development, while the 800 community development assistants would be required
to complet.e successfully a correspondence course prepared by the Moshi
Cooperative College to qualify for a 14-week course which would deal with the
broad technical and administrative aspects of village development. Two of
the four RTCs would concentrate upon the 14-week course, and 2 on the 5-week
course until all cooperative inspectors have been trained, when all four RTCs
would conduct 14-week courses. Details of all the courses, viz., the 5-week,
14-week and correspondence courses have been prepared with the curricula,
syllabi and teaching programs carefully integrated and designed to train the
VMTs in the practical requirements of their work in the villages.



APPENDIX II
Page 3
8.        Provision has been made in the project's total cost for the construc-
tion of houses for VNrs on a self-help basis. The siting of each house and
the initiation of the self-help construction work prior to the arrival of the
VNT at his duty station will be the responsibility of the Ward secretary;
consequently, the instruction of Ward secretaries in their duties in relation
to the VMT program is important and will form part of the project.
9.        Each VMT will have about five villages wi4thin his Ward and a visit
to each village would average about 100 miles of travelling. Therefore, it
is essential that the VfTs have pedal-cycles in order to cover their territory
efficiently. Lack of transport for present cooperative field staff is a
factor which severely limits their effectiveness. To facilitate visits to
VMTs by headquarters staff, funding is also provrided for five motorcycles
for each District headquarters. Repair and spare parts facilities would be
available for the motorcycles and pedal-cycles tlhrough the provision of a
repair depot at every Regional headouarters.
10.       The appointment of the VMTs to Ward level and the expansion of
their current responsibilities to include a technical management function,
will cause a significant alteration in the authority telationship at Ward
and village levels. Thus, to ensure the rapid integration and full effec-
tiveness of VMTs, it is vital that all those who are in any way affected by
this new arrangement are fully aware of the plans, the potential benefits,
and their own official relationships with the VMTs before the VMTs take up
their posts at Ward level.
11.       The following groups of officials are thus affected (Annex 1):
Party Secretaries at Regional, District and Ward levels; Regional and
District Development Directors, IJjamaa and Cooperative Development officers
at Regional and District levels; and their desk officers, Village Committee
members and other rural development workers working at village level.
12.       To ensure that the groups mentioned above receive adequate training
and/or orirentation in order to obtain their full cooperation with and support
of the V14Ts upon their arrival at the new posts, certain steps are necessary.
Since it will not be possible to post VMTs into all Regions at the same time,
a program incorporating the following components can be run for staff of the
first Regions to be selected. The program will be repeated as required for
staff from the remaining Regions.
13.       Since the District Ujamaa and Cooperative Development officers and
their desk officers will have responsibility for supervision of the VMTs
upon completion of their training, each of the first two aforementioned will
need to attend a 3-week course in order to be briefed on the new responsibil-
ities of the VMTs. The courses will be conducted by the Project Executive
at the Kisarawe RTC and the Moshi Cooperative College. Upon their return to
their Regions, the District and Desk Officers would hold meetings with



APPENDIX II
Page 4
Regional and District level officers and party secretaries to orient them
to the details and implications of the program. Prerecorded tapes containing
the essential points of the training for Ward secretaries would be distributed
and would form the basis of instruction. Following their training, each Ward
secretary would hold meetings in every village within his Ward to inform
village committees and rural development workers in those villages of th,-
purpose and plans of the VMT program.
I



ANNEX 1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Government Decentralization - TANU Party and Reiated Field Staff
National Level         -          National Executive Committee                                                                                                    President's Office
-                                                                                                   ~~Prime Minister's Office       -   -
Regional Level                    Regional Executive Committee                                                                      |   Regional                    RegionaL Development
121 Regions)                                                                                                                            Commissioner                Director
Regional Ulamaa Co:operatives
Development Off icer +                 "
2 Desk Officers
District LDvel                                                                                                                          Area                 District Development Director
(80 Districts}                     District Executive Committee                                                                         Cornmissioner
District Ujamaa Co-operatives
Development Officer +                   -
2 Desk Officers
I                                                                              -
Ward Level                                                                                                                                                          Ujamaa Co..peratives
l1760 Wards Gross                       Ward Committee                                                                                     r                        Development Assistants
but 1500 Rural)                                                                                                                                                     l= Village Management
Tech nicians)
Village Level
19000 Villages)1'                      Village Committee                                      Village Secretary              -   -   --      -   -  -    -   --
1 This represents the probable maximum figure when villagization is completed. Approximately 5,000 villages
are now in existence,                                                                                                                                World Bank-15177
lines of responsibility
-                technical lines
Source: Prime Minister's Office and Bank Group Staff



0..C        C4         0>     L> L  ax  '0C  (a  LL.-.   .0   . 01a   a ~ 0 0
0041  s            . ...
Zu.  -  S  --u-In-a,  .C,
(atZft  an.  La  &- a             -0 La& C'5                   a     a   a
LIWJ..S    0J C O O    '  *                                   -a0Ff.W    0 0 0 0
ELO.-   -  -na.,u- - ~ 0   F                                uaaaJ--au-n
-a 1
S                    1- :-MM1--                       (a  (a
hj0S-C  a .-. (1      - 14  1C. ()  0 ()  0  1   -. C  1
02 2'S.5i-a-S-U0"     .gaa   0uUf-Lo0Uc     'F  -r'F-0fa  a0u  DI0I~fJP0    -I WJSlV(
hat    S  &P.  . ZO-CS'-at a-  (-1%  -  U  (. --   5.  "     5....  - M  fu  -U  A' - '
4a-f t  .  Su.1                                                       W
W 40-   a  I L 11r
I                            .e                                   M   M  -  I
22  S
.0 .M0                               .0-fl.
0.  4  0.                  . a.j fu  '...nj  x.  *  4 .  in'.f   ..a -0  . c4 aU'0S-c-  -mu0.0
*X.Ji               & I                   &                                  . ,.,.  -  -
2      I                          >> 1-I
**     (     C  (a-      1  . ,C   a  0r  (a(     (a'0(aL,(
ft U   u-  S 3a
Z.  I  = 02* I 5
C  a  C M . (a.
aS    A 0(   S  .   :.M..0 .D. .,  .0 .  . 4 .  .j ?'5.((  .*.al  *l.  . . Z-.-n n *4  I .00  :?US5 - O .  n-a*''
S  0  S                 -10     14 0  0(ra1                     1-    '
a  a ..O-'a--  -~1'. ).4 C)  .()(.  ~a)..  x4  *4  4  I  4  a  ~-  (~  ~1( 4)  1! : tl!
b. I  ta-bM  - a *L la0  4'   ?--   ?0' 0  .C., o  .tMa  0 00  '-J   F00l(a40N.L 0 0-Ma'   -P4554.
S -I 02 2- a   .000  'O0.00   '.. -0.fJ.41''- O OfOZot  aagaa(a0  l 0 0   4-.Z0t  ~   -- - 4
z.a..m  a .a                              z
os-L,Mas- - - - - -.Ia                       9  .,tl   0 I  l  WNI I. rLnIu
.-a  C,
In-SMMS  4  -.1 a
.*.                                        .a-.- -.- -.-..  .I- 1-  1-  ,
0   'a . *1 *C I .0-, In  M"I I  .a5 . I O. I 0 - I r .0 F'0. U 'I0.I  IEU Sn'51. 0445-.,I -(N- 0 0 4V'U
~'-*  a a- i-  a ai-.e51 .  15  ..  *  - .-  . - - n..j.~.  . au.  -a-ru-..-.a (U.  .5'E - - -  .- -  - - - -  '- -
7Ua * Z(             s w"  I C  -I.  l  o  4- I  .I4 -IIUW'J7 Cl    ,'  to
(aSOhI.  S  C           S- )-   .4  4   ft  a  4  4 4    0 0        - Z



ANNEX 2
Page 2
COMPARATIVE FDUCATXON INDICATORS (CnWTD)
(DxCDMUR 3   1975)
:XN~  IGP    i  TOTAL:!   OF PUBLIC a        I                 iPRI. :AV.PRI.   1                :E
I   CAPITAI DEVOTEQIPUBLIC I EDUCATION      aLITER- *PRI. ICOMPLE. iSTU- eSCN.TEACNiPROGRESS-i SEC. tSTU- i
5AT   I TO EOU,a   EXP. I RECURRENT    IACY     aENROLLiTION      IDENTSISALARY INiTON RAYE IENROLLIDENTStHIGHER:
I      ,MARKETg fPIJBLIc:DEvnTE0:EXP ALLOCATED:     RATE IRATIO IRATE FORIPER    IRELATInN iPRnM PRTIaRATIn iPFR     IENRMLL:
IPOP, *PRICESI EXP..    I  TO   I      TtO:,   It% OF *: NET    sPRI.SCH,aTEACWs TO GNP/ iTO SIEC'.   I NET  ITEArH4- RATIO:
YRI(OOO) I (1151)I ONLY)   I  EDII. IPR!. SEC. MI.jADULTS): C!)    ICYCLE(XlaFR    I CAPITA   I   (I)    a (I)   tER   I (xi
CI() I$   (2) :  (3)    a  (4)  a      CS)     I (6)    a (7)   :  (A)    :(9) :(10)       I (II)     :(l?)  :C131 W41O
ASTA ANr OCEANIA
BAGAEH     7 3  12.5C,   70C     1.2   20,2.............23               SAX      *.       1         . A             t 3y    28
CHINACTATWAN) 73   l'5.I1CI  490C    1.3   10,0     981       2     B      98       q        0o                        Ssn~ 4 5  26  ;:;no
INDIA          71 563. SC,  htOC    2.AiVY *...      .....    ...    29     79K      ...      43A       *...    *        Pay   1?,)AY   iJ*OOAy
INDONESIA      73 123.OC    120C     1.8   11,0     63   23   14     62     63       90       32       5,0      91A ;    12     p-,.    2.100
IRAN           73  29.8C-   450C     1.3   12,6     508  Io8  I,21   so     77       74A      32        5.00B   AOA      20     3?      01.32Cy
IRAQ           70  10.IC'   170C    6.7    16.,3DR....................?     AICY     ...      22        ..       .        GWCY  26      6 ?Bry
JORDAN         73   2.OCi   ?70C    7,0     8.8     se   1s   ?1     5g     91K      76       38        .0               sOW    2P2     0.0n
KOREA          73  12.3C    310C    2.9    l9.,3    64   26    a     91     97       90       53        3.00    71       51     39      A*0(
LEPANON        72   2.9     700      3.5   18,0     19   400   0            86       A1       09        2. 00   63       2619   20     21.00
MAL%YSIA       72  11.U     4030    6.0    2240.............6*              90K      ...      32        ...      ..      33X    26      ..
OMAN          972   0,6     530     ?.3     1,      9     -   - s           24K      99       33        7.00    *...      0.0K   9
PAKISTAN       75  66,7C'   13nC     1.6    6,2    05    253  15     2      4TX      Sfl      39       2.00     *,.      17K     1n     A.OO
PHILIPPINES    74  3 9. 0C,  P2nc   2.5    10.9     73   1s   12    S8     104KX      .       34        1s      ...      06K     ...   2 1. OQ
SINGAPORE      12   2.1    1200     3.1N   1 6.2    44   31   is     75.A  107K      72       33        ...     99      417     20      A.,P5Y
THA ILAkND     73  35.5    P,20 C   3.QN   18,7    B51T 82                   7       91C      32       3. 00 i   I9C     21K    20      2.00
TURKEY         72  37.0     370      .     13,000................OSKOy               .,       300       *.       ..      22KY   27DY    ,. it Pl
YEM4EN         73   6.3     100     0.5     0,0     05    1    3P    1       5       1I       36       5.0      75              19      0 . O5FY
YEM4EN P.D.R.  72    1.5    IO      ? .3A  12.6     79   12          1p     fox      3 1      29      1 0. 00   99       12V    20      o. . aBAY
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING CUNIJTRIESI
NUMBER OF COUINTRIES:               67     67     Alt   59   59     62     71       0 1      72        3A      01       73     69      t,7
RANGE:                           (0.5-. (3.8-    (25- (0-  (0-.   (5-,   (10-     (17-     (19-     (1.A_    (7-      (.0-   (9-     (.01-
0.0 1   32.11)  96 ) 52?)  00)  98)     180K)    99 )    66 )      25.0)   99 )     75.0)  43 )     23.0)
OUARTILES:UPPER 1                 4.7    21.0    57    36   20    66'     91       76       AS        7       76       Ph     2A      L .719
MEDIAN:                 0.0   10.2     s0   27   is     so     7 1      56       38         0      63       16      21     P-.nn
LOWER 1                 3.0   10.0     02   17    It    20     OS       P5       33         1      P5         t     1q     0l.03
S_yM4BOLS:_1... DATUM UINAVAILARLE         Az1970 OR REFORE          MUCURRENT PRICES                      SOuRCFS:
-  MAGNITUIDE '41L OR NFGLIGIBLE 1BulQ71                   NuGDP
?  QUESTIONABLE                  C2197?                    P&TNCLI)DYNG FOREIGN AIlnI9JNI                    ANn P WORLn RANk
T NCLUIDES PART-TI4E STUnENTS D=1973                     QUCENTRAL GOVT. nNLY                                     ATLAq
COMBINED OTTH PRIMARY         E.Iq7O                    RS'IINISTRY O3F EDIICATTON (MOE) ONLY           A Tn 10 TPRD MISSInNS
S1rMTE AND STATF GOVT. ONLY                             AtiI/nR IINFOCr'
TkEXCLUIDING CENTRAL GOVT.                              .STATTSTIrAI
IJ*PURLTC ONLY                                          YEARRBOOK
VUTNCLIDTING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
WkITNCLIJDING IVERAGED STUDENTS
YNIUNESCO SOURCES
-------------------------------------- I..................r-------------------I-----------------------------------------------
CO`IP~RATTVE EDUCATTON DATA ARE USEFUL TN THE EVALUATION OP VARIM1S EDUJCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIs OFP FLATTVF ATAGFS OF EDUICATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VAF1InUS COUNTRIES. HnWEVFR,ON THE OASIS OP THE PRESENT DATA,CRnOSSNATIONAL cOMPARISON SHnIJID) HE APPRnACHFD WITH
GREAT CAUTION., DATA PR SENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN cOLLECTFD LARGELY BY THEr BANK MISSIONS FROm GnVEPNMENT SOURCES1 THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ES ~ImATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTs HAVE BEEN MADE To STANDARDIZE DEFINTTTONS AND wITHIN I IMITS, TO CHECK TH4E
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. 4EVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WnRKTJG TO IMPROVF THFM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OOCASTON OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE LISE (IF THESE DATA, THE FDNLLOWING OIIALIIFTCATIlnps SHOU)LD BF BORNE IN
MIND:,
C1)"EDUCATION' AS IEFTNED IN THE TABLE INCLuDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NOHNFnORmAI
(2)PRRTMARY EDUJCATION PEFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECnNOARY" EDUcATION RFFFRS TO ALL EnDUCATION AT THE SEr~ONDARY
.LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTUPAL)I
M3)LITFPACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROm COU1'~TFY CENSUSES. IN MANYrrOIJNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY ARP0knTMATTO]NS AND TT T5
.DOUBTFUL THAT ANY IJNIFnRM DEFINITIOnN OF 'LITERATC" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4)"PUBLTC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION"(COLS.3.3 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RErCURRENT FXPFNDTTIIRFS DEFvOTED TO EDIUICATTION SY
PUBLIC AND DUASI-PURLYC AGENCIES:
(Si-ENROLLMENT RATIO.S"(CnLS 7, 12 AND 10) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR *AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OP ELfGTILF CHILDREN ENROLLE'D FIILI-lTme
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY.-ARE OFTEN SUBIJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE'DF.vFInPING
COUNTRIES OWING TOl VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OP BASIC DATA(T1*E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). EN4ROLLMFNT FIGURE9
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STIUDENTS AcTUALLY IN SCHOOL. nVFRAGED STUDENTS WHOSF INCLUJSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNnTEB ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Primary and General Secondary Schools - Enrollments 1970 - 1974 and Estimates    for 1975, 1980 and 1985
Standard/Form                 1970             1971              1972             1973             1974              1975/11          198012           1985/5
7 - year old                 423,400          424,360          425,320           426,280          427,240           428,200          470,800         475,600
7, enrolled Standard 1         40.8             44.8              48.9             53.0              58.0             61.2                100             100
Stand-  1                      172,596          190,091           208,331          226,071          247,627           262,000          552,000         475,600
ards   2                      152,234          166,590           182,858          199,119           217,283          238,000          429,610          445,300
>            3                     141,734           149,305          161,265           174,328          189,350           210,000          375,400         440,300
4            4                     138,458           138,246          144,139           153,169          169,251           190,000          324,300         425,800
Total 1- 4                   605,022          644,232           696,593          752,687          823,511           900,000         1,681,310       1,786,900
5                       88,614          102,608          116,461           133,300          151,724           165,000          247,000         411,800
6                       68,714           85,267          101,886           116,593          133,285           145,000          223,600         466,500/3
7                       65,624           70,502           88,656           103,807          120,366           130,000          205,500         354,300
Total 5 - 7                  222,952          258,377          307,003           353,700          405,375           440,000          676,100       1,232,600
Grand Total (Standards 1-7)  827,974          902,609         1,003,596        1,106,387        1,288,886         1,340,000        2,357,410       3,019,600
% admitted to secondary        11.2             10.7              8.7              7.6              6.9               6.5               5               4
Forms 1                        7,372             7,570            7,747            7,933             8,263            8,500            10,275          14,200
2                        7,148             7,623           7,715             7,894            8,155            8,400            10,100          14,100
3                        7,089             7,322           7,546             7,823            7,899             8,300           10,100          14,000
4                        6,713             7,044           7,052             7,371            7,929             8,200            9,900          13,900
Total Forms I - 4             28,322            29,559           30,060           31,021           32,246            33,400           40,275          56,200
7% admitted to Form 5          22.4             22.8             24.2             24.5             23.8              24.3             26.5             26
5                        1,506             1,608           1,705             1,808            1,888             2,000            2,600           3,600
Z            6                        1,339             1,436            1,523            1,673            1,792             2,000             2,600           3,600
0
Total Forms 5 - 6                2,845              3,044           3,228             3,481            3,680            4,000             5,200           7,200
Grand Total (Forms 1 - 6)     31,167            32,603          33,288            34,502           35,926            37,400           45,475          63,400
/1   Ministry of National Education estimate.
/2   Bank Group staff projection.  The enrollment figures for Standard 1 includes a backlog of 163,000 primary age children, to be admitted as follows:
81,500 during 1977-79, the rest (81,500) in 1980.
/3  The large in-take in 1980 due to the admission of backlog of primary age children accounts for the larger enrollment in Grade 6.
/   Bank Group staff projection.
SOURCES:  Ministry of Education school enrollment statistics, U[ Population projections and Bank Group staff estimates.
August 1975



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Primary and General Secondary School Teachers Employed in 1974
and Projections of Teacher Needs for 1980 and 1985
1974                                         1980                                                1985
(Actual)                                   (Projected)                                          (Projected)
Student   Student/ Number                    Student/                                                Student/
Enrol-    Staff     of          Student      Staff       Teacher   Teacher              Student      Staff     Teacher    Teacher
lment     Ratio     Teachers    Enrollment   Ratio      Demand     Supply    Balance    Enrollment   Ratio     Demand     SUDD1V     Balance
Standards 1-4  823,511      57:1     14,500     1,681,310     50:1     33,630     23,820    -9,095     1,786,900     45:1      39,710     37,090   -2,620
(deficit)                                               (deficit)
Standards 5-7  405,375      38:1     10,551       676,100     35:1     19,320     15,260    -3,938     1,232,600     35:1      35,220     21,660  -13,560
(deficit)                                               (deficit)
Forms 1-6       35,926      19:1      1,855        45,475     20:1      2,275      3,026    +  751       63,400      20:1      3,170       4,800   + 1,630
(excess)                                                (excess)
Notes:
1.  Teacher supply for 1980 was projected assuming annual output of Grades C, A and EO III teachers would be maintained at the 1974 level; the
Government's estimate of 3% attrition rate of reacher stock was used.
2.  Teacher supply for 1985 was projected with same assumptions as above.   In addition, a 25 per cent increase in the output of teachers was
assumed.
3.  The qualification of teachers for the various grade levels     was kept unchanged.  However, in order to implement UPE earlier than originally
planned, it is possible that the Government may use teachers with lower qualifications, particularly in Standards 1-4.
SOURCE: Bank Group staff.
August 1975



ANNEX 5
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Expenditures on Education and Training in Relation to Total Government Expenditures
(millions of shillings)
Constant Prices
Current Prices                                       of 1975
Provisional
Actual                   Expenditures   Estimates   Estimates
RECURRENT                       1969/70  1970/71  1971/72   1972/73       1973/74     1974/75      1975/76   1979/80    1984/85
Ministry of Education         245.0    281.3     328.9      166.5       268.8        312.7       229.7       268.6      326.5
Regional Expenditures                                       169.8      196.0        254.8        229.8      268.8      326.9
Other Ministries               63.7     67.0      67.9       94.3        75.7        91.1        100.3      117.1      142.0
I.    Zotal                       308.7    348.3     396.8     430.6       540.5        658.6       559.8       654.5      795,4
Central Government
Revenue                     1,577.0 1,683.0    1,859.2    2,357.0     3,002.3      3,990.1     4,007.0     4,690.4   5,706.5
2. Expenditures                 1,526.7  1,631.4   1,780.6    2,275.9    2,513.1      3,887.7      3,530.0     4,132.1   5,027.3
CAPITAL Li
Ministry of Education          29.3     44.5      34.5       59.7        50.3         64.9       112.9
Regional Expenditures                                       10.9         20.3         39.9        76.5
Other Ministries               21.2     25.1      29,1       44 4        77.9       122.2         68.4
3.       Total                     50.5     69.6      63.6      115.0      148.5        227.0       257.8
4. Central Government
Expenditures                  611.0    829.0     855.0    '930.0     1,595.0      2,092.0      2,590.0
T)TAL RECURRENT AND CAPITAL
5. Total Central Government
Expenditures (2+4)        27137.7 2,460.4    2,635.6    30 05 9    4,108.1      5,979,7     6,120.0
6.  Total Expenditures on
Education (1+3)             359.2   417.9      460 4     545 6       689.0        885.6       817.6
7.  GDP (at factor cost
current price,.)          8,722.0  9,485.0  10,463.5  11,800 0    13,286.0     14,960.0    15,663.0
6 as a % of 7                   4.1      4.4       4.4        4-6        5.1           5.9        5.2
1 as a % of 2                  20,2     21.3      22.2       19.0        21.5         17.0        16.0        16.0       16.0
/1 Due to the uncertain economic situation and the temporary postponement of the Five-Year Development Plan
(1975-1980), projections of capital expenditures must await final formulation of Government programs.
SOURCES: Ministrie4 of Finance and National Education and World Bank Group Staff estimates.
August 1975



ANNEX 6
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Past and ProJected Government Recurrent Expenditure on Education and Training
(millions of shillings)
Constant Prices
Current Prices                                 of 1975
1969170  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73    1973/74     1974/75    1975/76   1979/80  1984/85
Provisional Estimates Estimates
Expenditure             -
Administration & General
Ministry of Education                14.6     15.6     16.6      7.2       10.7        26.3       12.7      14.8     18.0
Regional Expenditures                                            6.8       10.0        14.5       12.8      14.9     18.1
Primary Education
Ministry of Education               124.3    140.0    171.0     13.0       13.4        24.0       14.2      16.6     20.1
Regional Expenditures                                          151.0      181.0       218.6      207.3     242.6    295.1
Secondary/Technical/Commercial                                                   1/
Agricultural/Home Economics            57.7     58.1     65.0     62.0      122.7-      108.7       90.0     105.3    128.1
.       Teacher Training                       15.0     17.8     19.5     24.5       37.7        34.4       30.7      35.9     43.6
Higher Education                       32.7     42.0     45.8     51.8       66.3        96.3       67.0      78.4     95.3
Adult Education
Ministry of Education                  .7      7.8     11.0      8.0       18.0        23.0       15.1      17.6     21.4
Regional Expenditures                                           12.0        5.0        21.7        9.7      11.3     13.7
Total                             245.0    281.3    328.9    336.3      464.8       567.5      459.5     537.4    653.4
Ministry of Education                                        166.5      268.8       312.7      229.7     268.6    326.5
Devolved to Region                                           169.8      196.0       254.8      229.8     26..8    326.9
Other Ministries
National Culture                        3.1      3.2      3.1      5.0        1.7         8.5        7.9       9.2     11.1
Health                                  1.9      3.3      4.8      9.0        6.7        18.8       22.3      26.1     31.7
Home Affairs                            8.1      7.2      7.4     10.0       13.0
Agriculture                            20.3     31.1     29.8     36.3       11.4        10.8       30.7      35.9     43.6
Prime Ministers Office                  1.2      1.3      2.6      8.8        9.3        11.8       13.6      15.9     19.3
Natural Resources & Tourism                      1.1      2.4      1.3        1.5         1.4        2.0       2.3      2.8
Central Establishments                  4.1      5.0      5.2      4.8        6.9         6.2        8.2       9.5     11.5
Labor & Social Welfare                   .7                        1.3        1.8         2.6        3.3       3.9      4.7
Other                                  24.3     14.8     12.6     17.8       23.4        31.0       12.3      14.3     17.3
TOTAL                                   308.7    348.3    396.8    430.6      540.5       658.6      559.8     654.5    795.4
1/ From Tanzania Fiscal Year 1973/74 funds for agricultural colleges and other specialized institutiond have been channeled
to the Ministry of National Education rather than fromD the other technical ministries.
SOURCES: Ministries of Finance, National Education and lWorld Bank Group Staff estimates.
August 1975



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Past and Present uovernment LapiLal Expenditures oni Educatiou anud Trai"in6
(Millions of Tanzanian Shillings - Current Prices)
1973/74
Provisional   1974/75     1975/76
1969/70      1970/71       1971/72      1972/73      Expenditure   Estimates  Estimates
Ministry of Education
Primary                      14.7         19.8          9.3         12.3          18.0         44.0       53.4
Secondary                     3.7         10.1         18.9         32.2          22.1         21.4       26.5
Technical                     0.3          0.2          0.3         10.9           5.4         19.3       26.7
University                    3.4          5.1    ~     2.5           9.3         19.0          7.8       29.0
Adult                         0.4          2.0                                     2.7          2.5       23.8
Teacher Training              6.8          7.3          3.5           5.9          2.9          9.8 /1    30.0
Sub total   29.3         44.5          34.5         70.6         70.6        104.8       189.4
Other Ministries
Agriculture                   3.7          1.0          2.0         11.6          12.3         16.9        8.6
Health                        1.5          5.1          0.6          2.1          31.7         5.-2       2.
Central Establishments        1.5          5.4         10.1          8.1          15.0          7.0 -      1.5
Labor and Social Welfare      1.2          2.6          2.4          5.0           6.4          3.3        2.3
8.5          6.2           4.0          5.6          6.4         35.3       21.0
Other                         4.8          4.8         10.0         12.0           6.1          7.1       13.0
Sub total   21.2          25.1         29.1         44.4         77.9        122.2       68.4
Total Capital Expenditures        50.5         69.6         63.6        115.0         148.5        227.0      257.8
on Education and Training
/1  Of which T.Sh 17.9 million and T. Sh 43.5 million   are devolved to the Regions.                                   >
/2  Of which T. Sh 12.5 is developed to the Regions.                                                                   g
/3 Due to the uncertain economic situation and the temporary postponement of the Five-Year Developiaent Plan
(1975-1980), projections of capital expenditures must await final formulation of Government programs.
SOtTRCES:  Ministries of Education and Finance and World Bank Group Staff estimates.                August 1975



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FI FTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Relationship of Project Executive to Prime Minister's Office
|    Pr.m. Mmniste
Fincriapl Seerstnry
CoCmmissie ror iPlanning                                                                                                                      Financial
charge each Dept                                                                               Ujaa d C.                                    Department                    Department                  Department
|                                                                                                                                             AudCt an                    Cade nmen|  Policy  A   |  d,e
Deputy Commissioner                                      Nordic                     Project            L        Assistance                   Developmentsi
in Charge each                                            Team                      E-ecutivI                                                Section                                                  S ction
Section
Regional                                                                         I
Development Director
F-i- '                                                                                                                                           _ -
R a  |m an                             , .            Lines of Responsibiliky
Rg,onal Uiamaa and-                       '                                                                   TehiaLns
.C-operative Development Office,  -                                                                             Technical Linen
Source Prime Miniseers ODfice and Sank Group Stafl                                  I RJT.C.n                                                                                        World BvA;k-15178



ANNEX 9
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Village Management Technician Training Program - Project Executive
Prime Minister's Office
_I __
Co-operative                   Education,                  Project Executive                Treasury                      Depertment
College                       University                   Program Director                      I                         MO
I                             I                                    -,_I_
Deputy Program
I                             i         I             Director _   _
IIFinancial Controller                                                                  I       Ministry of
Agricul ture
!        Extension Aids                                                                                            Planning
Production Unit                              ___Evaluation Unit
------ -------------------------------
Mobile                                    INordic Project
Unit                                      IField Advisory Staff*
I                    Training Advisor
I                                                         Nordic Project
I                                           Subject Specialists
5 Rural Training
Centers
Lines of respor'tibil y
- -    -   -   Technical lines                                                                                            World Bank-15176
* Source: Prime Minister's Office and Bank Group Staff



UNITED SiEPOSLIC OF TANZANIA
PlT SCTS PRJECT                                                                          2510
SSU900 OF ENSSLOMENT AN0D ESTIOOATED POOlEd COSTS
(IN T. ESH IN 000'.. BASED CIl 05V90E0 1975 PRICES (US $1 - T, SH1 8.05)
To,ts of             Cst of'     Cost f'            Tot.1 Cost
oo  <sto.                      Ss0-t Pl-oP     Ko. of     T.t.1 Arso   Coot f Civil Wit (l,dgo./Sit. W-rk.)  Coot f  Coot f     Phy.icsJ.  Op_rotlon,l Teobotho..  ProJect
7205300                                                                    Forsol   I -2 -RoSo'ff   i4o55 of V..   T-550ig/    Stf
ItOS            FOr                             T.,.,         Osgtso      Add   P1001     Sfo-s     C-ntrotios    C_.Ioa     H .. ig      Totol      Foo'st-o   EqoipReot  FPsSlitioR  co-t     A.oiotosos  AdoOoiot-oti.  To . T.bC  I- US
A-i   V.M.T.F. Sfoods5-0toPSPo-sos                            COast
A-2   Floe Sls.1 T-I3isg C-ot-r (RICO)         1. Sbhoysogo   ShisyssOs
2. N.g.       T.boRs
3. .OboSo     A-.h.     7   -               1,503       60,24o                31,057.0     31,057.0     -        7,309.0    30,306.0    7,008.0    1-17.                   46,601.0    1,789.0
S.Sls.--,e    Cosot
A.3   Villogs 1ooo.g-rt TeohoORi-o (VMT) Oot.t  L...tiso: -o for .s.h osod___
BASELINE COST OF SECTOI_____A __B_- _______t_- 195)i.T.Sh                                   -50                               30,057.0    31,0597.0     -7,300.0           30,366.0     7,108.0    -1,127.0               46,601,0
Is PR                                                            30858.0     30.50.0                900.0     4.766.0      863,0                  1 ,,$40.0             5,789.0
CONTINSEOSCIEO
o)  wROo-oORR                                             i.nR(0)O T. Sb                                                                3,107.0     -362.0               3,469.0      355.0                 5.           ,8.
O00                                                   8.Q        -          45.0      431.0        44.0                   7 0         -         482.0
b)    EotOostod Prios ORo-oss (07%)                           Os I. Sb                                                                     9,443.0     -        1,916.0    11,330.0      748.o                  2.        1,2.
i.u $1.173,0                                                          -238.0              1,411j3,    ..,.80               1...21.0.     12:222190
TOTAL CSITII-CRTES SF SECTOR 0 (337.5                        is T. Sh                                                                     133Q5.0.              2.370,0    14.828,0    1.13933     -,.j0~                 1.0,
280 33.0                  1.842,0      13        -         ..,.22.0..               2.001,0
TOTAL COST OP SECTOR A (TsRlsi-o C.otls-siolo 0007T-0)        So T. Sh                                                                    43,607.0     -        9.587,0    53,190.0    8.211,0    -1.304,0                62,709.0
100us$                                                                       5,4_7.0      -        1,391.0    0,608.0     1,02,0.    -130                      -        7,790.0
SECTOR S - GMSOSAL SECaOSARY SCHOOLS (Osso-tod th-osh Mislo.to of NOti .ool FdoAtlosi)
0-1   A-hob., Co-ed, ooS-.d-y OSbool.          As-.b.        A-.h.s        1.30    060                   770       1,933.0                 1,933.0    104.0       369.0     2,406.0      -        -            .2,406.0                290.0
B-2   Aoo-io, Sos', & ... dso' Sobsol          Ds-so-2o.so      . toRo     140     040       -2        1,130       3,110.0      -3,110.0             230.0      1,135.0    4.482,0      ---4,402.0                                     557.0
B-3   Gsosol 0,1, RO-RROo7 000001.             Os-so-SoJoo    CoOst        210     060
S-4s  Tosossg-g, Soya, Se-Od-y5 200001         frOogs        flogs.        3.70    4200                  620       1,821.R                 1,021.0    73.0        405.0     2,379.0     ---2,379.0                                     296.0
0-S   M-sos, Co-sd, Seo..odsoy Sobool          Roobi         C03.oosjar    3300    7220                  630        1,708.0     -1,700.0              245.0      000.0     2,433.0      ---2,433.0                                     302.0
B-6  1I.IS, C-ed, OPo...dOOF V-1-R0I           L15di          LiROdi       100     600                   640       1,985,0      -1,98S,0              014.0       461.0     3,360.0     ---2,560.0                                     318.0
0-7    E-pg-ro, Co-sd, S-sod-os Shbol.         Ooogr          SrgoPo       100     420       -780                  2,000.0                 2 ,007.0   146.0       416.0     2,369.0     ---2,369.0                                     319.0
S-8   Es,Co-sO, S ... d-oyooSh.c               hoOR-040s                   170     700                   T 30      .2,063.0     -2,063.0              135.0       500.0     2,77.0,0    ---2700                                        34,
0-9   CORSoR, Co-sd, Sss.-.oy rbool.           Tabo-          ToS-p        140     760       -750                  2,146.0      -2,116.0              046.0       609.0     2.071,0                                        2 ,870.0    357,0
0.3.0  Uoaoooa, Co-sd, So000d-73 Sbool         T,-go         Too...        AC      9800                  620       1,737.0      -1,737.0             104.0        645,0     2,486.0     ---2,406.0                                     309.0
S-U1  Mbe~y, Co-dS, So....d-ys Seboo.l         Mb.y0         MOosy         3.40    440                   660       2,537,0      -          2,537.0    136.0       732.0    3,423.0      ---                                3,425.0     425.0
9-I.  lleo SG10., Ssooodoo Sobool              M0e0           lossys       120     440 o
0-1)  NOod-d, CO-sd, SsoShy0001                Ndood.         M-or         130     S60       -            0O       1,200.0      -1,160.0              73.0        440.0     l,7Pl.0 O                                      1.781,0     221.0
0-1fs  flbor, Boy., S20-odoo 000001             pobh.        A-.hb.        200     560                   620       0,775,0      -1,775.0             135,0        504,0     2.414,0     -                     -2,404.0                 300.0
B-1.5  tROso, Soy., SeOOds.. sbo. d-7S.oosUb                 ES.lioosJas   100     460                   670       1,708,,j0               1.708,0    104.0       428.0    2,20.03      -                                  2.240,0    2783,0
TOTAL OF SECTOR B                                                         I.100)  9,020      -         09530       25,776.0                 _ 20776,0a  1,674,0  7.374,0   34.824,0     ---34.824,0                                  3,373,3
PROJ.ECT AEMISSTRATION
ft2.-t .df-_                                                                            -    -                 -         -           274.0      274,0      -       ,9.            9.           .7.         3.
0400100 00-7 OF SECTR S 020D PROJCT ADSI8ISTRAT2OS _(B-d 00-0b00- 1975)
OsC. S0                                              25.77600     -          25.776,0  1,674.0    7,0M0,0    35,098,0      -     2 9087Y         5,93I.     38.2940g      -
SO t2s $                                              3,202_0     -          3.202,0     208.0      950.0    4.,.360,..    -       360.0          37.0-
a) lhf-r.... 'r -oto (%)                                  So. Sb                                                                        2,577.0     00.0       386,0     3,043.9               -            1.           ,3.
S'0$320.0                                                             10.0       40.0      ,378.0                              2 . .0..L   ...Z....   300.0
b)    Eoti-aRd Poise i.c--ss 670%)                            So T. Sh                                                                    10,632.0    314.0     1,449.0    13,395.0      --32.0                           13,427.0
lo 0us$                                                                      1.445,0     39.0       160.0     1.664,0      -                       4.0         -        1,668.0
MM70 CONTlNGENCIES OF 10E-M0 0 (43%)
So T. 0                                                                      14,2090.    39.O      1.835,0   16.438,0      -         -40.0                  16,486.0      -
10 U0.$                                                                       1,765.0    49,.       228.0 2..70,  ,042.0             -          *,45(-                  2.0480,
TOTAL COST OF SETTO 0 02M1 PROJECT A92500T0
(To04g o        dsosoo 0 T-ne)                         So T. S0                                                                     39,905.0  2.068,0     9,483.0    50.536,0     -     2.898,0         346.0       547.700,0
So0us$                                                                      4.Z,967.0    257.0     1,178.0    6.402,0      -       360.0          43.0                  6.0,
SECTOR C - 04720000L 000202 OF ACCOUNTONT AND0At2IT70S
(losotrOll thpoob 81-40077 f0 Pi-.-.s
C-i   20,.A.A. 0. 'o-odq-otsPSpsOOlo                          Co..t                                                                          -          -          34,0O      34.0       -     3,220.0         -3,234.0                404.0
JELOSOE 002 OF SECTOR C (20,0d - O.tob- 1970)5-                                                                                                                   3.          40        -      ,,                          .5,
So7 b                                                                        .          4.        -       400.0         --                       4.04.0
CONTINSGENCIES
s) OOfPsoe  000 (5%.jT. Sh-                                                                                                                                 2.0        2.0            -                        -       20-
b)    EW-tfotd Sols ooooo (10%)                               is 7. Sbh                                                                                            4.0         4.0      ---4,0-
100us                                                                           -         -           3=         .i.ok     -         -           -
TO-SAI CTT`01L'1e7sC179 Co Ttl7My C (it!)
iTo .2 Sh                                                                                             6.0        6.0                                             6 -0,      -
i.0u$                                                                           -         -1.0                   3.0                 -           --                        1.0
TOTA COOT SF SECTOR C (Iso1.odio C.otir-essl- 00d T-oo)
So T. 50-                                                                                            40.0       40.0       -     3,220.0         -3,260.0                   -
Lo0us $                                                                         -         -           0.0       ,),Q              400.0          --                       405,0
TOTAL 10504000 COST OP PROJECT Sl-so- A - S - CI
i3T S                                                      6.033,0  1 67_4 0   14.991,0   73,498.0    7,108.0  6,118.0     1.4_2 5
So Us                                                                          7 .0603.3  2100 0   1.062.0    9,1308.0    ,353,0   760.0       _177.0I        -8         15_4933
COISGENOIECS ( ES-to, A - 03 - C)
5) Sfp,e  000 0)S . us0                                                                                                     3,_.0      00,0        750.0     6,514.0    355.0      -72.0                   61.941,0-
o)    EtolStsEd pi- io ....as 1361)                           is 7. 00                                                                   731.0,0      324.0     3.39,0     24709.0     740.0                  9,530       25,059.00
Os 0us$                                                                      21.600,0    394.0      4139.0    2,758330    938.0      -I19.0                  25,        3,008.0
Ca0TTh'SECIES CO8SPR9ON OF TOTAL PROJECT                                                                                                   261.        90         490       3060       _30311
(Oes   B -S-C)                                          1%47%                                                                                     24%        27%        43%        3.6%      -16%                      375        375
Is 7. Sb                                                                     26,759.0   394.0      4,119.0   31,272.0   1,103,0      -2L,1.0                32,600.6
laS U$                                                                       -3,324.0    49,0       512.0    ,3,885.0   1_37.0       -28.0-                             4.),
009N0 TOTAL COST 0O' PROJECTs (Sostop- 0 - 0 - C)
(IsoigCootsosois0d TZs-er)                              io 7. 2h                                                                     83.592,0  2.068,.     9.10      .46770.208  8.2110  61,0         j3431279.                   -
1o0us                                                                        1034,       5,0       234,        ,),      _000       7001.0     1,650))0      -20_749         S
7000259 EXCSOAE CE8POOEST 0F TOTA POJF.CT (Seolor' A - B C)10340                                                                                      2703050                          0_0       6000.                                5DD9
00 us                                                                        2,920,0     75.0     2,040.0     5,135.0    550- 0    010.        103.0                    6.358,0
i0%                                                                            28%        205      90%                    50%       00%          so%                      435



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TA6IZANIA                                                               ANNEX 11
E'TtI EEAT2EOV PROJECT
Implementation and Expenditure Schedule
- 175$ millions)
Negotiatios     Effective
Date           Date                                                                                                                                          Clostig Dote
(Novoab-r 1975)
Tota     n                      Firat Year               Second Year                Third Year               Forth Year                Fifth Year               Sixth Year
Cot i%    ___              2     3      4    .5      6     7     .8     9     10    11     12    13    14          S 1     7     1     19    2     2l      2    53     2
I.Civil Works
a   Sector A                    5.42    52   ddd   add    - xrx x     ox    -xox  xxx xxx       -x xxx xxx        xxx     -o   xxx   +++ +++
b.. Sector B                    4.96    49                dd   ddd    ddd   dAd    dd&
Total Coot ( a + b)        10.38   100%
(including costingencies)
Bsseline Cost (a + b)      7.06
(excluding costi,ogencica)
2. Forniture
a. Sector A                      -       -
b. Sector B                    0.26    10                                         000   000    000   000   000    030   000   000    000    00    +++  +.
Total Cost (a + b)         0.26    100%
(including contingencies)
ra-eline Coot (a + b)      0.21
(excluding costingencies)
3. Equipsent
a. Sector A                    1.19    50    OOO  oOC   OOO    OO    000   OOO    003  o0o    000    000   000   000    000   000    +..   +++
b  etr511       5000                                       0           00000       000 000 0'00    000    000   000      +4    +4
c   St- C                                               000    000    0    o                    +++
Total Ccst (a + b + c)     2.37    i00%
(including contingecoieo)
Baseline Coat (a + b + c) 1.86
(excluding contingen-ies)
4. 3ceratio.al Costa
Total Cost of Sector A     1_02    100% ::: ::  : :   :: ::  : ::: ::: :::           ::
(including contingencies)
3aseline -Cot              0.88
(excluding contingencica)
5.Technical Assiltance                          I
a   Setor B                   0.36     41                     T TT2  TTT   TTT   TOT    TTT TTT     TTT    TTT                                                TTT   mTT   TmT   TmT
TmT   TrT    TrT   TTT   TT     TTT   TTT   TTT    TmT   TTT   TTT    TTT
b. Seator                      0.40    59                            Trr   TTT   ITT    TO   T T TT   ITT  TT    TTTTT        TTT   TTT   TTT
Total Cot (a + b)         0.76    100%
6. Project Adm-nistratlon
a. Ce t r A                   0.17     81    -cs ***    coo    *     ***   a**    ***   ***   ***   ***    ***   ***   **     **    **    0-0    ***   ***    ***   *--    **    **
6. Sector 5                   0.04     19                                       i                       ***      ***   **c    ***   ceO   *0-    -c     o     **-   ***   ***   *0*     **     *     **    *
Total Cost (a + b)         0.21    100%
(including costingencie5)
Ba--line Cost (a + b)      0.18
(excluding contingencies)
TOTAL COST (1 - 6)        15.00          0.03  0.07   0.27 0.27  0.55   0.68  0.95  1.09   1.36  1.50  1.50   1.36  1.36  1.36   0.95  0.68  0.55   0.27  0.07  0.05  0.04   0,03  0.0
(ltcludlng .ontinccnies)-
TOTAL BASELISIE COST(1-6) 10.95
(excluding contingennix5)
IDA ALIOCATION            11.0            2    0.05 2.2L   0,20 0.63    0.40    7          1.00  110   1.20   1.10  1.00  1.00   0.70  0.50  0.40   0.0 0.05    0.03   0.02  0.02  0.01
1     2      3     4            i5  6  7    8      9     10    11     12    13    14     15    16    17     18    19    20      21    22    23     24
IEGEYD:   xxo   -  Construction Tenders, Awards and SuperYicios
000     Preparation of Furniture and Equipment Lixts and Procurernet Pe-id
4+ - Gsuarantee Period and Final Settlement
ddd  -  Surrey. Deoigs and Preparation xf W-rking Dra-ingo
TTT  -  Teclnical Axoixtance
-  Project Adniniotration                                                                                                                                            Noveber 1975
Operational



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT      -
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Accumulated          Undisbursed
Quarters 11         Disbursements         Disbursements          Balance
1                                                              11.00
2                      -11.00
3                     0.12                  0.12               10.88
4                     0.32                  0.44               10.56
5                     0.34                  0.78               10.22
6                     0.52                  1.30                9.70
7                     0.60                  1.90                9.10
8                     0.89                  2.79                8.21
9                     0.96                  3.75                7.25
10                     1.06                  4.81                6.19
11                     1.15                  5.96                5.04
12                     1.19                  7.15                3.85
13                     1.11                  8.26                2.74
14                     0.91                  9.17                1.83
15                     0.88                 10.05                0.95
16                     0.36                 10.41                0.59
17                     0.22                 10.63                0.37
18                     0.12                 10.75                0.25
19                     0.10                 10.85                0.15
20                     0.05                 10.90                0.10
21                     0.04                 10.94                0.06
22                     0.04                 10.98                0.02
23                     0.02                 11.00                 -
24                      -                   11.00                 -
25                      -                   11.00                 -
26                                          11.00                 -
/1 From date of credit effectiveness.
November 1975



UNIT8DL PUBLIC OF TANZANIA                                                                    ANNEX 13
FII ' EDUCATION PROJECT
COMPOSIT1ON OF PRMjECT UNIT'S STIFF AND OPERATIONAL COST
Apr 1, 1975     Apr 1, 1976      Ad r 1, 1977    Apr 1, 1978      Apr 1, 1979     Apr 1, 1980             Total Cost in 0001s
to             to        [     to               to              to               to
Mar 31,1976      Mar 31,1977   1/iar 31,1978     Mar 31,1979      Nar 31,1980     Mar 31,1981          in T Sh              in U0$
FOREIGN STAFF
DANIDA
Chief Architect/Deputy                                                t
Project Coordinator                         1                1    t          I                I               1
Architects                                     2               2                1               -                -
Assistant Architects                                           3               2                -                -
Engineers                                     3                3               3               2                2
Draght..en                                     1               3               2                -                -                                 P:,idbythe       a..
Draugtsme  I              3    i           2                                -               -Provided by th                     sDnish International
Furniture Designer                             -               I               -                -                -               -                 Development Agency (DANIDA)
Desigs Administrator                           -               1               1                -                -
Quantity Surveyor                              -               I               1                1                1
Building Supervisors                          3                3               3                3               3
NORAD
Architect                                     I                I               --                                -               -                 Provided by the Norwegian International
ingineer                                      1                1l              -               -                                                   Development A ency (NORAD)
Supervisot                                    3                3    -          2    1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Architect                                      -               12              1 -              -                -               1-               966.0               120.0
Educater                                       -               1 -'p           1   /            -                -                                644.0                80.0
Quantity Surveyor                              --                                               -                -               1                322.0                40.0
Building gperv-                                                                                 -               -                                 322.0                40.0
Educator         6Su-                                                                           -                -               -                 544.0               80.0
Sult.tal                   -29.0360.0
LOCAL STAFF
Project Co-ordliator                           1               1               1                1               1                1
Draughtsmen                                    2               2               2                2               2                2
Administrator                                  1               1               1                1               1                1                 Provided by the Govern.ent of
Accountant                                     1               1               1                1               1                1                     Tanzania
Procurement Officer                           1                1               1                1               1                1
Supporting Staff as appropriate
(Clerks/Typis to/Drivers/Hessengers/
Cleaners, etc.)                                -               -               -                -               -
EQUIPMENT
Landrover                                      1               1               1                1               1                1              Owned by P.IU. (for P.I.U.)
Range Rover                                    1               I               1                -               -                -              Owned by NORAD (for P.I.U.)
L3ndrover                                      1               1               1                -                -               -              Owned by NORAD (for Superviuien)
Landrover/Pick-up truck                        3               3               3                3               3                -              Owned by DANIDA (for Supervision)
12 Tons and 3 T-ns :-cuk9           6/         2               2               2                2               2                2              Owned by P.1.U. (fut P.l,U.)
New 4-Wheel Vehrcle/12 .nes Truck             -               2               2                2                2               2                 246.0               30.5
Vehicle (new)                                  -               I               1                1               1                -              Owned by DANIDA (for P.I.U.)
4-Wheel Vehicle (new)                          2               2               2                -               -                -              Owned by NORAD (for supervision)
One Electric typewriter with
long carriage                                                                                                                            )        28,0                 3.5
One c' plicator                                                                                                                           )
One photocopy machine
Three air conditioner
Sub-Total                                                                                                                       274.0               34.0
OPERATIONAL COSTS
Petroi/|I-s.rance/Maintenance , etc.
(for 5 yearn)
Office Supply (for 5 years)
Sub-total                                                                                                                      298.0                37.0
TOTAL COST OF IMPLEMENTATION                                            1                                                                       3,470     7           431.0
Note:    I/     Not yet known if NORAD will emtend contracts.
Z/     Survey all existing Secondary Schools and prepare sketch layout of each,
3/     Survey all existing Secondary Schools and helping in preparing equipment lists for Tanzania V.
4/     To provide for continuation of the above aid by DANIDA.
3/     One general educator specialized in primary education for two years.
/     4-wheel vehicle to be used for surveying all existing secondary schools and supervision of institutions;
12 Tons Truck to be used for transportation of furniture and e..lnment to the project schools.
7/     The total cost estimate does not include contingencies.
November 1975



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA: STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION, 1974
AGRICULTURE                AGRICULTURE
TRAININR, INSTITUTE        TRAINING INSTITUTE
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
Certificate Courss  TWO YEARS  Diploma Courses
FIELD EXPERIENCE
SECONDARY SCHOOLS             TECHNICAL COLLEGE           TECHNICAL COLLEGE
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Certificate Courses  TVVO YEARS  Diploma Cou,,rse
VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS                        INDUSTRIAL
1  2  ~4   EXPERIENCE
PIAY                                   SECONDARY                     NUNIVERSITY
GENERAL EDUCATION
N4ARTS, SC-IENCE, SOCIAL SCIENCES,                 (MEDICAL
MEDICINE, AGRICULTURE, ETC.  INTERNSHIP)
ASSISTANT
RURAL MEDICAL AIDES              MEDICAL ASS~ISTANTS                               MEDICAL OFFICERS
5, YEARS'7XPERIENCE
LABORATORY TECHNICIANS                            LABORATORY TECHNICIANS
1 NURSE  MIDWIFE__                                  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _  _
AUXI LIARIES                                                                   a   ,-E]
HEALTH EDUCATION'                                                                                       NURSES, GRADE B                                NURSES', GRADE A
TEACHER TRAINING                                                     PRIMARY TEACHEfRS                PRIMARY TEACHERS     LOWER SECONDARY
Gd.CGrade A                                 TEACHERS
Throgh Upgreding            Thog   pgra din g
P.L.E. - Primary Leaving ExuminationH
NF4 - National School Certificate
NF6 - National Higher School Certificate                                                 World Bank-70120R
*The Government announced in 1974 that Form 6 outputs would not obtain direct entry into
University, but would enter employment for an unspecified period before being considered for
undergraduate studies.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PYRAMID, 1974
(PUBLIC SCHOOLS)
% fAeGopBOYS                                                                                   -.GIRLS                                                                   % of Age Group
Enrolled                                                                                                                                                                                  Enrolled
.6     UNIVERSITY YEAR                                        1                                       98                                                                                   1
13  SECONDARY    613                                                                                   6
FORMS      6152                                                                                  20-2
123                  6                                                                              1616  272                                                                              .3
4.5                  4                                                                            585       001.8
4.2                  3                                                                            592.696
3.9                  2                                                                            595       171.5
3.5                  1                                                                            68 96    2369                                                                           1.5
41.1     PRIMARY      7                                         043916                                                                                                                    24.4
STDO
42.0                  6                                  89450361                                                                                                                         26.1
46.0                  5                                                                                                                   620  9123                                       29.7
50 0                 4                           02368978                                                                                                                                 34.4
54.4                  3                   103                                                                                                        79013                                38.
0  2120792266                                                                                                                                      44,0
66.1                  1   139605                                                                                                                                    108022                50.0
140  130   120  110  100   90   80    70   60   50    40   30    20   1 0   1    1 0  20   30    40   50   60    /0   80   90   100   110  120  130  140
ENROLLMENT NUMBERS
IN THOUSANDS
World Bank--1 6055           o"
H.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION -1975
F   ADVISORY A  S
COMMITTEE TO F  SIP NSTER
UHE MINNSTER
|   RNIPAL l
A    SECR TARY  l
AUDIFOR
SNATIONAL EDUCATION
!OFCE SERVICES ||                          PLANNING               AFFAUITRlS                                DEVELOPMENTl
PRIMARY                             ADULT                                                                  TRAINY      PE ACHER
EDUi;ATlO                            IIION             EDUCATION                  DVSO\EU                                    TO
ANDFICEK    SECTORAL    STAHISCHOO AND          TENICIA AND                                       LEVELN       COLLEGEALE AND
SEMCON                   S          SECTION    POOR Dl NI ON                                                                  ADM IN ISTRATI AIS
SETON       SCTO       SEVAUTION     SCINECTION                    SE   CINSEECTION                         SCTO         ECTION    SECTION     SECTION
*This chart shows reporting relationships enly -and neot necessarily relative stales
NAWorldLEaDUCATIOE



IBRD 11763R1
U GA N D A        --       -L A K E--                                  FIFT          TANZANIA      DECEMBER 1975
/ .I COhA~                       F"'"            KEEYA           FIFTH    EDUCATION      PROJECT
B.loba            a      rir o e-
SEE ATTACHED LIST  A1-3 R  Villoge Manaqement Training Program
RWFNDA                                                              1 Sma  p\ INSTITUTIONS . B 1-15,J Aidecr Secondary Schools
|,C-,  National Board of Accountants
LAKE  '-'                 -'  Railways   Main Roads
\/TJ.ar   Nyomirem  '     ur   '                     NATRON                -i-  -  TAN-ZAM Railway
s,h ?, c haui.                                                             Region Boundaries
OeIia           ugru         ldwa                          Disirict Boundaries
a ya                                     !--    International Boundaries
|  uR  D                                                  3<YWiug  ,      AFRICAt
K /              iKbondo                                               A,
s~adn B9  (,l                                                         Pangasi        4
ypond\ g,w                 a A-2                   gamoyo
h.                                                                2 B.14
nSumbawnga               J                                                          a
I                lvban     Mkaoungoloal       Saa Hi ll      Mahefge
B9       -12                                                          Klwa Mashae
-   kuyu NraambLupembe
Tundum       -     Njmbe
-;- Z.A MBi31A       .                Ita sKgin Part   -iw;                                Mh   o
os WU dindB-6
j ; , Raanda                               Ma}dndoas,
o     o         no i0 '   aoo      -.       o2onga                                        l3
-R ELSEA                                                                                A AM
i'II         s                   /              Mbamba Bayy-
*-;;>0 Ze'"              aab         \MMALMAW I tiP--       -3O\,      .   s        M OZ AM13I Q U E  4s
I F                                                    I rin                                       I  - '



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Key to Map
Project Items
Location
Code         Name of Institutions                 Town               Region
A.       Village Management Technician
Training Program
A-1    VMT Training Headquarters               Dar-es-Salaam       Coast
A-2    Five Rural Training Centers(RTCs): 1.   Shinyanga           Shinyanga
2-  Nzega                Tabora
3.  mbulu               Arusha
4.  Iringa               Iringa
5.  Kisarawe            Coast
A-3    Village ManaRement Technicians          Located at Wards - not shown
(VMT) Units                              on map.
B.       Secondary Schools
B-1    Arusha Secondary School                 Arusha              Arusha
B-2    Azania Secondary School                 Dar-es-Salaam       Coast
B-3    Jangwani Secondary School               Dar-es-Salaam       Coast
B-4    Tosamaganga Secondary School            Iringa              Iringa
B-5    Mawenzi Secondary School               Moshi                Kilimanjaro
B-6    Lindi Secondary School                  Lindi               Lindi
B-7    Morogoro Secondary School              Morogoro             Morogoro
B-8    Mwanza Secondary School                Mwanza               Mwanza
B-9    Kazima Secondary School                 Tabora              Tabora
B-10   Usagara Secondary School                Tanga               Tanga
B-li   Mbeya Secondary School                 Nbeya                Mbeya
B-12   Loleza Secondary School                Mbeya                Mbeya
B-13   Ndanda Secondary School                 Ndanda              Mtwara
B-14   Ilboru Secondary School                 Arusha              Arusha
B-15   Umbwe Secondary School                  Umbwe               Kilimanjaro
C.       National Board of Accountants and Auditors
C-1    NBAA's Headquarters                     Dar-es-Salaam       Coast



