CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 607 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Education Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 29, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CRIT NUMBER 607 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Education Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 29, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 1976, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)   the term  "Project Unit" means the unit established within the
Borrower's Ministry of National Education pursuant to Section 4.01(d) of the
Development Credit Agreement (Second Education Project) dated May 29, 1969,
between the Borrower and the Association, with such powers, responsibilities,
functions and staff as is provided in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement (Fourth Education Project) dated April 13, 1973, between the Borrower
and the Association, and as further provided in this Agreement; and
(b)   the term  "Project Executive" means the unit established under the
Office of the Prime Minister of the Borrower to carry out the functions described
in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such later date
as shall be established by the Association in consultation with the Borrower. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of IQ/) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from    time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amoULnt of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, commencing
April 15, 1986, and ending October 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1j) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom    of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with Cue diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, educational, fr.incial
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿5
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through
the Project Executive, and Part B of the Project through the Project Unit.
(b)   The Borrower shall continuously monitor, through       the Project
Executive, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the work of the Village
Management Technicians trained thereunder with a view to improve the program
and to plan subsequent training programs for the same purpose; shall furnish to
the Association, every six months during the execution of the Project, a semi-annual
report on its evaluation of the program included in Part A; and shall exchange
views thereon with the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, until completion of Part B of the Project,
employ in the Project Unit at least the staff indicated in Schedule 4 hereto.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ the specialists referred to in Schedule 5 hereto;
such specialists to have such qualifications and experience as the Borrower shall
determine after consultation with the Association, and such terms and conditions
of employment as shall be mutually agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall assign an appropriate number of its
adequately qualified and experienced national staff to work with, and as counterpart
of, the non-Tanzanian experts working at the Project Executive and at the Project
Unit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, to the extent possible, take all measures
necessary to provide adequate housing to the experts whose servicc, are required
for the diligent and efficient execution of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The 3orrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed oLt of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation. the plans, specifications. reports, contract documIents and


﻿6
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall submit to the Association for approval, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans and specifications relating to the construction
of the educational facilities included in the Project.
(c)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress and cost of the Project and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.0 1. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each entity and institution included
in the Project to carry out its operations and manage its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, technical and educational policies and
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other sources required for the purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture and
equipment of the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary renewals and repairs thereof to be made


﻿7
and (ii) establish appropriate administrative and financial procedures for the
purpose of such maintenance.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date April 30, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.08(c), 4.01,
4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01 The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P. 0. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam


﻿8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s / Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Elxpenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Civil works, and                 5,300,000            75'/
materials for VMT
houses
(2)   Furniture.                       2,000,000
vehicles and
equipment
(a)   imported                                        I000 of foreign
expenditures
(b)   imported but                                    85'
procuIred
locally
(c)   locally                                         100'/ of ex-factory
manufactured                                    cost
(3)   Project adminis-                   550,000            50
tration and opera-
tional costs of
Parts A and B of
the Project*
*     Includes: limited subsistence and travelling expenses for trainees while
attending courses, stationary and office requirements, petrol and spare parts
for vehicles.


﻿10
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)   Consultants'                      750,000           100% of foreign
services                                            expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures
(5)   Unallocated                     2,400,000
TOTAL         11,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign cxpenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments fcr taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures incurred after
October 1, 1975, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $120,000,
for furnishing and equipping the Rural Training Centers, and for operational and
office requirements of the Project Executive.


﻿11
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement. no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association Lnder the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:     A program to train about 1,500 cooperative inspectors and connIunity
development workers to become Village Management Technicians, and
the provision of essential facilities at local level so as to enable them
to operate effectively in the villages. Part A includes equipping,
furnishing, and provision of vehicles for, about five Rural Training
Centers; provision   of  about   2,000  pedal-cycles, materials for
book keeping and local purposes, construction of about 1,500 modest
houses, and provision of about 500 motorcycles for supervisory staff
at District headquarters.
Part B.     Expansion of the capacity of about 15 secondary schools, from an
aggregate of about 6,900 students to about 9,000 students, to achieve
increased teaching of science and practical subjects. Part B includes
construction, equipping and furnishing of the facilities.
Part C.     (i)         A survey of existing training facilities for accountants and
auditors; the formulation of a national training plan
therefor; and the definition of professional standards to
be applied by them.
(ii)        A survey of educational facilities in all secondary schools
and an assessment of their utilization.
(iii)       A primary education subsector review.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    International C6mpetitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods, works and services shall be
procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    To the extent practicable, the requirements of materials, furniture, vehicles
and equipment shall be grouped in lots of a size large enough to attract bidders
in international bidding. The Borrower shall decide each case after consulting the
Association through the Project Unit.
B.    Other Procurement Procedures
(i)         Contracts for materials, furniture, vehicles and/or equipment
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $120,000 shall
be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's ordinary
procedures for open competitive bidding.
(ii)        The material for the houses and bicycles included in Part A of
the Project shall be procured through ordinary commercial
channels.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties e,nd other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish


﻿14
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Tanzania if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Tanzania equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Tanzania.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from  group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids fbr Civil Works; Prefrences fbr Domestic
Con tractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (I)
of the table set forth in Schedule I to the Credit Agreement, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿15
(a)   Contractors shall be required to submit together with their bids such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference, and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2"
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
E.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of S200,000 or more, and to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of S120,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform    the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿16
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determinati. i.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
deternination.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 4
Minimum Full-time Staff of the
Project Unit
No.
Project Coordinator                                            1
Chief Architect/Deputy Project Coordinator                     1
Accountant                                                     1
Architects                                                     2
Assistant Architects                                           3
Engineers                                                      3
Draughtsmen                                                    5
Furniture Designer                                             I
Procurement Officer                                            I
Quantity Surveyor                                              1
Design Administrator                                           I
Building Supervisors                                           3
Administrators                                                 2
Supporting Staff as appropriate (Clerks, Typists, Drivers, Messengers, Cleaners, etc.)


﻿18
SCHEDULE 5
Technical Assistance
1.    Part C(i) of the Project
(a)   Two specialists in curriculum design for acCountants and managenent
training, cach for three years. Their terms of reference will incIude (i) surveying
all curricula and syllabi of existing accountancy training in Tanzania; (ii)
formulation of a plan to harmonize and standardize such curriCUla and syllabi,
in view of the standards that are required for Tanzania; and (iii) formulation of
standards of knowiedige and experience for accountants and bookkeepers to be
registered at various professional grades.
(b)   One specialist in development of instructional materials, for one year.
(c)   One specialist in training management, for one year. His or her terms
of reference will include (i) surveying existing physical facilities, (ii) assessing current
teaching and administrative staffs, and (iii) formulating a plan to expand the
facilities so as to be able to meet estimated manpower needs.
2.    Parf C(ii) of the Project
One general educator and one architect specialized in educational facilities,
each for two years.
3.    Part (iii) of the Project
One general educator specialized in primary education, for two years.


