Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13848-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
URBAN TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
JANUARY 3, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =     Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$ 1.00           =     K Sh 55.00 (As of October 1995)
K Sh 1.00          =     US$0.02
K Sh 20.00         =     K£ 1.0
Government Fiscal Year         July 1 - June 30
Weights and Measures           Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CSC                =     Construction Supervision Consultants
ESAF               =     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ERR                =     Economic Rate of Return
GDP                =     Gross Domestic Product
GOK                =     Government of Kenya
GPT                =     Graduated Personal Tax
IDA                =     International Development Association
IMF                =     International Monetary Fund
ITSC               =     Inter-ministerial Technical Steering Committee
KA                 =     Ke,.ya Airways
KPA                =     Kenya Ports Authority
KPC                =     Kenya Pipeline Company
KR                 =     Kenya Railways Corporation
LGLA               =     Local Government Loans Authority
MLG                =     Ministry of Local Government
MMS                =     Maintenance Management/Works Inspectorate
MPR                =     Maintenance Performance Rating
MPWH               =     Ministry of Public Works and Housing
MRP                =     Municipal Reform Program
NCC                =     Nairobi City Council
NMT                =     Non-Motorized Transport
PIP                =     Project Implementation Plan
PFP                =     Policy Framework Paper
RARP               =     Rural Access Roads Program
RMLF               =     Road Maintenance Levy Fund
RMI                =     Roads Maintenance Initiative
SOE                =     Statement of Expenditures
SSATP              =     Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Programme
TMU                =     Transport Management Unit
UJDD               =     Urban Development Department
UTC                =     Urban Transport Component



URBAN TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                                                                      i
l.  BACKGROUND.................................................................................................................................1
A. Macroeconomic Setting ..............................................I
B.  Recent Economic Developments ...1.......................................... 
C.  Urban Sector Overview                  ..............................................2
D.  Institutional Framework ..............................................3
E.  Municipal Finances ..............................................3
F.  Municipal Reform  Program  ..............................................4
G.  Bank Group's Country and Sector Assistance Strategy .............................................5
II. TRANSPORT SECTOR .....................................                                                                      7
A.  Transport and the Economy ..............................................7
B.  Transport Sector Issues ..............................................8
C.  Road Transport System ..............................................8
D.  Financing Road Maintenance  ..............................................9
E.  Road Maintenance Levy Fund ............................................. 10
III. THE URBAN TRANSPORT SUBSECTOR ......................................                                                      1 
A.  Sector Overview                            ..1........................................... I 
B.  Key Sector Issues ............................................. .11
C.  Sector Development Constraints .............................................. 12
D.  Priority Action Program  .............................................                                                 13
E.  Implementation Experience and Lessons Learned ......................                           ....................... 13
F.  Rationale for IDA  Involvement   .............................................                                         14
IV. THE PROJECT .....................................                                                                         15
A.  Project Origin .............................................. 15
B.  Project Objectives ..............................................                                                      15
C. Project Preparation .............................................. 16
D.  Project Description ..............................................                                                     16
E.  Project Costs and Financing .............................................. 18
F.  Procurement                    ............................................. 20
G. Disbursements ..................                                                                                        21
H. Accounts and Audits ...................                                                                                 21



V.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  .....................................................                                                                                  23
A.   Project Implementation  Plan    ................................................................. 23
B.   Project Phases and  Design  Status .................................................................                                                        23
C.   Eligibility  Requirements for Project Towns .................................................................                                                23
D.  Subsidiary Agreement ............................................................... 24
E.   Project Management                                                                                  ................................................. 24
F.  Maintenance Management and Works Inspectorate Function ........................................... 25
G.   Construction  Program   and  Contracting                                                            ................................................. 25
H.  Other Capacity Building Inputs .................................................                                                                             26
I.  Future Project Preparation Support .................................................                                                                         27
J.  Financial Arrangements .................................................                                                                                     27
K.   Local Authority  Participation  .................................................                                                                           27
L.  Progress Reporting, Annual and Mid-term  Review .................................................                                                             28
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .....................................................                                                                                     29
A.   Benefits and  Beneficiaries .................................................................                                                               29
B.   Economic  Analysis .................................................................                                                                        29
C.   Impact on  the  Poor .................................................................                                                                      30
D.  Road Safety ................................................................. 31
E.   Environmental Impact .................................................................                                                                      31
F.   Project Risks and  Sustainability .................................................................                                                         31
VII. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION ............. 33
A.    Agreements reached                                                      ................................................................. 33
B.    Conditions of Credit Effectiveness .................................................................                                                       34
C.   Recommendation .................................................................                                                                            35
Tables in text
Table 1.1.                Expenditures on the Classified Road Network
Table IV. 1.    Estimated Project Costs
Table IV.2.    Financing Plan
Table IV.3.    Summary of Procurement Arrangements
Table IV.4.    Disbursement Categories
Annexes
Annex I                   Letter of Sectoral Policy
Annex 2                   List of Project Towns
Annex 3                   Project Description
Annex 4                   SSATP Initiatives and Non-Motorized Transport
Annex 5                   Project Components and Expenditures by Year
Annex 6                   Project Components by Financiers
Annex 7                   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 8                   Implementation Chart of Key First Phase Project Activities
Annex 9                   Table of Contents for Project Implementation Plan
Annex 10                  Selection and Design Status of Major Civil Works Components
Annex 11                  Project Implementation and Reporting Structure



Annex 12          Implementation Responsibility Matrix for Civil Works
Annex 13          Supervision Plan and Staff Input
Annex 14          Key Performance Indicators
Annex 15          Economic Analysis for First Phase Investments
Annex 16          Environmental Mitigation Plan
MaD:              IBRD Map No. 26340
This report is based on the findings of Bank appraisal and post-appraisal missions in July 1993 and July 1994,
respectively. The mission members included: Mr. Gautam Sengupta (Task Manager), Mr. Christopher Hoban
(Highway Engineer), Mr. Alan Armstrong-Wright (Consultant Transport Economist), Mr. Mike Riley (Consultant
Maintenance Management Specialist), Mrs. Rowena Martinez (Operations Analyst), and Mr. Muthoka Mutungi
(Information Technology Specialist). Peer reviewer for the project was Mr. John Flora. Mr. William Matthey
(Consultant Transportation Engineer) assisted in the preparation of the documents. Secretarial support and report
production was done by Mrs. Victoria Fofanah. Mr. Stephen J. Weissman and Mr. James W. Adams are the Managing
Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.
Following the post-appraisal mission in July 1994, a Kenyan delegation led by Mr. Richard arap Siele (Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Local government (MLG)), and accompanied by Mr. K. Ruchiami (Deputy Secretary,
Development and Finance, MLG), Mr. L. Ngare (Project Manager, TMU), Mr. N. Nyariki (Project Engineer, TMU),
Mr. S. Kamau (Project Engineer, TMU) and Mr. S. Laban (Assistant Secretary, Ministry of Finance), visited the Bank
headquarters in October 1994 to jointly work with the Bank staff in preparing relevant sections of this appraisal report
and other project related documents. This appraisal report reflects the common position of both the Bank staff and the
Kenyan counterpart officials associated with the project.






KENYA
URBAN TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Republic of Kenya
Implementing Agency:      Ministry of Local Government (MLG)
Beneficiary:              26 local authorities
Amount:                   SDR 77.1 million (US$115.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:           0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign      Total
IDA:         53.0         62.0         115.0
Government   40.0           -           40.0
TOTAL:       93.0         62.0         155.0
Economic Rate of Return:    Overall ERR of 41% for first phase investments in periodic
maintenance, rehabilitation and capacity improvements
(representing 48% of total civil works under the Project).
The second phase investments in periodic maintenance,
rehabilitation and capacity improvements will be agreed at the mid-
term review, subject to prior performance; and would require a
minimum 12% ERR to qualify. The routine maintenance
component yields a benefit cost ratio of about 9.9.
Poverty Category:         Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   13848-KE
Map:                      IBRD Map No. 26340
Project ID                KE-PA-1319






I.  BACKGROUND
A.    Macroeconomic Setting
1.01    The Kenyan economy began to deteriorate in 1991, after a period of relatively high growth
(averaging 5.0% p.a.) from 1985 through 1990. Growth of GDP (at factor cost) was 4.2 % in 1990, 2.1%
in 1991, 0.5 % in 1992, and is estimated to have declined further to about 0.2% in 1993. The downward
trend is attributable to both extemal and domestic factors. External factors included the worldwide
recession, the Gulf War and three successive years of poor rainfall. Domestic economic factors, causing a
marked fall in fixed capital formation and capital investment efficiency after 1989, also contributed
towards the very low GDP growth during 1991 through 1993. During this period, there was a sharp
decline in public investment in essential infrastructure (down from 9.8% of central government
expenditures in FY81-FY85 to 5.7% in FY91-FY92, with an even greater decline in road investments).
Poor economic management also lead to freezing of donor balance of payments support late in 1991. In
1992 and early 1993, a major expansion of the money supply had a significant inflationary impact on the
economy.
1.02    Under a program monitored by the IMF and IDA, the Government of Kenya (GOK) took action
between April and October 1993 to reassert financial sector discipline, tighten monetary policy and
eliminate import controls. These measures strengthened donor confidence in Kenya's reform efforts. To
arrest and reverse the economic decline, GOK launched an economic recovery program in late 1993,
embodied in a new Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1994-96. This program was supported by a one-
year (October 1993 - September 1994) enhanced structural adjustment facility program (ESAF). The
ESAF arrangement coincided with the resumption of bilateral and multilateral support for Kenya in 1993
and marked a turnaround of confidence in the country's economic reform efforts by the international
community. While the ESAF covered only a one-year period, it was cast in the context of a medium-term
strategy aimed at restoring and sustaining economic growth. The GOK's strategy sought (i) macro-
economic stabilization through tough fiscal and monetary policies; (ii) substantial reduction in the role of
the public sector; (iii) strengthened the financial system; (iv) promotion of exports and elimination of anti-
export biases; (v) domestic deregulation, including decontrol of prices and liberalization of the agricultural
sector; and (vi) improvement of the private investment environment. Specific focus was put on reducing
inflation quickly and strengthening the balance of payments position during this first phase of the reform
program.
B.    Recent Economic Developments
1.03    Major progress was achieved in restoring macro-economic stability during the period October
1993 - September 1994. Inflation declined from 54.7% at end 1993 to an estimated 6.6% at end 1994.
The balance of payments was considerably stronger than expected. Progress was also achieved in the
GOK's civil service reform efforts, strengthening of the financial system, and substantial liberalization of
the economy across all sectors. However, efforts towards parastatal reforms fell below expectations.
Economic growth remained stagnant during the first half of 1994, mainly reflecting prolonged drought
conditions and high domestic interest rates. Recent years have seen an improvement; the fiscal deficit
(excluding grants) declined from 8% of GDP in FY94 to 2.5% in FY95. Real growth accelerated to 3% in
1994 and is projected to be 5% in 1995.
1.04    Continued progress on the full range of economic reform measures and sustaining the new policy
initiatives are critical to Kenya's future growth and stability. With population growing at 3.0% p.a. and the
labor force growing at 4.1% p.a., Kenya needs growth rates of at least 7% - 8% p.a. to keep its already
high unemployment rate (23% urban) from rising further. Achieving these growth rates will require not
only steady adherence to the defined reform program, but also increased investments in key constraining



- 2 -
areas, such as rural and urban infrastructure. In addition to make those investments efficient, the role of
the government at all levels will need to be reoriented towards creating a more enabling environment for
enhancing economic activities and growth.
C.    Urban Sector Overview
1.05   While the 1989 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey indicates that population growth rates may
have peaked and entered a period of decline, Kenya still has a high natural population growth rate and one
of the highest rates of urbanization in the world. In the decade 1979-89, the urban population grew by over
5.1% p.a., compared to the total population growth of 2.7% p.a. The growth rate of Nairobi, Kenya's
largest city (1.4 million in 1989), was 5.0% p.a., and was exceeded only by Nakuru (at 5.8% p.a.), one of
the country's five largest urban centers. Smaller towns on average grew considerably faster. Nairobi was
home to nearly 45% of the urban population in 1989, up slightly from 1979. Based on recent trends, the
urban share of the total population will rise from 19% in 1989 to 21% in 2000. It is expected that during
the next decade over half of the urban population increase will come from rural-urban migration.
1.06   Urban areas in Kenya function as trading centers for agriculture and their economic importance
goes beyond being centers of population and industry. Financial services are concentrated there, as are the
centers of trade, transport and communication services, manufacturing, construction, and government.
About 21% of formal employment, and 65% of informal sector employment is in the urban areas. Nairobi
alone accounts for 28% of wage employment in the country. Kenya's development challenge remains one
of employment creation and poverty reduction. Between now and the year 2000 nearly 500,000 people will
enter the labor force each year (reflecting a projected labor force growth rate of about 4% per year - over
6% per year in the urban areas). Most of the employment seekers will be in the urban areas. Over 30% of
Kenya's urban population today is below the poverty line; the proportion being higher in the larger towns
such as Nairobi and Mombasa. To support the needed economic growth to reduce unemployment and
increase  incomes will require both structural reforms and investments in basic infrastructure.
Administrative, financial and technical capacity of the local authorities who have the mandate to provide
and maintain these basic infrastructure will also need to be strengthened for sustainability of these
investments.
1.07   The high rate of urban growth continues to put tremendous strain on basic social infrastructure,
local authority finances and administrative capacity.  The government recognizes that improved
infrastructure is critical to attract and disperse private domestic and foreign investment to support Kenya's
economic growth. However, weak local administrative, financial and operational capacity are adversely
affecting the quality of service and maintenance of all basic municipal infrastructure. Some segments of
the economy, particularly the industrial sector and the higher income population, have found alternate ways
to compensate for the decline in service standards through such means as private water wells, private
generators for electricity, etc. However, the urban poor, who must rely on the government for the provision
of basic municipal services, are being particularly hard hit by this decline in service delivery standards,
with no alternative means to access such services.
1.08   GOK is aware of this problem and is currently undertaking a broad based and long term program
of local government reforms. The government's rural-urban balance strategy provides a blue print for
simultaneously stimulating growth of urban centers and their agricultural hinterland that is consistent with
the country's macro-economic objectives. However, given the rate of population growth, the government
clearly recognizes that efforts must be intensified to meet the objectives of this policy. Accordingly, the
government is undertaking a major initiative to strengthen local authorities by up-grading management
capabilities, consolidating and enhancing revenue base and rationalizing expenditures of the local
authorities.



D.    Institutional Framework
1.09    Kenya has 140 local authorities, ranging from major municipal councils, including Nairobi City
Council (NCC), town councils (which differ mainly in size rather than status), county councils and urban
councils (the latter partly subordinate to the former). All are corporate bodies with their own assets, staff,
budgets, etc., constituted under the 1963 Local Government Act (Cap 265). Their numbers have grown
rapidly since independence, particularly in the 1980s, reflecting a policy of dispersed urbanization
enunciated in 1986. This expansion has exacerbated the shortage of qualified personnel (especially in
financial management and engineering) in local authorities and in Ministry of Local Government. Many
local authorities today have financial bases which are grossly inadequate for adequately maintaining the
assets and covering their administrative overheads.
1.10    Urban local authorities (not county councils) have relatively wide responsibilities.  All are
responsible for land use planning and development control; all maintain roads and are responsible for street
lighting and cleaning, refuse collection, fire protection, environmental health, markets, bus parks, slaughter
houses, parks and recreation. Nearly all provide public rental housing, and other low-cost housing
schemes. Seven municipal councils Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Eldoret, Kitale and Thika are
also education and health authorities. Several local authorities also operate water supply and/or sewerage
systems. County councils, responsible for rural local authorities, by contrast, have few responsibilities and
vary widely in their roles and revenue bases. Larger local authorities operate many services with their own
staff and equipment, while the staff and operating resources of the smaller ones are supplemented by
central government equipment and/or technical supervision.
1.11    MLG has overall jurisdiction over the functioning of all the local authorities in Kenya. Local
authorities are required to operate as autonomous institutions under the Local Government Act. They are
expected to make by-laws, prepare budgets, procure goods and services, provide infrastructure services and
manage local resources. The MLG, under certain circumstances, is required by law to make direct
decisions on local authority activities when there are deviations from the established rules. For instance, if
a local authority wishes to award a tender to any other bidder other than the lowest, the council is required
to seek a ministerial approval. Local authority budgets are also approved by the MLG to ascertain that
councils operate with a balanced budget. This and other approvals are, however, often seen by many local
authorities as a way of restricting the councils' rights from operating as autonomous institutions. Local
authorities are also responsible for personnel management but are assisted by the government through the
Public Service Commission in the recruitment of senior personnel.  This recruitment process was
transferred to the government to harmonize recruitment procedures and to make sure that the right caliber
of personnel are appointed for senior management jobs. All these procedures were thought to be the best at
the time, however, they are not without problems. There is a growing recognition at all levels of
government that the current local authority system in Kenya is in need of considerable overhaul in keeping
economic and social needs and constraints.
E.    Municipal Finances
1.12    Local authorities in Kenya were financially sound in the 1960's and early 1970's when they used
to collect a Graduated Personal Tax (GPT) and there was little demand for basic urban services.
Population in urban centers was low and councils needed little manpower resources to implement basic
infrastructure programs. During the mid-1970's, the government decided that some services could be
potentially provided by the central government more efficiently and consequently these services (e.g., water
supply) were transferred from the local authorities to the central agencies. Between 1969 and 1973 the
government also gradually abolished the GPT. In the 1980's, there was rapid urbanization exerting
pressure on the existing urban services. The local authorities were unable to expand or maintain existing
urban services due to lack of adequate financial, manpower and administrative capacity. This resulted in



declining local revenue generation causing a draw down of the reserves which were accumulated in the
1960's, increasing deficits in the General Rate Fund Revenue Accounts, and mounting arrears in payments
by the local authorities to the other parts of the public sector. In recognition to the dire financial situation,
the government in 1987 introduced a produce cess for Rural County Councils and in 1989 a Services
Charge was put in place. Despite these new taxes, the increased revenues have not improved the financial
position of the local authorities sufficiently to allow them to effectively deliver and maintain basic services.
The situation is further compounded by the heavy backlog of provision of services to meet the increasing
demands of a growing population base.
F.    Municipal Reform Program
1.13   In recent years, the local authority system (its finances and operations) in Kenya has deteriorated to
such an extent that fundamental structural changes are necessary to provide the necessary environment for
sustainable municipal infrastructure development. Such reforms must underlie any municipal investment,
such as proposed under the project. In recognition of this pre-requisite, in 1990, the Bank, in collaboration
with the government, undertook a comprehensive review of Kenya's local government system, particularly
its finances. The findings of this review are contained in the report "Kenya: Local Government Finance
Study", (Report No. 8997-KE, April 23, 1992). The primary objective of this study was to identify a
reform program necessary to bring the local authorities of Kenya out of their current financial and
operational distress so that, over time, they would be better able to plan, finance, deliver and maintain basic
urban services, such as road infrastructure. Based on the findings and recommendations of this study, the
government is pursuing a program of local government reform as part of its broader efforts towards
decentralization, public sector reform and privatization. A major initiative is now underway (financed
under a Japanese PHRD Grant Fund) to define and implement a Municipal Reform Program (MRP) to
strengthen local authorities by improving their finances, strengthening their management capabilities and
enhancing their technical capabilities for better infrastructure maintenance. The key elements of this
initiative include: reforming the current Local Government Act with a view of harmonizing the operations
of local authorities; improving local resource mobilization; reforming of the present Local Government
Loans Authority (LGLA); improving financial, technical and personnel management practices; and
improving local authority accounting and budgetary systems. The ultimate objective of the MRP would be
to build adequate capacity and to create financing mechanisms whereby local authorities would be in a
position to finance their local infrastructure needs without continuing dependence on the central
government. The MRP was launched by the government in 1993, with the establishment of a Task Force
charged with defining a detailed work program. The Task Force is comprised of specific teams and sub-
committees (consisting of officers from relevant GOK ministries and local authority officials) for
undertaking specific elements of the overall MRP. The Japanese PHRD Grant Fund, noted above, began to
support the actual implementation of this action program from about mid-1994 through financing of
specialized technical assistance inputs. With these inputs, key elements of the reform program are
currently being developed and they will be fully defined and designed during FY96/97. In the meantime,
some of the high priority actions -- improving accounting, budgeting, resource mobilization and expenditure
management practices -- are currently being implemented with a Japanese PHRD grant assistance under a
pilot program in a selected number of local authorities. These initiatives are already beginning to yield
positive results by way of realistic budgeting practices, improved revenue yields and better expenditure
management in a number of local authorities. Subject to the government's adoption of the full range of
policy, institutional and financial reforms for the sector as a whole, processing of an IDA financed
Municipal Reform Project to support this process could proceed during FY98.
1.14    GOK has submitted a Letter of Sectoral Policy, attached at ANNEX 1, describing its municipal
reform agenda and the relevance of the proposed project to the MRP. There are six broad areas of
municipal reform which are considered necessary in order for any municipal infrastructure investment,
including those under the proposed project, to be sustainable. Improvements and changes have either been



- 5 -
already formulated or are in the process of being implemented in a pilot mode in a selected number of local
authorities. While all of the areas noted below of equally important, they are not of equal urgency.
Improvements are being introduced, in a phased manner, in the overall local authority system in the
following specific areas, in order of their implementation priority:
*      recurrent revenue generation and expenditure management
*      operations and maintenance capacity
*      financial management, accounting and budgeting systems
*      staff training and skills development
*      intergovernmental fiscal arrangements
*      financing mechanisms for municipal infrastructure
1.15   The MRP would address critical financial and operational bottlenecks, such as declining local
revenue generation, mutual indebtedness of local authorities and the government (including its Parastatal
enterprises), and the lack of a sustainable local authority investment financing mechanism. It would also
address issues of local authority budgeting, expenditure, accounting and audit systems; personnel
development and management; land administration and future role and structure of the MLG in relation to
the local authorities. Many of the objects of the reform program are difficult and their solution is expected
to require considerable time (extending beyond the implementation of the proposed project). It will require
a sustained effort by the government, as articulated in the Letter of Sectoral Policy. Success of efforts
under the MRP will determine the development impact and sustainability of all investments in the urban
sector.
G.    Bank Group's Country and Sector Assistance Strategy
1.16   Country Assistance Strategy: Kenya's main development challenge remains poverty reduction
through accelerated economic growth and employment creation. Kenya's strategy to reduce poverty seeks
to combine policies that encourage sustainable labor intensive growth with public expenditure programs
that will increasingly focus on the provision of basic social service, with particular emphasis on reaching
the poor. The GOK's Development Plan for 1994-96 and the Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1994 underscore the
theme of Sustainable Development. The Bank Group shares this vision and this is also the focus of its
Country Assistance Strategy for Kenya, which is being distributed separately for discussion by the Board.
The strategy has four major objectives: (a) encourage the government to provide and sustain a stable
macro economic environment, (b) support changes in the incentive framework and improve infrastructure
to promote accelerated and efficient economic growth based on export-oriented private sector investments;
(c) significantly increase the efficiency of the public sector, including parastatals; and, (d) address longer-
term human resource development issues and arrest the deterioration of Kenya's fragile environment.
1.17   Urban Sector Reform: Reforming Kenya's local authority system is a necessary ingredient for
achieving the above strategy, given the economic importance of the cities and towns as centers of
agricultural trade, transport and communication services, manufacturing, construction and government,
including national and local government services. The draft Letter of Sectoral Policy recognizes that
fundamental structural and systemic changes are necessary in the current local authority system for
financing and operating the public services required for continued economic growth and for their
sustainability. Many local authorities have consistently been running deficits and are heavily in debt that
they are unable to repay. Access to capital is increasingly limited, investments in maintenance of
infrastructure are inadequate, and many services are provided at substandard quality levels. As local
authorities are part of an integrated system of national and local institutions that should be working
together in pursuit of common objectives, the inability of councils to meet their share of development
responsibilities undernines efforts towards national economic growth. In particular, the heavy dependence
of local authorities on the national government to finance infrastructure investment is not sustainable, given



the present state of the economy and concurrent pressure for central fiscal reform. As the national fiscal
constraints that prevent the central ministries from dealing with the growing infrastructure shortfall become
increasingly binding, the ability of local authorities to manage capital investments and service operations
more responsibly becomes increasingly critical for the continued success of the Kenyan economy. The
proposed project would constitute a first step to support the government's plan to carry out the needed
reforms through the MRP (para. 1.13).
1.18    Road Sector Development:  One of the key infrastructures which is in urgent need of
improvement is Kenya's road network. It is evident that an efficient road transport system is essential for
promoting private sector development, particularly the export-oriented industries which are concentrated
around the urban centers. It is also a key infrastructure which directly affects the poor in their daily living
and wage earning efforts. The Bank Group's assistance to Kenya's road sector started before its
independence. Since 1960, the Bank Group has financed 12 road projects, including two sector projects.
These operations have focused largely on extending the major highway network and on constructing and
improving the rural road system. The Bank Group has not so far been involved in any project specifically
targeted at the urban road network.
1.19   Inadequate maintenance over many years and gradual erosion of public sector capacity to
effectively plan, finance and manage basic road infrastructure has significantly reduced the quality of
services in a number of subsectors. Various infrastructure systems, such as water and sewerage, solid
waste management, housing, hospitals, schools and recreational areas, etc., have deteriorated. However,
the extent of the problem is most visible in the road transport network where immediate and substantial
rehabilitation is required to maintain and enhance the economic efficiency of the system. Maintenance of
the urban road network is a key local authority function and the financial cost of adequately discharging
this responsibility by the local authorities is considerable. Routine and periodic road maintenance account
for over 60% of a local authority's recurrent budget.
1.20   Economic and financial costs of delaying effective intervention would be considerable. Although
the central government continues to bear most of the financial burden for maintaining the urban road
network, this should be primarily the responsibility of the local authorities. Consequently, a concurrent set
of municipal reforms aimed at improving financial and operational performance of the local authorities is
essential in order to provide a sustainable environment and the necessary revenue base such that the local
authorities can assume increasing road maintenance responsibility over time. While several broad urban
transport issues (such as more effective demand management, public transport policy reforms and strategic
transport planning in the large cities as Nairobi and Mombasa) need to be addressed over time, these issues,
although important, are not as urgent as the need to improve road maintenance capacity of the local
authorities.  Instilling maintenance discipline among the local authorities is critical to any sector
development effort.



II.    TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.    Transport and the Economy
2.01    Kenya has five major transport systems - roads, railways, maritime transport, pipeline transport
and air transport networks. The heaviest concentration of transport facilities is along the transport corridor
from the port of Mombasa through the capital, Nairobi, continuing on to the western region and to the
Kenya/Uganda border. The railway network is about 1,920 km, including 1,085 km of main lines, 345 km
of principal line and 490 km of branch lines. The main line connects the Mombasa port to Nairobi and
continues to the Uganda border. The total road network is about 160,000 km long, including about 63,000
km of classified roads under the Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MPWH) and about 91,000 km of
local authority roads under the MLG and various local authorities. The balance of the road network
represents special purpose roads, such as in the national wildlife parks. Primary responsibility for the
transport system is vested in four autonomous parastatal entities: the Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), Kenya
Railways Corporation (KR), Kenya Airways (KA) and Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC); as well as with
MPWH for the national highway system and the classified roads, and with MLG for local authorities' road
system. Government regulation of the transport sector is minimal and market forces are generally the basis
for traffic allocation. Road transport dominates the overall transport sector and almost entirely belongs in
the private sector (the pipeline's monopoly of movement of petroleum products is the major exception).
The road transport industry is competitive and relatively efficient. Bus and mini-bus (matatu) transport
diominate the fare paying passenger transport market and, like truck transport, nearly all public transport is
private (the exception is the government's Nyayo Bus Service Corporation which came into operation in
1989).
2.02    The transport sector has changed considerably in Kenya since its independence in 1963; most
notably with the development of the road network and the decline in the role and importance of rail
transport. A major program of road investments (many of them supported by IDA) expanded the network
of paved roads from about 1,800 km in 1963 to about 8,600 km in 1994. Introduction of heavy
commercial vehicles also substantially reduced road transport costs.  During the 1980's, declining
efficiency and effective capacity of the railway resulted in falling traffic levels from 4.3 million tonnes in
1980 to 2.5 million tonnes in 1993. Railway's share of total freight transport income halved from 62% in
1972 to 33% in 1990. The decline in railway capacity is increasing the importance of the road transport
network. However, inadequate road network and the poor condition of the roads are fast becoming serious
constraints to mobility and are adding to transportation costs. Efficient movement of agricultural produce
and perishable commodities has become a major problem in many areas of the country, particularly during
the rainy season. The manufacturing sub-sector is also being equally disadvantaged. Road transport
currently is the prime mode for freight and passenger transport, and its importance will increase with time
in Kenya. An efficient and well functioning road transport system will continue to remain an important
cost effective alternative to rail, for both domestic transport needs and to provide the interface with
international shipping for transit traffic for the neighboring countries.
2.03    The overall contribution of the transport, storage and communication sub-sector, to the GDP has
been estimated at about 8% in recent years. The Kenyan transport system is not only essential to its
domestic economy but is also very significant as a primary transit network for the neighboring countries in
the eastern Africa region. Transit traffic generates foreign exchange earnings of about US$70 million
annually for Kenya. Transport was not a major constraint to Kenya's economic growth until about the
mid-1980's and Kenya enjoyed a higher standard of transport infrastructure and lower transport costs than
most countries in the region. However, the transport system is now beginning to be perceived as a serious
impediment to economic growth. The prospects for expanding Kenya's traditional exports are limited. The
GOK's current economic reform program recognizes that future growth must be led by export oriented non-



- 8 -
traditional commodities, particularly manufactures. The quality of Kenya's land transport system is
inadequate to support such future growth and the diversification of production and exports.
B.    Transport Sector Issues
2.04    Kenya's overall transport system is currently facing severe difficulties.  General transport
conditions are deteriorating in terms of quality and service delivery standards. Unless this situation is
urgently arrested and the trend reversed, the transport system will increasingly become a major constraint
to economic and social development in Kenya. Today's key problems in Kenya's transport sector have their
roots in several factors: (a) deteriorating infrastructure conditions due to lack of maintenance, despite
considerable capital investments in recent years; (b) weak management and institutional capacity of the
key transport sectors agencies and parastatals; and, (c) inefficient operational systems, procedures and
complex regulatory framework, such as customs procedures, making the transport system particularly
vulnerable in the external trade-transport subsector.
C.    Road Transport System
2.05     Roads and road transport are crucial parts of Kenya's economic infrastructure. Trucks account
for nearly 100% of short distance haulage. Today the primary mode of freight transport and personal
travel is dominated by truck, car and bus. The road network is one of the largest investments that has been
made in Kenya since independence. The urban road network is about 10,000 km, of which about 2,000 km
are paved. About 62% of all urban roads are in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu (36% in Nairobi alone).
While most investments have so far been directed to the main road network, there has also been a
considerable investments directed at expanding the coverage of the classified rural network through the
special crop-oriented programs (tea, sugar and wheat roads) and the Rural Access Roads Programme
(RARP). The RARP was started in the early 1970's and over 8,000 km of all-weather rural access roads,
using labor-intensive construction methods, have been constructed so far. The roads under the RARP are
now maintained under the Minor Roads Programme - a multi-donor supported prograrnme. There are now
over 11,000 km of rural roads which have been improved and are now maintained under the Minor Roads
Programme. Through the RARP and Minor Road Programme, Kenya is now an acknowledged world
leader in labor based road construction and maintenance techniques.
Table II.1: Expenditure on the Classified Road Network (K Sh million)
FY 88/89    FY89/90   FY90/91   FY91/92   FY92/93
Estimate
Recurrent
Wages/overheads        334        312        324       346        416
Maintenance            134        150        184       216        244
Others 1/              130        216        282       328        326
Total                  598        678        790       890       986
(Constant prices)     (598)      (597)      (600)    (570)      (503)
Development
GOK                   1062        988        892       708       1042
Donors                 876        778        994       978       1596
Total                 1938       1766       1886      1686       2638
(Constant prices)    (1938)    (1554)      (1433)    (1079)    (1345)
Total                 2536       2444       2676      2576       3624
(Constant prices)    (2536)    (2151)      (2033)   (1649)    (1848)
1/ Revenues from toll collections are used for recurrent expenditures. Source: GOK



- 9 -
2.06    The major problem in Kenya's road sector today is not a lack of network capacity, but the poor
quality of the roads. Kenya is one of the countries included in the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy
(SSATP) programme's Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI). A major RMI seminar was held in Kenya in
1992 which identified, inter alia, the immediate problem of inadequate road maintenance in Kenya.
Rapidly deteriorating roads are increasingly becoming inefficient to support growing economic activities.
Expenditures in the road sector have so far been primarily targeted towards the main road network
(highway system and inter-urban roads) through MPWH and towards the rural roads network through the
RARP and the Minor Roads Programme. However, these expenditures have so far reflected preference for
new construction over routine and periodic maintenance. Table II. 1 (above) shows recent expenditure on
the classified road network in Kenya.
2.07    While investments have been made for the classified network over the past decades, the intra-
urban network (i.e., roads within the towns and urban centers) have been neglected in terms of new
investments as well as maintenance financing. In 1968, the road network was found to be deteriorating,
partly because of vehicle overloading, but mainly because road maintenance by the local authorities was
inadequate. To improve the situation, central government assumed responsibility for the maintenance for
the entire classified road network. Road maintenance improved considerably until 1975 when it began to
decline because of insufficient funds for recurrent expenditure.  Periodic maintenance (resealing and
regravelling), as well as routine maintenance, were cut back substantially.  Although reliable data
indicating the level and composition of expenditures for intra-urban roads is not readily available, it is
generally acknowledged that such expenditures (for both new investments and maintenance) have been
minimal. Neglect over many years has resulted in much of the network deteriorating to the point where
rehabilitation is necessary before maintenance is possible.
2.08    According to the Project Completion Reports of prior road projects, these projects experienced
implementation delays, cost overruns and their economic retums were generally below the appraisal
estimates. However, these projects were, on the whole, completed satisfactorily and met their two principal
development objectives: (a) reduced vehicle operating costs; and (b) improved rural accessibility. From
the implementation of these projects it has become increasingly apparent that much greater emphasis has to
be given to the issue of long-term sustainability in the sector. The issues of adequate maintenance caoacity
and increased domestic funding for maintenance have become central to the long-term sustainability of all
road sector investments. Achieving sustainability will require substantial assistance to remove the backlog
of periodic maintenance, starting an urgently needed rehabilitation work program and strengthening
capacity of sector institutions.
D.    Financing Road Maintenance
2.09    Because the economic costs of poor road infrastructure are not so apparent as, for example,
inadequate electric power or water supply, road maintenance and improvements have generally received a
lower priority in budgetary allocations than warranted by their true economic value. As roads fall from a
maintainable condition to one requiring rehabilitation or reconstruction, the cost rises dramatically. It is
estimated that a cost of K Sh I to maintain a stretch of paved road rises to K Sh 13 to rehabilitate and K
Sh 36 to reconstruct it. For unpaved roads, the corresponding ratio is about 1:8 to 1: 10.
2.10    At the national level, the overall expenditure on roads (development plus maintenance) fell
steadily during the 1980s dropping from 5.5% of total expenditures in FY84 to 2.7% in FY87. Likewise,
the share of road maintenance in total road expenditures also fell from 31% in FY84 to 19% in FY87.
Seen over a longer time period, the share of the central government's recurrent budget allocated to road
maintenance fell from 3.2% in 1976 to 0.5% in 1992, and the share for urban roads, transferred by the
government to municipalities, declined to almost negligible amounts. Although central government



- 10-
revenues from road transport - fuel taxes, vehicle import duties, licenses - have risen substantially as a
share of total revenues in recent years, such increases have not been directed for maintenance to kept pace
with both the current and deferred needs. GOK is currently attempting to bring down a large budget
deficit, and is in a difficult position to substantially increase road maintenance funding from its present
revenues. The result is that without a new source of revenue, road maintenance would continue to be
under-funded and much of the road network, including nearly all urban roads, would drop into the more
costly rehabilitation and reconstruction categories. Nor would there be any scope for increasing the
capacity of the road network through new investments to meet rising traffic demands.
E.    Road Maintenance Levy Fund
2.11    Against this difficult setting, GOK has taken a very positive step which holds out the promise of
a sustainable solution to the national and urban road maintenance problems. In late 1993, and amended in
May 1994, it enacted a Road Maintenance Levy Fund (RMLF). The RMLF will derive most of its revenue
from a levy on the sales of petroleum fuels and, to a lesser extent, from the toll charges levied on vehicles
transiting through Kenya. Once the RMLF is operating, the system of domestic road tolls, which currently
generates some of the funds for the periodic maintenance of the main paved road network, will be removed.
The initial level of the levy is expected to yield approximately K Sh 1,500 million during FY95. Even with
this promising start, the initial K Sh 1,500 million in RMLF resources in FY95 is not likely to be adequate
for meeting the minimum maintenance requirements of the country's road network. In the absence of
reliable technical data, overall funding requirement for maintenance can not be estimated at present with
any degree of accuracy. However, a realistic (within budget and technical constraints) minimum
maintenance program is roughly estimated at K Sh 2,600 million in 1994/95 prices, of which about K Sh
600 million would be needed for urban road maintenance during FY95. Over the long term, in 1994/95
prices, as much as K Sh 8,000 million could be used annually by the year 2000 for reasonable level of
maintenance of the road network (of which about K Sh 1,500 million - K Sh 2,000 million could be used
for the public roads under the MLG). These are best estimates currently determinable which will require
fiurther analysis and refinement.
2.12    The government recognizes that the immediate yield of the RMLF alone is not going to be
adequate to make a credible start at addressing the issue of deferred road maintenance. It is currently
reviewing various options to increase the initial funding base for road maintenance financing. GOK has
indicated that given the significance of this issue, despite current tight budgetary situation, it will start
supplementing the RMLF resources for road maintenance through budgetary allocations. Even with this, it
is likely that overall maintenance funding will be at levels below the full funding requirement to start with.
Therefore, GOK has agreed to gradually increase maintenance funding levels to match the growth in
maintenance capacity of the agencies concerned with the road sector as a whole. Through both budgetary
allocation and annual adjustment of the level of the RMLF levy, GOK expects to gradually increase the
overall resources for maintenance, such that, over a period of 5-6 years, sufficient funds would be available
to maintain all roads in Kenya. The eventual size of the RMLF, supplemented by budgetary allocations,
required for full maintenance funding of the system, will need to be further refined and updated as more
reliable data on actual experience is accumulated. The operational modalities for the RMLF also need to
be fully developed.
2.13   The government, in its Macro-economic and Structural Policy Framework document for 1995-97,
submitted to the Consultative Group Meeting in December 1994, undertook to raise domestic funding for
road maintenance to 50% of full maintenance needs in FY96 and to full funding by the year 2000. The
government has agreed with IDA a detailed annual maintenance funding plan for the overall road network,
including the urban road network, consistent with this undertaking.



- 11 -
III.   THE URBAN TRANSPORT SUBSECTOR
A.    Sector Overview
3.01    Urban transport in Kenya was recognized as an emerging issue late in the 1970s, but over the
past twenty years the sector has not received serious attention. Traffic growth has outstripped the
government's capacity to provide adequate road infrastructure and the backlog and deterioration of the
roads are visually evident. In the major towns, such as Nairobi and Mombasa, there is no adequate system
of by-passes to avoid inter city traffic from passing through the cities. Congestion has become a problem,
particularly affecting Nairobi and other urban centers. The proportion of roads rated in good condition in
Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu fell from 24% to 10% during 1988 to 1993. In the major towns, road
condition problems are compounded by the density of traffic during peak periods. Travel time in peak
hours in Nairobi is estimate to be twice that of non-peak hours. These poor road conditions and congestion
impose serious economic costs in terms of lost productive time, wasted fuel, increased vehicle maintenance
and repair costs, higher traffic casualties, and environmental pollution. For Nairobi alone, it is estimated
that at least 14 million vehicle-hours were lost due to congestion in 1992. Without road improvements that
figure is estimated to rise to 50 million vehicle-hours by 2002. This translates to an estimated waste of 63
million liters of fuel worth US$25 million (ex-taxes and duties) per year by 2002. Additionally, the annual
costs of vehicle repairs and depreciation necessitated by poor urban road conditions in Nairobi is estimated,
using MPWH coefficients, at about US$22 million by 2002. The current problems have also been
compounded by ineffective urban transport management policies, poor physical planning, growing spatial
constraints and inadequate traffic demand management.
3.02    The type of urban transport that people use in their daily business is determined by the
availability and affordability of different modes. In Kenya's urban areas, these factors make walking the
dominant mode, even when only the most important trips, usually the work trips, are considered. If all trips
were considered, including those to-and-from public transport, the percentage of walking trips would be
considerably higher. In Mombasa, the share of important trips made on foot is relatively high (61%)
compared to Nairobi (24%-44%, depending on the survey); other towns more closely resemble Mombasa
than Nairobi in this respect. Bicycle traffic, similarly, is higher in Mombasa (7%) than in Nairobi (4%),
and higher in the smaller towns where it is safer. By contrast, cars are a more important mode in Nairobi
(22%-38%, depending on the survey) than in Mombasa (18%). Public transport accounted for 14% of
trips in both cities in the early 1970s, but grew to a reported 50% share in Nairobi in the 1980s. Buses and
matatus (smaller privately owned vehicles for public passenger transport) share the market approximately
equally. Ferry service is an important mode in Mombasa.
3.03    Various government agencies (police, town councils and ministries) are responsible for enforcing
traffic regulation, vehicle inspections and, most importantly, financing, maintaining and extending major
transport infrastructure. MLG and the local authorities have the primary responsibility for maintaining
local roads. MPWH is responsible for all trunk roads running into or through urban areas. The Transport
Management Unit (TMU) of the Urban Development Department of MLG has the primary responsibility
for providing technical support to local authorities in transport planning and management, and the Roads
Department of MPWH provides some of the local authorities with technical assistance in works and loans
them minor equipment.
B.    Key Sector Issues
3.04   At the GOK's request, the Bank prepared a Sector Study during 1989-90 entitled "Kenya: Urban
Transport Development Issues", (Report No. 7881-KE, May 9, 1990) which proposed a program of policy
and institutional reforms and investments for Nairobi and other large towns. The Study identified several
issues which needed to be resolved to improve Kenya's urban transport infrastructure system. The key



- 12 -
among them were:  (a) adopting an investment policy framework to ensure allocative efficiency; (b)
strengthening the planning, management and operational capacity of sector agencies; (c) improving road
safety; (d) enlarging the revenue base of local authorities; (e) developing a metropolitan growth strategy
which relieves development pressures in Nairobi; (f) establishing and enforcing appropriate demand
management policies and programs; (g) increasing the efficiency of public transport operations; and, (h)
defining the role of the government in public transportation. While all of the above issues are significant to
urban transport problems in Kenya, urgent emphasis needs to be placed on improving basic maintenance
and strengthening maintenance management capacity in the sub-sector.
C.    Sector Development Constraints
3.05     Inadequate financial resources for maintenance has been a critical problem in urban transport
sub-sector. The problems of urban road quality and congestion cannot be solved without much greater
financial resources to meet the backlog of investments as well as to increase their sustainability with higher
maintenance expenditures. Almost all urban road financing is intended to come from local authority
revenues, which at present are insufficient to maintain their roads even if all were in maintainable
condition. In recent years, total road expenditures have been less than 60% of what was needed (based on
technical coefficients) for maintenance alone, leaving little or none for rehabilitation or new investments to
keep pace with rising traffic demand. The solution to the financial problem is a necessary but not sufficient
condition for achieving a sustainable solution to a rapidly developing urban transport crisis.
3.06     Weak technical and institutional capacity at the local authority level has also been a significant
cause of deteriorating road conditions. One of the most important of these is the lack of capacity of local
authority engineering staff. In the absence of necessary quality and experience of the engineering staff, the
quality of the physical works have suffered. Virtually all maintenance work has been traditionally reserved
for execution by the local authorities' work forces. Furthermore, meager local authority budgets leave little
money for operating expenses after salaries are paid. Planning capacity is poor in most local authorities,
and expansion plans for road networks seldom exist or, if they do exist, are not based on efficiency criteria.
Managerial training is weak. Under financially constrained conditions, managers can not make effective
use of existing staff for tasks which require additional cash outlays, so staff are idle much of the time.
Even when resources are made available to patch potholes or seal cracks, maintenance laborers are
normally fielded without proper supervision or technical training, and often do the job incorrectly, leading
to failure and costly repeat of the repairs. Maintenance of equipment takes a very low priority, and costly
new equipment is often purchased when relatively simple repairs would return existing equipment to
service. There is no incentive system in place to either encourage or reward good maintenance performance
by local authorities and their staff.
3.07     Increasing maintenance management capacity and changing maintenance arrangements
require urgent attention. There is a clear need to move away from urban road maintenance by force
account of the local authorities towards contracting out such services. Doing urban road maintenance by
contract could yield substantially more value for each maintenance shilling compared to the costs of force
account work. The private sector capacity exists in Kenya for such a shift. Most periodic maintenance
on the classified paved road network (inter-city) is currently performed by contract and substantial on-
the-job training of contractors has been provided in regravelling roads.  Thus through previous
investments made by Kenya in constructing and rehabilitating the major highway network, considerable
local contracting and engineering capacity in this field has been developed. Efforts are also underway
to involve smaller contractors in undertaking routine maintenance.



- 13 -
D.    Priority Action Program
3.08    In the context of these issues, the Sector Study identified an action program. In the short-term,
there is a need to: (a) undertake a program of road maintenance and rehabilitation, with emphasis on
building maintenance capacity; (b) improve traffic management; (c) build missing links in the road
network; (d) expand the capacity of congested main traffic arteries; (e) improve travel conditions for public
transport vehicles; (f) improve parking control and revenues; (g) improve travel conditions for pedestrians;
and (h) reduce road accidents. A major part of this effort should focus on: (a) the central areas where
traffic congestion is most acute; (b) better accessibility for low income/high population density areas; and
(c) the industrial areas which suffer from poor accessibility. In some of the major towns there is also a
need to undertake extension work of the road network.
E.    Implementation Experience and Lessons Learned
3.09    The Bank's involvement in the urban sector started with the Nairobi Sites and Services Project
(Cr. 543-KE and Ln. 1105-KE) in 1975, followed by the Second Urban Project (Cr. 791-KE and Ln.
1550-KE) in 1978. In 1983, in parallel with the implementation of the Second Urban project, the
Secondary Towns Project (Cr. 1390-KE and Ln. 2319-KE) was initiated and completed in 1991. The
lessons leamed from the Secondary Towns Project, as well as prior projects in the sector, are documented
in the "Performance Audit Report: Kenya: Secondary Towns Project", (Report No. 13127, June 9, 1994.)
3.10   Previous experience with urban projects, as well as with road sector projects, and their
implementation record in Kenya hold a number of useful lessons.
*  Project design must reflect the intent, interests and priorities of the beneficiaries and the
stakeholders to ensure ownership of the project.
  There must be an emphasis on capacity building of project agencies. Experience in Kenya
and elsewhere confirn that sustained project impact depends less on the physical works
financed and more on well-managed, well-financed executing agencies.
*  The respective roles, responsibilities and benefits to all parties involved in the project need to
be clearly articulated and agreed upon before implementation begins. Effective participation
by the beneficiaries and the stakeholders of the project throughout the project cycle (planning,
design and implementation) is essential for sustained development impact.
*  Explicit provision for adequate (and assured) domestic funding for maintenance must be
made for project-financed infrastructure to ensure sustainability after project completion.
*  In general, any first effort in a sector, or a subsector, needs to be supported by a sustained
sector dialogue aimed at defining and implementing the necessary institutional and financial
reforms to achieve goals and policies. Follow-up operations, appropriately timed, are required
to cement gains and extend policy and institutional gains which may be left incomplete by the
predecessor project.
3.11   These lessons are particularly relevant for the proposed Urban Transport Infrastructure Project.
The proposed project is the first of its kind in Kenya, aimed at improving the conditions and maintenance
environment of the urban roads nationally (in 1979, the Bank had appraised an Urban Transport Project for
Nairobi but, in 1981, with agreement of the government, dropped the project due to domestic budget
constraints). Because the proposed project covers up to 26 relatively weak and geographically dispersed



- 14 -
local authorities, project preparation efforts and project design reflect deliberate and sustained dialogue
between IDA, GOK, MLG, and both the executives and the public representatives of the local authorities.
This dialogue has been carried out through a series of workshops and on-site consultations between the
technicians, the executives and elected public representatives. This has helped to create a strong sense of
ownership of the project in both the national government and in the local authorities. An inter-ministerial
technical committee, which also includes representatives of the local authorities, meets regularly to review
project preparation and resolve problems. This consultative and decision making mechanism will continue
during implementation. In addition, based on prior experience, the project will emphasize upstream
implementation of reporting, auditing and accountability measures to ensure early detection and remedy of
implementation problems. The central theme of the project, as discussed later, is improved maintenance.
Although the proposed project mainly focuses on the improvement of the urban road network, these
investments have been considered in the context of a broader set of long-term municipal financial and
administrative reforms. To support these initiatives and to extend the principles of better maintenance
discipline, the proposed project also includes support for preparing a future municipal investment program,
covering other basic infrastructure services.
F.    Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.12    The proposed project is fully consistent with GOK's development objectives as well as the Bank
Group's country and sector assistance strategy. Improving the urban road network would support the
government's objective of directing public expenditures towards improving a basic service for the poor, as
well as other road users, thus also benefiting the economy through improving infrastructure to promote
growth of private sector activities and encourage private investment. It would also support the Bank
Group's objective of participating in sustainable investments because of the project's emphasis on improved
physical maintenance and on building maintenance capacity of sector agencies. It would complement the
broader agenda of municipal reforms, which itself will require over a decade to achieve, but are considered
essential to ensure sustainability of all municipal infrastructure investments, including investments in the
urban road network.
3.13    The project would constitute the first phase of a much larger potential GOK program of urban
road improvements, which could extend for a decade or more and cost over US$300 million, including
maintenance costs. It would promote and encourage a broader government initiative to fundamentally
reform the policy and operational framework for road infrastructure maintenance throughout Kenya and
support the institutional strengthening efforts which this would require. The project would also complement
the Bank Group on-going support for the classified road network and rural roads in Kenya.
3.14    GOK is fully committed to the comprehensive long-term program but lacks the domestic
technical and financial capacity to implement it. The large scale of the required investments in the urban
transport sub-sector requires considerable external financing besides significant domestic resources.
However, due to the number and complexity of the sector issues involved, no other donor has yet shown
serious interest in this sub-sector. IDA involvement at this stage is the best option for initiating major and
lasting improvements.



- 15 -
IV.   THE PROJECT
A.    Project Origin
4.01    Based on the identified sector development issues and the recommended program of actions,
MLG began developing a sub-sector investment program in 1991. The project represents a portion of the
government's overall urban transport improvement program for 26 towns (four large towns - Nairobi,
Mombasa, Kisumu, Eldoret and 22 other smaller rapidly growing towns). Through project preparation
activities, MLG has identified a physical investment program of about US$260 million over the next 6
years for routine and periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and improvements in the 26 towns. The project
covers about 47% (US$123 million) of the physical investments included in this program as a first phase
of the development effort.
4.02    While intervention on many fronts are required in the subsector, the project has been designed to
explicitly address road maintenance and rehabilitation as a priority. Improving maintenance performance
and addressing the financial and institutional problems surrounding it, are the most critical actions
necessary to start solving today's urban transport problems. Improving maintenance performance is a
necessary prerequisite to any sector development effort. The government recognizes that other reform
issues, such as more effective demand management policies, better enforcement of traffic regulations,
increasing efficiency and improving management of public transport entities, etc., while important, are not
as urgent as improving maintenance capacity and instilling maintenance discipline in the local authorities.
The project, however, lays the groundwork to address these broader sector issues over time, recognizing
that they are difficult to implement in the short term.
B.    Project Objectives
4.03    The objectives of the project are to: (i) increase economic efficiency of the urban road network;
and (ii) build sustainable road maintenance capacity - institutional, financial and engineering - of the
project towns and the MLG through a program of municipal reforms. The project represents a substantial
investment by the government in Kenya's urban centers for the benefit of the national economy. The
project would serve to: (i) establish adequate maintenance capacity and encourage basic maintenance
discipline in all the local authorities and assist the MLG to efficiently plan, manage and finance the
maintenance of urban roads; (ii) improve the conditions of the urban roads which are deteriorating rapidly,
through a balanced investment program of routine and periodic maintenance, rehabilitation, improvements
and improved traffic management measures in the project towns; (iii) direct investments towards those
segments of the urban road network in the project towns which are used largely by the poor and improve
the latter's access to non-motorized transport facilities; (iv) introduce measures to increase implementation
efficiency through increased use of existing private sector capacity for both construction and maintenance;
and (v) improve management, financial and operational practices of the project towns aimed at
strengthening their capacity to better finance and maintain road infrastructure.
4.04    While the primary objective of this project is to improve urban transport infrastructure
management and its efficiency, with particular emphasis on maintenance, needs and concems of the urban
poor have been considered through specific project design and selection criteria. The design of road
rehabilitation and improvement works was specifically broadened from traditional approaches to place
emphasis on footpaths and other facilities for non-motorized road users. The criteria for selecting the
location of road works specifically identified needs in the low-income areas of each town, along with those
of industrial areas and city centers. In many cases, improvements were selected to improve travel between
these areas, increasing the access of the urban poor to jobs and city services. This was achieved through
off-road paths or footpath and cycle track improvements even where the road itself was otherwise not
considered for rehabilitation or maintenance. The project supports pilot works of the Non-Motorized



- 16 -
Transport (NMT) Study undertaken by the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Programme (SSATP).
This program looks more deeply at the mobility needs of low-income urban communities, and identifies
small-scale works designed to meet these needs. The traffic management component of the project includes
provision for minor improvements to intersections, pedestrian crossings and bus stops, aimned at safety,
congestion and public transport needs. While this component is not directly targeted at the poor, many of
its benefits will accrue to pedestrians and bus passengers--most of whom are the poor.
C.    Project Preparation
4.05    The project has been prepared by the TMU, financed by a Project Preparation Facility (Nos.
635-0, 635-1 and 635-2) in the amount of US$2.0 million. The PPF funds have been utilized for: (a)
identifying high priority and high return sub-projects and completing their detailed engineering design; (b) a
study of traffic management improvement requirements in Nairobi; (c) preparing a roads inventory and
other traffic indicators for establishing an initial base for the allocation of the RMLF receipts between the
two major claimants - MLG and MPWH - and from MLG to the local authorities; (d) defining
implementation arrangements, including development of the implementation manual; (e) designing the work
program  for a maintenance management and  works inspectorate; (f) conducting physical routine
maintenance audits in project towns, (g) defining institutional arrangements and termns of reference for the
construction supervision consultants; (h) up-stream financing of technology capacity building and design of
a computerized project management and contract/procurement management system; and, (i) preparing
various terms of references and draft bid documents. In addition, consultant support through a bilateral
grant from the Belgium government of about US$800,000 equivalent also assisted the TMU in detailed
engineering designs of the project investments.
D.    Project Description
4.06    The project covers 26 urban centers in Kenya listed in ANNEX 2. Population in the project
towns range from about 1.4 million in Nairobi, 0.5 million in Mombasa and between 20,000 to 200,000 in
the other project towns. The project consists of the following:
(a)    Road and Transport Infrastructure Investments (US$118.5 million)
(i)    Routine Maintenance
(ii)   Periodic Maintenance
(iii)   Rehabilitation Works
(iv)   Improvements
(v)    SSATP Pilot Investments in non-motorized transport facilities
(vi)   Nairobi Traffic Management Infrastructure
(b)    Capacity Building (US$14.5 million)
(i)    Maintenance and Works Inspectorate
(ii)    Maintenance Planning and Procurement Management
(iii)   Traffic Management and Coordination
(iv)   Training and Staff Development
(v)    Mapping
(c)    Program and Policy Studies (US$0.8 million)
(i)    Nairobi long-term Traffic Management Study
(ii)    Mombasa long-term Investment Study



- 17 -
(d)    Project Implementation Support (US$19.7 million)
(i)    Construction Supervision and Engineering
(ii)   Financial Compliance and Audit Support
(iii)  Infonnation Technology
(iv)   Incremental Operating Costs
(e)    Future Project Preparation Support (US$1.5 million)
4.07    These components are summarized in the following paragraphs; detailed descriptions are
contained in ANNEX 3.
(a)  Road and Transport Infrastructure Investments
Road Transport Infrastructure Investments comprise: routine maintenance of about 2,000
km of streets in the project towns in accordance with programs and performance standards
agreed with the TMU; periodic maintenance of about 400 km of priority paved streets,
mainly pavement resealing and complementary minor repairs; rehabilitation of about 400
km of priority paved streets (to restore them to as-built condition) consisting of major
pavement repairs, resealing and repair of roadside infrastructure; road and traffic
management improvements including construction of strategic missing links, road
widening, pavement strengthening and road junction improvements (including related
equipment), the latter mainly in Nairobi totaling about 75 km. Traffic management
measures, pedestrian paths and other improvements which directly affect the urban poor
not only form an integral part of overall project design, but their implementation will also
support the regional partnership initiative under the SSATP. The latter will include
construction and improvement of NMT infrastructure in an integrated network concept (in
addition to bicycle and footpaths included with road rehabilitation and other works). The
extent, design and implementation arrangements for these NMT facilities and other pilot
investments will be based on the findings and recommendations of the SSATP study for
Kenya, during first phase of project implementation, as described in ANNEX 4.
(b)  Capacity Building
The capacity building program  comprises mainly of short-term  specialist technical
assistance (totaling about 60 man-months over the first three years of the project), to the
TMU and various local authorities, in key aspects of maintenance planning and project
implementation.  A comprehensive maintenance management and budgeting system,
guidelines for technical review of design standards and a rigorous procurement
management systems will be established within the TMU. The component provides for the
establishment (including equipment) and functioning of a maintenance management and
works inspectorate function, to oversee and assist the local authorities to improve their
routine road maintenance performance and to effectively use the maintenance funds
allocated to them. Also included in this component are: (a) development and training for
local authority staff, TMU and MLG staff, with particular focus on strengthening their
planning and implementation capacity; (b) local authority roads network data base
development, condition survey and maintenance budget analysis; and (c) support for
conducting periodic workshops and seminars involving the project towns for the purpose of
exchanging information/experience and for an open review of maintenance and
implementation performance by individual project towns.



- 18 -
(c)  Program and Policy Studies
These are priority studies of the two largest urban areas (Nairobi and Mombasa), to
provide a longer-term basis for future planning of investments.  In addition to the
immediate physical works to improve Nairobi's traffic management conditions, a long-term
land use and transport demand study for Nairobi will be undertaken under the project. A
study to formulate a long-term sector investment strategy and needs for Mombasa, in the
context of its unique drainage problems, will be undertaken. Draft terms of reference for
these studies will be included in the Project Implementation Plan.
(d)  Project Implementation Support
This component primarily consists of consultants' support for the overall implementation
of the works program and to advise/assist the TMU with the procurement process for civil
works contracts and detailed design of future investments. To effectively supervise and
monitor the progress of the project activities, necessary hardware, network and
communication facilities and application software packages will be procured.  To
maximize the benefit of new maintenance planning, procedures and monitoring systems
and to institutionalize this process for all towns under the MLG, including towns not
covered under the project, the Credit will finance the additional costs to the TMU
(incremental operating cost) for such activities.
(e)  Future Project Preparation Support
Future project preparation support, by way of technical assistance to MLG for studies,
design and implementation arrangements for defining a municipal investment program and
necessary institutional and financial reforms.   These activities will support and
complement efforts under the MRP. Such activities will include, inter alia, improving
maintenance and investment planning, resource mobilization and expenditure management
practices for other municipal services. These initiatives would be based on the experience
gained in implementing the proposed project as well as the MRP and the lessons learned
would be applied to other sub-sectors or activities managed by local authorities. Possible
demonstration projects in selected towns would serve as centers for further training and
capacity building of local authorities' staff.
E.    Project Costs and Financing
4.08    Project Costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$155.0 million equivalent.
Project components include: US$118.5 million for road and transport infrastructure investments, US$14.5
million for capacity building, US$0.8 million for program and policy studies, US$19.7 million for project
implementation support, and US$1.5 million for future project preparation support. Of the total cost,
about US$62.0 million or 40% would be in foreign costs and the balance in local costs. The cost estimates
include about US$9.5 million in physical contingencies or about 8% of the total base costs, and US$18.0
million in price contingencies or about 14% of the total base costs. The price contingencies have been
calculated on the basis of estimated international inflation of 2.6% from FY1995/96 onwards for both
foreign and local inflation (based on the project exchange rate of US$1.00 = K Sh 55.00 as of October
1995) expressed in terms of US$. A summary of the cost estimates is provided in Table IV. 1.



- 19 -
Table IV.1. Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Kenya
Urban Transport Infrastructure Project                                                                                                               %         %
Total
Components Project Cost Summary                                                            (KShs '000)                         (USS '000)         Forelgp     Baa
Local       Foreign        Total        Local    Foreign      Total    Exchange  Coas
A. Road and Transport Infrastructure Investments
Routine Maintenance                                                 1,816,003 2            -    1,816,003.2  24,265.6          -   24,265.6            -       19
Penodic Maintenance                                                   460,938.7    478,284.1      939,222.8   6,1591    6,390.9    12,550.0           51       10
Rehabilitation Works                                                  626,307 6   1,461,384.4    2,087,692.0   8,368.8  19,527.1    27,895.9          70       22
Improvements                                                          473,6231   1,105,120 6    1,578,743.8   6,328.6  14,766 7    21,095.3           70       17
SSATP Pilot Investments                                               290,928.0            -      290,928.0   3,887.4          -    3,887.4            -        3
Traffic Management Infrastructure                                      94,934.4    290,162.4      385,096.8   1,268.5   3,877.2      5,145.7          75        4
Subtotal Road and Transport Infrastructure Investments                 3,762,735.0  3,334,951.5    7,097,686.5  50,277.9  44,561.9   94,839.8            47       74
B. CAPACITY BUILDING
Maintenance and Works Inspectorate                                    191,400.0            -      191,4000    2,557.5          -    2,557.5            -        2
Mamtenance Planning and Procurement Management                         11,484.0     57,420.0       68,9040       153.5     767.3       920.7          83        1
TrafficManagementandCoordination                                       26,796.0     88,044.0      114,840.0     358.1    1,176.5      1,534.5         77        I
Trauming and StaffDevelopment                                          87,622.9     33,648.1      121,2710    1,170.8      449.6     1,620.4          28        I
Roads Inventory/Condition Survey                                      482,328.0            -      482,328.0   6,444 9          -    6,444.9            -        5
Subtotal CAPACITY BUILDING                                              799,6309      179,112 1      978,743.0  10,684.7   2,393.3    13,078.0           18       10
C. PROGRAM and POLICY STUDIES
Nairobi Long-Term Traffic Management Study                              7,6560      30,624.0       38,280.0      102.3     409.2       511.5          S0        -
Mombasa Long-Tem Investment Study                                      3,8280      15,3120        19,140.0       51.2     204.6       255.8          80        -
SubtotalPROGRAM and POLICY STUDIES                                        11,4840      45,936.0       57,420.0     153.5      613.8       767.3          S0        1
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                                      1,286,552 5     24,131 7    1,310,684.2  17,191.0      322.4    17,513.5           2       14
E. FUTTURE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                         64,310.4     27,561.6       91,872.0     859.3      368.3     1,227.6          30        1
Tota BASELINECOSTS                                                     5,924,712.8  3,611,692.9    9,536,405.8  79,166.4  48,259.7  127,426.1            38      100
Physical Contingencies                                                238,264.6    478,730.9      716,995.5   3,183.7   6,396.8      9,580.5          67        8
Price Contingencies                                                 3,720,775.8  2,537,201.3    6,257,977.1  10,6187    7,388.3    18,007.0           41       14
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                                                      9,883,753.3  6.627,625.1   16,511,378.4  92,968.8  62,044.9  155,013.7            40      122
4.09           Project Financing. The total project cost of US$155.0 million equivalent would be financed as
shown in Table IV.2. An IDA credit of US$115.0 million would finance about 74% of the total project
costs. The government would contribute about US$40.0 million or about 26% of total project cost,
ncluding about US$4.2 million equivalent in taxes and duties. Annual expenditures under the project is
included in ANNEX 5. Additional investments which have been identified during project preparation
(totaling about US$138.0 million in periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and improvements in all 26 towns)
which are not included in the project are also indicated in ANNEX 5 as a "reserve program". Preliminary
design for these investments have been completed and are available for financing by other interested
donors. Project components by financier is included in ANNEX 6.
Table IV.2. Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Financier                             Local                   Foreign    Total
IDA                                   53.0                    62.0               115.0
Government                            40.0                      0.0                40.0
TOTAL                                 93.0                    62.0                155.0



- 20 -
F.    Procurement
4.10    Table IV.3 summarizes the estimated costs of the project financed works, goods and services by
category. All procurement procedures for IDA financed contracts would be consistent with IDA
requirements. Agreement has been reached with the government to use the Bank's "Standard Bidding
Documents for Smaller Civil Works" (applicable to civil works contracts of under about US$10 million)
for ICB. Goods and consulting services would be procured also using Bank standard documents, with
appropriate modifications to meet project needs. Contracts for works not financed by the project (mostly
routine maintenance works) would use local documents and procedures, satisfactory to the IDA.
4.11    Civil Works. IDA financed civil works contracts (for all other than routine maintenance) would
be carried out under ICB procedures satisfactory to IDA. Eligible domestic contractors bidding for civil
works contracts under ICB would receive a 7.5%  percent preference in bid evaluation.  Routine
maintenance, which is estimated to cost US$27.3 million, is spread over 26 towns and is spaced over time,
with the bulk of the expenditures being financed by GOK resources.
4.12    Goods. Equipment estimated to cost US$2.1 million would be procured through ICB following
the Bank guidelines and using Bank Sample Documents with appropriate modifications.
4.13    Consultant Services and Training. Consultant services estimated at about US$7.2 million
would be carried out by consultants recruited internationally in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants." Consultancy services for simple design works and construction supervision,
estimated to cost about US$17.9 million, would be requested from both qualified local firms and locally
established international firms. Consultancy services totaling about US$1.7 million for future project
preparation, design and pilot works would be requested from both qualified local firms and locally
established international firms. Kenya has an emerging, competitive consultancy service sector and
including them for supervision would be appropriate and cost-effective because of the widely dispersed
nature of the project. Locally established international firms would also be expected to use mainly local
staff for such services. The performance of the supervision consultants would be managed and monitored
by the TMU assisted by a consultant adviser contracted for project implementation support. Local
consultants or locally established international consultants would also provide Maintenance Management
and Works Inspectorate services estimated to cost about US$2.8 million. For overseas training financed
under the project, the qualification of the candidates along with their courses of study, the proposed training
institutions and estimated costs, would be subject to prior review by the IDA.
4.14    Prior Contract Reviews. IDA financed works contracts above a threshold of US$300,000 and
goods contracts above a threshold of US$200,000 would be subject to prior review. All contracts for
consulting firms above US$100,000 and US$50,000 for individuals would also be subject to prior review
by IDA. It is estimated that this will result in more than 85% of the Credit subject to prior review for both
first and second phases of the project. This percentage is considered satisfactory given that local staff have
already been trained in IDA procurement policies and procedures and bidding documents have been
standardized for the project. Post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would be carried
out on about 1 in 4 works contracts.



- 21 -
Table IV.3. Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Description               ICB      LCB    Other         Total
Civil Works                          85.2      8.4    18.91/         112.5
(74.1)                          (74.1)
Goods                                 2.1                              2.1
(2.1)           ___             (2.1)
Consultant Services                                     30.9          30.9
Training_________________________            ______   (29.3)        (29.3)
Training                                                2.6            2.6
(2.6)         (2.6)
Incremental Operating Costs                             4.92/         (4.9)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (4 .9 ) _ _ _ _ _ _
Refunding of PPF                                        2.0            2.0
(2.0)         (2.0)
TOTAL                                87.3      8.4      59.3         155.0
1 (76.2)             (38.8)      (115.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respedive amountsfinanced by IDA
1/ Works to be carried out by local contract orforce account using governmentfunds and procedures.
2/ Travel and operational costs using MLG internal procedures
G.    Disbursements
4.15     Disbursement Categories. The IDA Credit will be disbursed against the following categories as
shown in Table IV.4.  On this basis, the estimated disbursement schedule is given in ANNEX 7.
Assurances were received that to facilitate payments from the Credit, a Special Account will be established
and will be operated and maintained on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The account will have
an initial authorized allocation of US$1.5 million, approximately equal to 4 months of expenditures under
the project. The Credit closing date would be June 30, 2003, with physical completion of works expected
by December 31, 2002.
4.16     Statement Of Expenditures (SOE): Disbursements for contracts of goods and works estimated
to cost less than US$100,000 and consultancies for firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent and less
than US$50,000 equivalent for individuals will be made against statement of expenditures (SOE). Other
disbursements will be made against standard documentation.
H.    Accounts and Audits
4.17     Assurances were received that MLG, through the TMU, will maintain appropriate records and
accounts for expenditures under the project, including any SOEs, as well as the Special Account, in
accordance to internationally acceptable accounting standards; that such records and accounts will be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and that audit reports, including a separate reports on
the SOEs, as well as the Special Account, will be provided to IDA within six months of the end of each
fiscal year.



- 22 -
Table IV.4. Disbursement Categories
(USS million equivalent)
Disbursement Account                  IDA Amount    % of Expenditures
(US$ million)     to be financed
Civil Works                               67.4       100% of foreign
expenditures
60% of local
expenditures
Consultant Services
(a) Maintenance and Works Inspectorate      1.4      80% for expenditures
incurred prior to June
30, 1999, and 20%
thereafter
(b) All others                            25.0               100%
Goods                                       2.1       100% of foreign
expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
Training                                    2.2              100%
Incremental Operating Costs                 4.3              100%
PPF Advance                                2.0            Amount due
Unallocated                                10.6
TOTAL                                     115.0



- 23 -
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Implementation Plan
5.01   In order to clarify the roles and responsibilities of each entity that would participate in
implementation of the project, a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared and agreed with
IDA. ANNEX 8 shows a summary chart of the key project implementation steps. The detailed
implementation plans for the project as a whole and specific components are included in the PIP. The
Table of Contents of the PIP is attached at ANNEX 9. Assurances were received that the project will be
implemented in accordance with the agreed PIP and substantive changes will be first agreed with IDA.
B.    Project Phases and Design Status
5.02    For most towns, the works have been divided into two phases: a first phase (covering the first 3
full years of implementation, FY97-99) and a second phase (covering remaining three years of project
implementation, FYOO-02). ANNEX 10 shows the status of selection and design of all major civil works
components.  Final detailed engineering designs for nearly all periodic rehabilitation and improvement
works included under the first phase have been substantially completed by local consultants, funded by the
PPF. Identification and design of first phase capacity improvement works in Mombasa, Eldoret and
Kisumu (about US$3.5 million equivalent) has been postponed, to be completed during project year I so as
to allow further study of needs in these towns (actual physical works to start in project year 2). Second
phase works in all towns will be agreed during the mid term review and inclusion would be subject to
towns' performance in routine maintenance during the first phase. Sub-projects under the second phase will
need to have an ERR of at least 12% to be considered eligible for IDA financing. Detailed design for the
second phase will be completed during the first phase and will be carried out by consultants, either by
those engaged for construction supervision of first phase works or through the engagement of new
consultants. Particular attention has been paid to keep the design standards appropriate and affordable and
that the investments represent least cost solutions. Detailed design review of all first phase investments was
carried out at appraisal. For second phase investments, design review will be carried out by the TMU, with
special technical assistance.
C.    Eligibility Requirements for Project Towns
5.03    It has been agreed that the project towns must demonstrate adequate routine maintenance
performance, based on an agreed Maintenance Performance Rating system, to be initially eligible for
funding under the Credit. Routine maintenance performance of the project towns is verified by independent
physical audits. A process of monthly reporting to the TMU of maintenance works performed and
quarterly physical audits of such reports by an independent engineering firm (financed by PPF) has been in
place since July 1993 and has been reinforced by independent audits since February 1994. This process
will be continued during project implementation through the maintenance management and works
inspectorate component. If a project town meets its initial eligibility requirement, it will receive full
allocation of the project budget for the first phase of investments in periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and
improvements. However, the level of allocations for periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and improvements
to any project town, during the second phase, will depend on its routine maintenance performance and other
performance indicators during the first phase, including local revenue generating and expenditure control
efforts. Project towns performing well during the first phase will be rewarded by increased allocation of
their investment budgets during the second phase, while those which fail to comply with the maintenance
requirements would be penalized by reduced allocations during the second phase. It has been agreed that,
to ensure transparency in the allocation process, the full list of all allocations would be provided to all
participating towns, through the Inter-ministerial Technical Steering Committee (ITSC). A list of eligible



- 24 -
project towns which are in compliance with routine maintenance performance requirements, supported by
independent physical audit reports on their actual performance, was agreed during negotiations.
D.    Subsidiary Agreement
5.04    A Subsidiary Agreement, model included in PIP, will be entered into between the MLG (as the
project implementing agency) and each of the participating project towns, reflecting all aspects of the
project's implementation arrangements, including: (a) respective roles, responsibilities, obligations of each
of the parties; (b) an agreed prioritized candidate list of works; (c) the allocated project budget, scope of
work, schedule and method of implementation of various types of works for each project town; (d)
performance criteria on which towns will be evaluated at the mid-term review; (e) financial management,
accounting and reporting requirements; (f) financial, legal and contractual obligations of each involved
party; (g) conditions of spending project funds; (e.g., limitations on the use of routine maintenance funds
for equipment purchase); (h) an initial rating of the maintenance management capacity of each project
town; and (i) formula for adjusting normal allocations based on actual performance. It has been agreed
that signed Subsidiary Agreements with each participating project town will be a pre-requisite for receiving
IDA's approval for the award of contracts packages involving that particular project town (even when there
is more than one project town covered under a specific contract package). Signed Subsidiary Agreements
with at least six (6) project towns would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
5.05    For contractual purposes, the project towns are identified as the "Beneficiaries", the MLG as the
"Employer:, the TMU as the "Engineer", and Construction Supervision Consultants (CSCs) as the
"Engineer's Representative".
E.    Project Management
5.06    The project will be implemented by the MLG, on behalf of and assisted by the participating
towns, with the TMU acting in the capacity of Project Manager, reporting to the Permanent Secretary,
MLG. The government will bear full financial responsibility. The specific responsibilities and functions of
the TMU are:  (i) overall project management; (ii) overseeing maintenance planning, budgeting,
management and works inspection by the project towns; (iii) design review; (iv) procurement management
and contract administration; (v) project accounting, financial management and control; (vi) information
technology and management information systems; and, (vii) general administration and facilities
management. In particular, the TMU would be directly responsible for procurement of all civil works and
equipment contracts, financed by GOK and/or IDA funds, and for engaging all engineering and technical
assistance consultants.
5.07    A project implementation structure and TMU staffing plan considered necessary for the scale
and complexity of the project is shown in ANNEX 11. It was agreed that the key positions contained in
this staffing plan will remain with qualified personnel during project implementation, either by civil
servants or contract employees.  Given the design features of the project, its objective and scope, the
capacity of the TMU will be increased by: (a) adding staff through reallocation of existing established posts
within MLG; (b) the provision of additional information technology, communications and transport under
the project; and, (c) contracting the services of engineering and technical assistance consultants. The TMU
will also undertake a comprehensive maintenance management and works inspectorate function by
employing consultants to monitor the physical quality of works implemented by the towns. A Maintenance
Management Section (MMS) within TMU will be charged with managing the consultants for this purpose.
For all works that are implemented by TMU on behalf of the towns there will be a consultative process at
planning, design and construction phases involving the towns, TMU and consultants.



- 25 -
5.08    Within the current TMU structure, many of its officers are presently performing multiple
functions as dictated by the pressures of routine work load. This is understandable and the situation is
likely to continue. However, with the start of the project, both the nature and scope of work load of TMU's
staff would increase considerably. GOK funds to the 26 project towns will be routed through the MLG and
the TMU which will be responsible for re-allocation of the funds to local authorities and for their financial
audit, in accordance with GOK requirements. It was agreed that the MLG would designate current key
officers of the TMU to take the lead responsibility in all functional areas identified above. Appointment of
staff to key positions which are currently vacant within the TMU (one deputy project manager - finance
and administration, one administrative officer, one accountant assistant, one assistant administration
officer, three accounts clerks and one computer operator) will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
F.    Maintenance Management and Works Inspectorate Function
5.09    A central design feature of the project is to establish a fully functional maintenance management
and works inspectorate function which will be the responsibility of a Maintenance Management Section
(MMS) within the TMU and local consultants will be employed to carry out these activities on behalf of the
TMU. A basic maintenance management system has been in place since early 1993 (para. 5.03) with
towns reporting monthly on their road maintenance activities. Three physical audits have been carried out
by consultants (under the PPF) who also provided technical assistance to the towns on the operation of the
system and general aspects of routine maintenance. Local consultants will be engaged under the project to
assist the MMS to monitor the physical performance of all local authorities in receipt of GOK funding for
maintenance by means of physical audit of monthly reports (on a quarterly basis with actual timing being
randomly selected) with the objective of producing, for each local authority, a Maintenance Performance
Rating (MPR). In addition to audit, the consultants engaged under this component will provide technical
advisory services to project towns in the fields of maintenance planning and execution including the
engagement and management of small labor based contracts for routine maintenance works.
5.10    While the primary focus of this function would be to ensure the adequacy of maintenance and
quality of works (from both a physical and financial sense) for the 26 project towns, it was agreed that it
would be appropriate for the TMU to extend this form of "quality control" to all other local authorities,
including those outside the scope of the project, who will also receive funding from the GOK (in addition to
the $40.0 million for the project), so as to apply the same maintenance management/works execution
principles and discipline being adopted under the project to all of TMU's activities in this area nationally.
It. was therefore agreed to finance some of the incremental operating cost for this purpose under the project.
The draft Terms of Reference, with detailed operational guidelines for audit and for computation of the
Maintenance Performance rating, and a sample consultancy contract for the maintenance management and
works inspectorate function has been agreed with the TMU.
G.    Construction Program and Contracting
5.11    Consultants will be engaged by the MLG for supervision of construction by contractors (termed
Construction Supervision Consultants - CSC), reporting to the TMU. Works contracted by TMU
(Engineer) will be supervised by the CSCs (as the Engineer's Representative). It has been agreed that there
will be six (6) CSCs for supervision of all construction works under the first phase, distributed on a
regional basis (an exception will be the first phase periodic maintenance contracts in Nairobi which will be
supervised by Nairobi City Council as Engineer's Representative). ANNEX 2 shows the groups of project
towns per CSC. The draft Terms of Reference, with specific scope of work for each of the six CSCs, and
a sample consultancy contract for such services have been agreed with the TMU.
5.12    Similar arrangements will apply during the second phase of the project as well. One of the
key project objectives is the gradual devolution of implementation responsibility to towns as they



- 26 -
demonstrate their capacity for and commitment to the maintenance of their road networks. Towns
demonstrating good performance in terms of quantity, quality and planning may be delegated
responsibility for administering funds for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works  Depending
on the performance and demonstrated capacity to effectively carry out routine maintenance during the
first phase, the respective roles of the TMU, the project towns and the CSCs may be altered during the
second phase to give the project towns either more or less direct works supervision and management
responsibility.  The respective functions of the various parties and their possible adjustments are
explained in ANNEX 12.
5.13    The majority of civil works will be executed by contract. All periodic maintenance, rehabilitation
and improvement works will be contracted under ICB procedures. The Nairobi traffic management
component includes procurement of traffic signals and associated equipment. Civil works needed for
installation will be executed as a part of rehabilitation or improvement contracts. Routine maintenance
works will be executed by a mixture of contract and direct labor. During the first phase, only some routine
and periodic maintenance works will be executed directly by the towns. It is expected that towns will use
their existing direct labor resources (staff and equipment) to the extent possible, however, where works
exceed the capacity of existing organizations, towns will be encouraged to contract out works rather than
engaging more staff and/or purchasing equipment. In the case of small towns who have, at the start of the
project, insufficient capacity to execute routine maintenance works or who have proved, under Maintenance
Management Section's (MMS) monitoring process, to have a low performance rating, such works will be
contracted directly by MLG.
5.14   It has been agreed, and will be so reflected in the Subsidiary Agreement with the towns, that each
project town will be required to contract out a minimum of 30% of routine maintenance, funded by GOK,
annually (i.e., up to 70% of routine maintenance works may be carried out by using force account by the
project towns), and that they will be prohibited from using such funds to purchase major equipment or for
payment of salaries. Where GOK funds are directly utilize by TMU on behalf of the town (there are a few
very small towns who do not yet have even the minimum capacity to undertake routine maintenance works),
works will always be contracted. It has also been agreed that the periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and
improvement works will be contracted out.
H.    Other Capacity Building Inputs
5.15    Specialist technical assistance, internationally recruited, will be brought in at various points in
time during the first three years of the project, to assist the TMU and the project towns (where
appropriate), in the following areas: (a) maintenance planning, programming and budgeting systems and
procedures; (b) technical road rehabilitation and improvement design standards and design review
guidelines; and (c) procurement management and contracts administrations systems and procedures. Draft
Terns of Reference and sample consultancy contract document have been agreed with MLG.
5.16    Technical assistance would also be provided for: (a) improved traffic management and
coordination and road safety improvements in Nairobi; (b) mapping; and (c) studies of long-term land use
and transport demand management in Nairobi. Draft Terms of References for the above technical
assistance and sample consultancy contract documents have been agreed with MLG. In addition, a study
of appropriate long-term road infrastructure investments in Mombasa will be undertaken in the context of
unique drainage problems facing the town. Given the significance of these two studies to the long term
needs of the sub-sector in Nairobi and Mombasa, detailed Terms of References were agreed during
negotiations.
5.17    MLG would directly oversee a program of training and staff development for selected TMU and
local authorities staff. Technical staff in project towns would receive training both locally and overseas.



- 27 -
Workshops and seminars would be organized to educate personnel in project towns and to reinforce the
sense of project ownership. A detailed program of staff training and development has been agreed with
MLG.
I.    Future Project Preparation Support
5.18   The precise nature of consultant assistance, studies and pilot programs for preparing a future
municipal investment program will be decided during the mid term review of the project. Specifics of these
tasks and activities will first need to be agreed with IDA before any good or services are financed under the
Credit for this purpose.
J.    Financial Arrangements
5.19    GOK contribution to the project, totaling US$40 million equivalent, will be provided to the
project towns through MLG. These funds will be used to finance 100% routine maintenance expenditures,
50% of the total costs of the maintenance management and works inspectorate functions (20% for the first
phase and 80% for the second phase). The balance of GOK contributions will be used to finance the
government's share of the periodic maintenance costs, as well as duties and taxes under the project.
Assurances were received during negotiations that GOK will make available its annual counterpart
contributions to the MLG in equal quarterly installments in advance; and that MLG would in turn allocate
such funds to the project towns, primarily for routine maintenance, largely based on population, also on a
quarterly basis. TMU will maintain appropriate accounting records and statements showing receipts, from
GOK, and disbursements of such funds by MLG.
5.20    Assurances were received during negotiations that GOK will make available to the MLG for the
project the following annual amounts (totaling US$40.0 million equivalent): FY95/96 - US$4.0 million
equivalent, FY96/97 and FY97/98 - US$7.0 million equivalent per year, FY98/99 - US$8.0 million
equivalent, FY90/00 and FYOO/01 - US$7.0 million equivalent, to be received by MLG in equal quarterly
amounts. Assurances were obtained that MLG will provide IDA with a quarterly analytical statement
showing amounts received by MLG from GOK, amounts disbursed to the project towns for routine
maintenance expenditures and for other project related activities. An initial deposit of US$1.67 million
equivalent towards FY95/96 contribution into the project account by GOK will be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
K.    Local Authority Participation
5.21    The existing Inter-ministerial Urban Transport Policy Coordination Committee (UTPC) and the
Inter-ministerial Technical Steering Committee (ITSC) will continue to play their roles in project
implementation. Under the ITSC, subcommittees, grouping together project towns on size and regional
basis, have been formed. These sub-committees meet to discuss technical aspects of the project and prepare
recommendations to the parent ITSC committee. They will continue to meet during the project
implementation, providing a forum for local authorities to discuss and highlight issues affecting the
execution of the project, which is important to preserve the sense of project ownership.
5.22    The local authorities will also be involved in: (i) preparing annual maintenance plans which have
to be approved by their councils; (ii) signing-off on the list of works which will include the first phase
works; (iii) undertaking routine maintenance (by those project towns who have been assessed to have
adequate capacity); (iv) receiving engineers/town clerks reports on the monthly site-meetings which they
will have attended; (v) approving the contractor's workplans, in regards to required traffic management
measures, so as to provide the public notices needed for the necessary diversions where a section of road



- 28 -
would be closed; and (vi) final inspection and issuance of defect liability certificates, since, over time, the
completed roads would be handed over to the councils for on-going maintenance.
L.    Progress Reporting, Annual and Mid-term Review
5.23    The PIP includes an agreed format of quarterly progress report, which IDA should receive from
the MLG, on implementation progress of the project. This report will include, inter alia, status of key
project activities -- covering all aspects of the project. It has been agreed that MLG will provide IDA with
quarterly progress reports based on agreed format and content.
5.24    Estimated IDA supervision inputs are shown in ANNEX 13. In addition to regular IDA
supervision, the on-going review and reporting by the MMS and review of the CSCs performance by the
TMU, an annual report of routine maintenance performance by individual local authorities will be prepared
by MLG (through TMU). TMU would propose to MLG and IDA any remedial actions which might be
taken to ensure improved routine maintenance performance. It has been agreed that the TMU will provide
IDA with an annual report on routine maintenance performance by project towns.
5.25   Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a comprehensive mid-term review of overall
implementation performance by the TMU and the project towns, with particular attention to routine
maintenance performance, during years 1-3 of the project (first phase) will take place around March 1999
using the following criteria: (i) quantitative and qualitative use of routine maintenance funds received by
project towns; (ii) actual physical outputs as compared to targets; (iii) efficiency of awarding/managing
routine maintenance contracts; (iv) planning and prioritization of maintenance tasks; and (v) initiative for
local revenue generation. Allocation of the total project budget for the second phase to individual project
towns will be agreed with IDA during the mid-term review. Additionally, ANNEX 14 summarizes some of
the key performance and impact indicators which will be applied in measuring quality of project
implementation.



-29-
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.    Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.01   The main project benefits would accrue to the Kenyan economy as a whole. The quantified
benefits, used in the economic analyses, were road user cost savings for periodic maintenance, road
rehabilitation and road improvements. However, in the case of major capacity improvement works in
Nairobi, time savings of road users, including passengers, provide the main source of quantifiable benefits.
Unquantified benefits would also accrue as a result of reduced traffic congestion (less air and noise
pollution), better traffic management (less vehicle accidents and increased safety for bicycles and
pedestrians), street lighting maintenance and improvements (better security), improvement of bus stations
and footpath/bicycle-path improvements (better service and increased traffic safety). Indirect benefits
would result from improved access to the workplace and to living areas of the poor (only partially
quantified by the economic value of time-savings) and improved drainage (facilitating malaria control).
The impact of institutional strengthening, dissemination of the technical expertise and improved
management procedures could benefit planning and execution of similar improvements throughout the
country. Finally, the project would support and improve capacity of the local authorities to better manage
their service delivery and development programs.
6.02    The primary direct beneficiaries would be motorized road users and the non-motorized road
users (pedestrians and cyclists, among whom are numbered predominantly lower income groups, including
the urban poor). Among the former, less directly, would be the passengers using public transport (again,
substantial numbers of poor). Analysis of traffic data, for roads included in the first phase rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance works, showed that around 75% of passenger trips were by bus or light goods
vehicles and only 25% by car. Improved roads will lead to improved bus services. In addition, a number
of road improvements are specifically targeted at the provision of better access to and from bus transport
for low income housing estates.
B.    Economic Analysis
6.03    ANNEX 15 shows the economic analysis for the first phase investments, yielding an overall
ERR of about 41% for all towns with respect to the periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and capacity
improvement projects. The calculations used road user costs savings to represent the quantified benefits,
expressed in terms of constant prices. The analyses used a simplified model, derived from HDM-III
(reflecting least total cost solutions considering a discounted stream of benefits and costs to include
investment, maintenance and user costs), and compared 20-year project costs, including those of
subsequent routine and periodic maintenance, against a minimum maintenance scenario. The analyses thus
consider the future benefits from the institutionalization of adequate capacity and funding for road
maintenance and not just the immediate benefits from the project funded civil works. The analyses yielded
an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) ranging from under 10% (improvement of roads serving low income
areas in small towns) to over 100% (rehabilitation of high volume roads in the larger towns). It was not
possible to quantify benefits for some civil works using traditional techniques; these included footpath
construction independent of road works and improvement of bus stations. The works for which benefits
were quantified comprised about 80% of the first phase investments (or about 48% total civil works under
the project). Under base value assumptions (see ANNEX 15), periodic maintenance and rehabilitation
investments yielded an ERR of about 55% and capacity improvement projects yielded an ERR of about
28%.
6.04    Sensitivity analysis was also carried out for rehabilitation and capacity improvement projects
separately. The impact on ERR through changes in key cost and benefit parameters are indicated in Table
5 and 6 of ANNEX 15 for periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and capacity improvement projects,



- 30 -
respectively. Under the worst case scenario (construction costs increase by 20% and overall benefits are
reduced by over 20%), the ERRs for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation projects decline from 55%
under base case consumptions to about 30% and the ERR for capacity improvement projects decline from
28% to about 4%; with an overall ERR for the first phase investments declining from 41% to about 18%.
6.05    For investments in routine maintenance, economic evaluation was carried out on the basis of
benefit to cost relationship and is indicated in Table 8 of ANNEX 15. The weighted average benefit cost
ratio on an annual basis is around 9.9 under base value assumptions. This ratio is very sensitive to
assumption of proportion of roads maintained with high traffic volumes. If the proportion of high traffic
volume roads was reduced by 50% in the routine maintenance program, the benefit cost ratio would fall to
about 6. 1.
C.    Impact on the Poor
6.06    Kenya has a high overall population growth rate (2.7% p.a. over recent years) which cannot be
sustained by increased agricultural production in rural areas. Hence the growth in urban population has
been higher than the national average with a consequent rise in urban low income groups (estimated at 30%
of the urban population or 1.25 million people) and urban unemployment (estimated at 23% of the urban
population). Improving the efficiency of the urban transport in Kenya would promote the development and
efficiency of the urban manufacturing and service sectors and thus indirectly benefit the urban poor. A
major consideration in project design has been to include specific selection and design criteria for sub-
projects which explicitly recognize the needs of the poor (such as proximity to low income areas, roads
heavily used by the poor, the need for pedestrian facilities etc.).
6.07    Direct impact on low income groups will be through road improvements and the improvement of
pedestrian and cycle facilities. Footpath construction, improvement and maintenance is an integral part of
the civil works program in all towns (around 15% of construction costs or US$15 million) and the SSATP
pilot projects will additionally promote better footpaths in low income areas and the increased use of
bicycles in four towns. Street lighting is of increasing concern to urban residents for reasons of personal
security and this is being addressed under the project. In the first phase, the emphasis will be on
encouraging towns to repair/maintain existing lighting which, in many instances, is largely non-functional
due to lack of maintenance funds and theft of lighting units. Where towns show a capability to maintain
their street lights during the first years of the project, funds will be included for new lighting during the
second phase.
6.08    Many of the civil works are labor-intensive and will provide employment for unskilled workers.
While, in the case of rehabilitation and improvement works, such employment is for a limited period in the
case of maintenance operations the works will be continuing beyond the life of the project. It is estimated
that an annual average expenditure of US$4 million on routine maintenance in the project towns will
provide additional permanent employment for between 3,000 and 5,000 in the local construction industry
involved in road maintenance in Kenya.
6.09    TMU is responsible for providing support for local road maintenance and improvement activities
in some 140 rural and urban local authorities, in addition to the project towns. Project support for the
MMS and the maintenance management and works inpectorate function globally will contribute towards
improved maintenance management of rural access roads and thus supplement other efforts aimed at relief
of rural poverty.



-31 -
D.    Road Safety
6.10   The project would provide technical assistance for strengthening the institutional framework and
financing for physical investments directed at targeted "black spot" programs in Nairobi and the other
major towns, aimed at providing safer environment for pedestrians, most of whom are the poor. The road
safety situation in Kenya, particularly in some of the larger towns, gives rise to significant concem. The
number of reported accidents increased at the rate of 6.8% p.a. throughout the 1980's, twice the population
growth rate and two-and-a half times the rate of motor vehicle fleet growth rate. In recent years about 60%
of all personal injury accidents are estimated to occur in Nairobi alone. Most of these accidents involve
pedestrians. Human costs of traffic casualties and traffic-related losses are difficult to quantify, but are
significant. Through the efforts of bilateral donors, such as the Finnish government assistance to the
National Road Safety Council, some priority safety interventions and the necessary institutional
arrangements for improving road safety have been identified. As a part of the traffic management
component and the non-motorized investments, the project would also support road safety improvement,
particularly in Nairobi.
E.    Environmental Impact
6.11    The project is a category B project and would not have any significant adverse environmental
impacts. All maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement works under the project affect existing roads
and do not involve any land acquisition or permanent resettlement of people. The major capacity
improvements in Nairobi (dualling and improved junctions) have been designed to utilize only the existing
right-of-way.  Some tree felling will be needed but replanting has been included in the construction
contracts. For the most part, environmental effects of the project will be positive. The most significant
would be the expected reduction in the rate of growth of urban traffic accidents (between vehicles and
involving cyclists and pedestrians). Decreased air and noise pollution, from exhaust fumes, dust off
unsealed roads and congestion, improved drainage and better street lighting, would positively contribute to
an improved urban environment.
6.12    Clauses have been included in civil works contracts regarding landscape preservation, prevention
of water pollution, abatement of water pollution, dust abatement (during work and materials transport
operations), use of pesticides, disposal of waste materials, construction site sanitation and safety, traffic
safety and signing, as well as fire prevention. Correctly applied and enforced, these clauses will ensure that
construction and maintenance works cause minimal impact on people living on or near the project roads.
ANNEX 16 includes an "Environmental Mitigation Plan" as agreed with the government.
F.    Project Risks and Sustainability
6.13    The main potential risks are: (i) inadequate maintenance discipline by the project towns and the
MLG and the failure of the local authorities to continue to maintain the network efficiently; (ii) insufficient
and uncertain funding from GOK for sustained maintenance of the urban road network; (iii) failure by local
authorities to provide funding priority for basic maintenance over new works or expensive rehabilitation
and by the GOK to pursue and enforce such policy; (iv) failure to adequately improve the management and
technical capacity of the MLG to effectively manage an investment program covering a large number of
towns and (v) delay in implementing the necessary reforms under the municipal reform program which are
required to improve the resource base and financial and operational capabilities of the local authorities for
sustaining the investments.
6.14    These potential risks have been considered during the inception and design of the project. The
Letter of Sectoral Policy on municipal reform and the government's commitment to ensure adequate
resources for routine and periodic road maintenance provide strong foundations for this project.  In



- 32 -
addition, the institutional support component of the project and the agreed implementation arrangements are
both designed to help manage these risks. Institutional risks would be mitigated through the implementation
of a capacity strengthening program to enhance staff skills in maintenance management as well as other key
areas such as procurement and contract management as well as transport planning and management. It
would be unrealistic to expect that equal progress can be made with all local authorities, in strengthening
their capabilities or enlisting support and commitment. Initial eligibility requirement for the project towns
based on past maintenance performance and "phasing" of project funds linking prior maintenance
performance to subsequent allocation of funds to a particular project town are designed to sustain
maintenance discipline and provide incentive for continued good maintenance performance. To ensure that
the project is consistent with sector goals and policies, the project's development objectives would be
pursued through continued dialog with the government on ongoing sector reform efforts and, over the long
term, through support for the Municipal Reform Program.



- 33 -
VII. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    Agreements reached
7.01    Agreements and understandings have been reached on the following:
(a)    A Letter of Sectoral Policy on the GOK's proposed program of municipal reforms (para.
1.15).
(b)    An undertaking by GOK to raise domestic funding for road maintenance to 50% of full
maintenance needs in FY96 and to full funding by the year 2000, and a detailed annual
maintenance funding plan consistent with this undertaking (para. 2.13).
(c)    A Special Account to be established and operated on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (para. 4.15).
(d)    MLG, through the TMU, will maintain appropriate records and accounts for expenditures
under the project, including SOEs as well as the Special Account in accordance to
internationally acceptable accounting standards; that such records and accounts will be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and that audit reports, including
separate reports on the SOEs and the Special Account, will be provided to IDA within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.17).
(e)    A Project Implementation Plan (para. 5.01).
(f)    The project will be implemented according to the agreed PIP, unless otherwise agreed by
IDA (para. 5.01).
(g)    A list of project towns who are in compliance with the routine maintenance performance
requirements to be considered initially eligible for financing under the project, supported
by independent physical audit reports on their actual routine maintenance performance
(para. 5.03).
(h)    Understanding that the project towns which are initially eligible for funding under the
Credit must continue to demonstrate adequate routine maintenance performance during the
first phase to remain eligible for financing under the Credit during the second phase of the
project (para. 5.03).
(i)    TMU will act as the project manager, reporting to the Permanent Secretary, MLG, who
will have over all project implementation responsibility (para. 5.06).
(j)    Key staffing positions in the TMU will remain filled with qualified personnel, to
adequately implernent the project, to cover the following functions: (i) maintenance
management, planning and works inspectorate; (ii) contracts administration; and (iii)
finance and administration (para. 5.07).
(k)    Six construction supervision consultants will be engaged to assist TMU in the first phase
of project implementation and that similar arrangements will continue during the second
phase of project implementation as agreed with IDA (para. 5.11).



- 34 -
(I)    Those project towns which are responsible for executing their own routine maintenance
programs, will be required to contract out at least 30% of such works and that funds
received by them for routine maintenance can not be used for purchase of major equipment
or payment of salaries and benefits of town personnel. This will be reflected in the
Subsidiary Agreement between the MLG and the project towns (para. 5.14).
(m)   All periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement works will be contracted out
(para. 5.14).
(n)    GOK will make available its annual counterpart contributions to the MLG in equal
quarterly installments in advance; and that MLG would in turn allocate such funds to the
project towns, primarily for routine maintenance, largely based on population, also on a
quarterly basis. TMU will maintain appropriate accounting records and statements
showing receipts, from GOK, and disbursements of such funds by MLG (para. 5.19).
(o)    GOK will make available to MLG for the Project the following annual amounts (totaling
US$40 million equivalent): FY95/96 - US$4.0 million, FY96/97 and FY97/98 - US$ 7.0
million per year, FY98/99 - US$8.0 million, FY99/00 and FY00/01 - US$7.0 million per
year through FY01 - US$7.0 million per year, to be received by MLG in equal quarterly
amounts and that MLG will provide IDA with a quarterly analytical statement showing
amounts received by MLG from GOK, amounts disbursed to the project towns for
routine maintenance expenditures and amounts expended for other project related activities
(para. 5.20).
(p)    MLG will provide IDA with quarterly progress report on project implementation progress
containing infornation as agreed with IDA (para. 5.23)
(q)    MLG will provide IDA with an annual report on routine maintenance performnance of the
project towns along with a suggested program of assistance and/or remedial actions to
ensure improved routine maintenance performance by project towns (para. 5.24).
(r)    A  comprehensive mid-term  review  of routine maintenance and implementation
performance by the project towns during years 1-3 of the project (first phase) will take
place around March 1999 using the following criteria: (i) quantitative and qualitative use
of routine maintenance funds received by project towns; (ii) actual physical outputs as
compared to targets; (iii) efficiency of awarding/managing routine maintenance contracts;
(iv) planning and prioritization of maintenance tasks; and (v) initiative for local revenue
generation. Allocation of the overall project budget to individual project towns for years
4-6 of the project (second phase) will be agreed with IDA based on findings of the mid-
term review (para. 5.25).
B.    Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
7.02   The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)    Signed Subsidiary Agreements with at least six (6) project towns (para. 5.04).
(b)    MLG will fill key vacancies within the TMU based on agreed staffing plan required for
project implementation (para. 5.08).



- 35 -
(c)    GOK to make an initial deposit of US$1.67 million equivalent into the project account
(para. 5.20).
C.    Recommendation
7.03   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a Credit to the Republic
of Kenya in the amount of SDR 77.1 million (US$115.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 9
LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY
.      Statement of Purpose
Recent macroeconomic and urbanization trends in Kenya necessitate major changes in the current
system for financing and operating the public services required for continued economic growth. Infra-
structure development has not kept pace with the country's needs during the 1990s, largely due to a number
of fiscal and institutional constraints that have emerged during the period when service demands have
rapidly escalated.
Government has developed a dual strategy for bringing about reforms required to correct the
present situation. The first component of the strategy is to introduce action-oriented construction, operation
and maintenance programs for key infrastructure sectors that are vital for economic development. This
approach is being initially implemented for the transportation sector through the Urban Transport
Infrastructure Project. The second component is to develop a broader program of major intergovernmental
fiscal and institutional reform, which Government plans to do through the Municipal Reform Programme.
While Government believes tangible progress can and will be demonstrated through the sectoral approach,
it also recognizes that the sustainability of reforms realized in the transport sector and the success of future
attempts to extend similar reforms to other key infrastructure sectors critically depend on the systematic
implementation of broader fiscal and institutional reforms. This letter of Sectoral Policy briefly outlines the
most pressing reform requirements and Government's intentions for meeting them.
2.     Background
Although the urban development/local government sector in Kenya has historically been quite
successful, a variety of difficulties and constraints have emerged in recent years. Many local authorities
consistently run deficits and are heavily in debt they are unable to repay. Access to capital is increasingly
limited, investment in and maintenance of infrastructure are inadequate, and many services are provided at
substandard quality levels.
The various types of local authorities suffer in different ways. Older, more established municipal
councils are unable to deliver major services adequately and to replace deteriorating infrastructure. Newer
municipal and town councils are faced with finding a way to provide basic infrastructure without the
massive infusion of Government grants that benefited the older urban areas. Many councils have inelastic
sources of revenue and large employee rolls which take upto 70% of annual income. The consequences of
this situation go well beyond the obvious local service shortfalls. As local authorities are part of an
integrated system of national and local institutions that should be working together in pursuit of common
objectives, the inability of the councils to meet their share of development responsibilities undermines
national economic growth. In particular, the heavy dependence of local authorities on Government to
finance infrastructure investment is not sustainable given the present state of the economy and concurrent
pressure for central fiscal reform by donors and multilateral agencies. The situation is further complicated
because demand for public service is increasing rapidly with population growth.
As the national fiscal constraints that prevent sectoral ministries from dealing with the growing
infrastructure shortfall become increasingly binding, the ability of the local authorities to manage capital
investments and services operation more responsibly becomes increasingly critical for the continued
success of the Kenyan economy. Recognizing this reality, Government has determined that it is essential to



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 9
implement major changes in the intergovernmental fiscal system to complement the extensive programme
of macroeconomic reform and structural adjustment that has already been undertaken in recent years.
3.     The Present Situation
Government recognizes six key areas in the urban development/local government sector that
require reform.
(a)    Intergovernmental Relations
The Ministry of Local Government (MLG), which is responsible for overseeing the system of local
government, is highly centralized. It has traditionally focused more on regulating and controlling
local authorities than assisting them technically or financially. This situation, which results from
the narrow historical interpretation of the Local Government Act, is no longer appropriate given
recent economic, administrative and political developments. Several considerations are particularly
relevant in this regard. First, as democratization and citizen participation emerge as priorities, the
development of genuine accountability of local leaders to their constituencies is required. Under
the present system, local councillors and officers can easily blame poor performance on Central
Government interference, even when this is not the case. Second MLG has not received the
resources required to adapt to the rapid increase in the number of local authorities during the past
decade. The lack of better developed MLG information base and technical capacity results in: (i)
the creation and upgrading of local authorities that cannot handle basic responsibilities; (ii) highly
uneven patterns of revenue generation and service delivery across local authorities; and (iii) long
delays in making decisions on local authority requests. Third, lack of technical assistance from
MLG is a major obstacle for weaker local authorities, who have little hope of functioning
effectively without such support. MLG's technical assistance capacity has improved in recent years
with the creation of the Urban Development Department (UDD) and the Finance, Legal and
Administration Department (FLAD), but it remains too limited to meet ever-increasing require-
ments. Fourth, central-local fiscal relations during the past two decades have developed in a
piecemeal manner rather than under a unified vision of what the fiscal roles of central and local
governments should be. As a result: (i) several key sources of local revenue duplicate existing
government sources; (ii) local authorities are deprived of substantial revenues because Government
agencies rarely remit the full value of what they owe in the form of payments in lieu of land rates,
local authority service charges and user fees; and (iii) the lack of an intergovernmental grant
system, which was largely phased out in the 1970s, creates a situation in which poor local
authorities do not have access to adequate financial resources and the MLG has limited ability to
influence local authority behaviour with positive incentives.
(b)    Financing Local Infrastructure Investment
Loan funds for local infrastructure development have become more scarce in recent years largely
because of a deteriorating system for financing local investment. The majority of funding has
historically come from donor loans channelled by Treasury to the councils through the Local
Government Loan Authority (LGLA), a parastatal under direct MLG control. A substantial portion
of these loans has not been repaid by local authorities, but must nevertheless be repaid to foreign
lenders by Treasury. This situation places a significant strain on Government at a time when there
is severe donor pressure for budget rationalization, including improvement of public investment



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 9
quality and reduction of debt service. While part of the responsibility clearly rests with local
authorities, Government and its parastatals contributes to the inability of the councils to repay loans
by frequently failing to remit what they owe, as discussed above. Equally important, LGLA has not
enforced local authority loan repayment and Treasury has not pressured LGLA to do so.
(c)    Infrastructure Maintenance and Operations
It has been well documented that resources devoted to the operations and maintenance of basic
infrastructure development in Kenya are well below what is required to meet current needs. New
infrastructure development is proceeding slowly, maintenance of existing facilities is deteriorating,
and basic services are not available to many people, especially the poor. In the case of the transport
sector, road maintenance and improvements have not been given a high priority at either the
national or local level in recent years, with overall expenditures on roads falling steadily as a
percentage of total expenditures throughout the 1980s. Given the difficult national budgetary
situation, Government is not in a position to shoulder the full burden of responsibility for urban
transport. Local authority resources raised for transportation purposes, however have been very
minor to date, and local authority planning and engineering capacity has not been well developed.
(d)    Recurrent Revenue Collection
Although local authorities in Kenya have substantial sources of revenue relative to many
developing countries, councils have not historically been granted uniform access to all relevant
local revenue bases by MLG, and local authorities have not fully mobilized the resources made
available to them. Most allowable revenue bases are not fully assessed, and revenue rates are set
too low to cover required expenditures, even in the case of cost-recoverable services for which
direct user fees are charged. Moreover, the buoyancy of revenue yields is poor because of the way
rates are set and revised and collection procedures are limited and not well enforced. Although the
present situation derives from weak management at the local authority level, Government action (or
inaction) is also well known to affect the ability of local authorities to raise revenues. Key
examples include: (i) the inability of the Ministry of Lands to handle the enormous burden of
revaluing land in a timely manner; (ii) long delays in Attorney General and MLG approval of the
local by-laws required for local authorities to collect their allowable revenues; and (iii) the
underdevelopment of adequate local government revenue collection enforcement capacity.
(e)    Management Systems
Local authority accounting methods currently in use are cumbersome and difficult for most
councils to use. Inaccurate and poorly organized basic records on council financial transactions
lead to unnecessarily weak revenue and expenditure management and control, and make it very
difficult to plan for future needs and prepare meaningful forward budgets. In addition, most
councils have limited internal auditing, and the internal auditor is under the control of the treasurer,
who has overall responsibility for the council's funds.
(f)    Staffing and Training
It is well documented that both under-and-over-staffing occur in local authorities, and vacancy rates
are very high for skilled staff. Basic local authority personnel regulations and job definitions are



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 9
lacking, and the absence of an employee evaluation, disciplinary and incentive system undernines
performance. Inadequate attention is also given to planning and organizing training activities in
many local authorities and at the MLG, largely due to lack of resources at both levels. At the same
time, there are insufficient training facilities and programs for local authority officers and council-
lors.
4.     Reforms of the Present System
Government recognizes that the local service delivery and finance system requires comprehensive
reform. As noted above, a dual-component strategy has been designed for bringing about these reforms.
The first task is to introduce construction, operation and maintenance programs for key infrastructure
sectors that are vital for economic development, starting with the transportation sector through the Urban
Transport Infrastructure Project. The second step is to develop a broader supporting program of major
intergovernmental fiscal and institutional reform with the assistance of the Municipal Reform Programme.
The sustainability of reforms realized in the transport sector and the success of future attempts to extend
similar reforms to other infrastructure sectors depend on the systematic implementation of broader fiscal
and institutional reforms. Thus, the two new project/programmes are highly interrelated.
5.     Infrastructural Provision: The Urban Transport Project
Government is committed to improving the present mechanisms for financing, constructing,
maintaining and operating basic infrastructure. As a starting point, the Urban Transport Infrastructure
Project will undertake four key reforms for the transport sector.
(a)    Increase Financial Resources for Construction and Maintenance
The Urban Transport Infrastructure Project will make investment finance available to participating
local authorities that meet certain fiscal and technical conditions. In addition, efforts are also
underway to reform the LGLA in order to ensure that adequate capital will be available for
infrastructure investment in the future. On the recurrent budget side, Government has already
instituted a Road Maintenance Levy Fund, part of which will be dedicated to local authority road
expenditures, and there are also plans to develop incentives for local authorities to increase the
volume of resources they raise internally for road maintenance. (Kenya: Macroeconomic and
Structural Policy Framework for 1995 - 97 par. 49).
(b)    Enhance Capacity and Improve Deployment of Technical Staff
Planning and engineering staff involved in the design, operation and maintenance of road systems
and traffic management and coordination will be given better training and more efficiently
deployed. In addition, periodic workshops and seminars will be organized to update local
authorities on new developments and to provide a forum in which they can exchange information
and experiences related to the transport sector.
(c)    Procedural Development and Performance Incentives
Systems for monitoring road condition, scheduling regular maintenance activities and dealing with
emergency situations will be developed to ensure that local authority road systems are operating



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 9
efficiently and are well coordinated with Government activities in this sector. Incentives will also
be introduced through the project to improve local authority performance in these critical tasks.
(d)    Encourage Contracting of Road Maintenance
Road Maintenance provides the opportunity for increased private sector participation because the
tasks can be concretely defined and contractor performance in meeting their obligations can be
directly monitored. In order for expected efficiency gains to be realized, a system will be
developed for ensuring that bids for road maintenance contracts are competitive and for building
the capacity of local authority managers to monitor and oversee these contracts.
6.     Institutional and Fiscal Reform: The Kenya Municipal Reform Programme
Five key reform areas have been targeted for the Municipal Reform Programme by Government to
complement the objectives of the Urban Transport Infrastructure Project, ensure its sustainability, and lay
the foundation for extending similar reforms to other key infrastructure sectors.
(a)    Reform Intergovernmental Relations
The Local Government Act will be significantly reformed to reduce unnecessary control over local
authority activities, and generally decentralize routine MLG activities to provincial/district levels.
Efforts are already underway to implement the changes in the legal framework along the lines
recommended in May 1994 by a Workshop organized specifically to advise on this matter. MLG
has begun the process of internal decentralization, most notably with the devolution of the annual
local authority budget review process to the provincial level. Over time, MLG intends to adapt to
changing fiscal and administrative conditions by transforming its principal role from control and
regulation to technical assistance and performance enhancement. Although local authorities will
continue to require some supervision until their internal capacity to meet their responsibilities is
proven, councils that meet certain standards will be rewarded for good performance by being
granted more fiscal autonomy and a greater access to loans for infrastructure development. The
councils with poor performance will be targeted for higher levels of technical assistance by MLG.
In order for such differentiation among local authorities to occur, a system for evaluating local
capacity and performance will be developed. Information collected for development of this system
will also allow MLG to develop broader standards and guidelines for (i) creating and upgrading
local authorities; (ii) assigning service responsibilities and measuring services delivery perform-
ance; and (iii) assigning sources of revenue and setting revenue collection targets.
With respect to intergovernmental fiscal relations, Government will take steps to ensure that all
payments owed by central agencies to the local authorities will be made in a timely manner, in
addition, consideration will be given to the re-establishment of a system of transfers to local
authorities. These steps will be undertaken in the broader context of harmonizing central and local
sources of revenue in a more efficient and equitable system of public resource mobilization and
service delivery. (IDA Aide Memoire on KMRP of November 1994).
(b)    Improved Local Access to and Use of Capital



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 9
Three steps will be taken by Government to deal with the local infrastructure investment crises.
First, the mutual debt situation will be better documented, and it is Government's intention to
resolve it in a fair and pragmatic way. Second, fiscal responsibility among local authorities,
Government and parastatals will be enhanced. This means that local authorities will be required to
repay loans they take from Government agencies and that Government agencies will meet their
liabilities to local authorities. Third, the LGLA will be significantly restructured to more efficiently
use funds and to introduce fiscal discipline into the system in a formal and binding way. Broader
institutional and procedural reforms, as detailed elsewhere in this sectoral letter, will be introduced
to ensure continued intergovernmental fiscal responsibility.
(c)    Continue Enhancement of Local Revenue Generation Capacity
Government is undertaking three key measures to enhance local authority revenue generation.
First, powers to raise revenue from appropriate sources sufficient to cover service responsibilities
will be extended to all local authorities. This process has already begun in recent years with the
reform of agricultural cess and the introduction of the local authority service charge. Second,
Government intends to help local authorities develop adequate collection mechanisms as part of the
broader program of managerial reforms discussed below. Third, work will be undertaken to
determine legal and administrative actions that should be taken at the central level to improve local
revenue collection enforcement authority.
(d)    Reform Local Authority Management Systems
Three broad reforms are planned to enhance local authority Management. First, Government will
institute guidelines for local authority department and committee organization, which has already
been done for the councils participating in the GTZ Small Towns Development Programme.
Second, standardized and simplified accounting and record-keeping systems will be developed.
Third, better procedures for budgeting, cashflow management, revenue and expenditure control,
and internal auditing will be designed to improve the use of local resources.
(e)    Enhance Local Authority Staffing and Training
Reforms in four aspects of local authority employment policy and procedures are anticipated. First,
Government will generate new local authority employment regulations and guidelines to enable
more rational staffing and personnel management. Second, a system of employee evaluation and
incentives will be introduced to enhance employee performance. Third, Government will intensify
its efforts to train local authority staff at all levels through establishment of innovative training
programs. Fourth, Government will explore ways of introducing the public sector retrenchment
programme to the local government sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 9
7.     Summary
Given the importance of local authorities in service provision and revenue generation and the
inability of central agencies to assume responsibility of rapidly increasing service needs, Government
recognizes that local authority reform has become a critical development issue for Kenya. Through the
Urban Transport Infrastructure Project as a prototype for all key infrastructure sectors, reforms will be
instituted to: increase resources available for construction and maintenance of facilities; enhance the
technical capacity of local authority planning and engineering staff; develop procedures to ensure better
operation and maintenance of the road system; and encourage the contracting of private firms for certain
types of activities.
Recognizing that infrastructure reforms are not sustainable without broader fiscal, managerial and
institutional reforms, Government is also committed to concurrent development of the Municipal Reform
Programme. This programme will have the objectives of rationalizing and harmonizing intergovernmental
relations; improving local authority access to and use of capital for infrastructure investment; continued
enhancement of local authority revenue generation capacity; reform of local authority management systems;
and improvement of local authority recruitment, staffing and training.
Both the Urban Transport Infrastructure Project and the Municipal Reform Programme support
broader Government macroecomonic reforms and build on the achievements of its structural adjustment
programme. As rapid urbanization progresses, the need to provide a climate conducive to better economic
development will continue to grow. Given Government budgetary constraints for the foreseeable future,
expanded local provision and operation of basic infrastructure and broader reform of the intergovernmental
fiscal system are more urgently required than ever, and Government fully intends to act on this need. The
attached intervention schedule summarizes specific tasks and outputs towards this end.



ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 9
Attachment
Letter of Sectoral Policy
Intervention Schedule
Overall Goal         The social. economic and political development of Kenya is promoted through the
existence of viable and well organized LAs
Programme            I. MLG demonstrates increased capability/capacity to guide, control and
Purposes                 support LAs
2. LAs improve performance and enhance their eligibility for private and public
sector investments
Results/ Outputs     I. Review of the Local Govt. Legal Framework initiated
2. FLAD and HRD of MLG formally established
3. Improvement of public service orientation of LAs initiated
4. Systems/tools for improved financial management of LAs developed and tested
5. Strategy for harmonizing local and national taxes initiated
6. Mechanisms and structure for effective management of mutual indebtedness and
financing of LAs formulated
7. Preliminary investment needs of selected LAs identified
8. Programme effectively managed
Activities           1.1 Submit Nyeri Workshop report to Permanent Secretary, MLG for approval
1.2 Review the LA Act CAP 265 & other relevant laws
1.3 Facilitate task force to obtain views of interested parties
1.4 Support MLG task force to expedite formulation of needed reforms
2.1  Present FLAD report to Permanent Secretary, MLG for final approval
2.2 Prepare establishment proposals for departments
2.3 Seek DPM approval for FLAD and HRD
2.4 Seek budgetary allocation from Treasury and advise PSC to recruit MLG staff
2.5 Advise on establishment of a LA service commission
3.1 Review and implement objective criteria for creation, promotion, demotion &
dissolution of LAs
3.2 Facilitate sensitization of the public on missions of LAs
3.3 Carry out management & organization study of selected towns
3.4 Follow up on idea of creating a LA management handbook



ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 9
Attachment
Letter of Sectoral Policy
Activities (cont.)
4.1  Develop an appropriate accounting system for LAs
4.2  Initiate testing of developed system in selected towns
4.3 Establish independent internal audit function in MRP towns
4.4 Assist MRP towns to adapt & implement NCC audit guideline
4.5 Assist MRP towns to adapt STDP budget guidelines and to prepare 95/96 budgets
4.6 Monitor the implementation of budgets in MRP towns
4.7 Assist selected MRP towns to assess their revenue potential and collection systems
4.8 Assist MRP towns to implement action plans to improve revenue bases
4.9  Develop procedures to improve valuation & systematic follow-up of rates defaulters
4.10 Implement developed procedures on a test basis
5.1 Request Treasury to establish inter-ministerial committee on tax harmonization
5.2 Review issues of tax harmonization and implement better tax harmonization program
6.1 Submit and review report of mutual indebtedness committee
6.2  Implement recommendations on resolution of mutual indebtedness issue
7.1 Develop a format to assess development and investment needs of LAs
7.2 Assist selected MRP towns to assess priority investment needs (if necessary)
8.1 lmprove programme management structure according to workshop proposals
8.2 Administer programme funds, supplies, logistics, etc.
8.3  Monitor and evaluate programme activity progress and impacts
LA       -        Local Authority
FLAD    -         Finance, Legal and Administration Department, Ministry of Local Government
HRD      -        Human Resource Department
MLG      -        Ministry of Local Government
DPM      -        Directorate of Personnel Management
MRP      -        Municipal Reform Programme
NCC      -        Nairobi City Council
STDP    -        GTZ supported Small Towns Development Project



AN1NEX 2
Page I of 1
LIST OF PROJECT TOWNS
ProjectTowns                                    CSCGroup  a
Nairobi                                          I &II
Mombasa                                          III
Kajiado
Machakos
Makueni
Malindi
Voi
Eldoret                                          IV
Nakuru
Narok
Kabarnet
Kapsabet
Kericho
Kitale
Kisumu                                           V
Bungoma
Busia
Kakamega
Homa Bay
Kisii
Embu                                             VI
Thika
Garissa
Murang'a
Meru
Nyeri
(a)    The project towns are grouped, on a regional basis, whereby one Construction Supervision
Consutant (CSC) will supervise execution of civil works in all towns in that group.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project would cover up to 26 urban centers in Kenya, namely: Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu and
Eldoret (primary towns) and the 22 secondary towns listed in ANNEX 2. It would consist of four,
complementary components namely: road transport infrastructure maintenance and improvements,
institutional capacity building, policy studies and project implementation support.
A central feature of the project is that, in order to be eligible to participate in any project financed
investments, the project towns must have demonstrated and continue to demonstrate, during the course of
the project, their commitment to execution of routine road maintenance and to assigning maintenance
works priority in the utilization of available funds. Although the cost of executing satisfactory annual
routine maintenance programs would be bome entirely by GOK through the RMF, allocated to the
project towns on the basis of population, these activities represent the primary project objective and their
cost represents almost 20% of total project base cost (25% of the total estimated infrastructure
investments in the 26 towns).
The project, as detailed below and reflected in the project cost estimates, contains both the project
components which would be eligible for financing from the IDA Credit and those for which no credit
financing would be provided. In addition, as the program would be executed in two three-year tranches
and detailed engineering has been completed only for the first tranche, some variation may be expected
in the amount of work to be performed in each investment sub-category. The Project comprises:
1.    Road Transport Infrastructure Investment Program
Routine road maintenance of about 2000 km of urban streets, during the six-year project tranche
period, either by local authority own-forces or by contract, in accordance with a satisfactory
program accepted by TMU, with performance audited by the Maintenance Management and
Works Inspectorate function by the TMU.
Periodic road maintenance works, in all the participating project towns, on about 400 km of
priority paved urban streets, consisting of bituminous surface patching and major resealing,
painting pavement markings, repair of drains, culverts, foot-paths or bicycle-paths and street
lighting (where applicable).
Road rehabilitation works, in all the participating project towns, on about 400 km of priority,
paved urban streets, consisting of major paved road-surface and road-base repairs, bituminous
pavement sealing, pavement marking, also repair or reconstruction of curbs, sidewalks, drainage
structures and facilities, foot-paths and/or bicycle-paths, as well as maintenance of street lighting
and/or traffic signals, or provision therefor.
Road improvement works, in primary towns only, on about 75 km of priority streets, consisting
of construction of strategic missing street sections, selected pavement and/or road widening,
pavement strengthening (through construction of bituminous over-lays), related pavement
marking, drainage and street lighting works, and paving of unpaved road surfaces, as well as, in
Nairobi City only, at selected at-grade street junctions, traffic capacity and safety improvements
(including institution support and black spot programs) comprised of construction of additional
traffic lanes, islands, related pavement markings, lighting and traffic and traffic signal



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
improvements. The works in Nairobi have been costed and shown separately as supervision of
contracts, in this case, would be performed by Nairobi City Council engineering staff as
Engineer's Representative, whereas supervision of all other work contracts would be performed
by construction supervision consultants.
SSATP pilot works and investments, specifically targeted to address the issue of mobility of the
urban poor through an integrated network approach, separate from and in addition to the
construction and/or improvement of new or existing bicycle-paths and foot-paths, including
related drainage improvements, designed and included as a part of periodic maintenance and
road rehabilitation works, above. NMT works would also include pilot traffic management and
infrastructure interventions in Nairobi and Eldoret (see ANNEX 4 for more details on SSATP).
2.    Institutional Capacity Building Program
Establishing the Maintenance Management and Works Inspectorate within the TMU, for the
purpose of verifying, with assistance from contracted, maintenance and works management
consultants, the adequacy of routine and periodic maintenance works, by or for local authorities,
throughout Kenya;
Consulting technical assistance services to the TMU in Maintenance Planning and Contract
Management, to establish a comprehensive maintenance management system which would
include technical reviews of design standards and safety aspects as well as rigorous contract
management systems.
Consulting technical assistance services to the TMU in Traffic Management and Coordination,
comprising traffic engineering and transport planning. The services would cover short-term
traffic management improvements including traffic control systems, parking, public transport
facilities, road safety measures and traffic modeling. They would also include advice and
assistance on long-term land use and environmental matters.
Trainina and Staff Development for MLG/TM-U and local authority staff, in maintenance
planning and management, including maintenance contract management, comprised of seminars,
workshops and overseas training; and
Road Inventory and Condition Survey by specialized firms, to up-date the data base for all local
authority road network and its condition to provide the necessary information for forward
planning for maintenance program and budget.
3.    Program and Policy Studies
A Long-Term Traffic Management Study for Nairobi, to develop a strategy which would
consider, besides transport infrastructure needs, operational, institutional, legislative, land-use
and environmental measures.
A Long-Term Investment Program Study for Mombasa, to prepare a program of investments in
road transport infrastructure, including priority needs before year 2002.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
4.     Project Implementation Support
Engineering consulting services, to TMU, for the preparation of detailed engineering designs for,
and construction supervision services (Construction Supervision Consultants - CSC) for
management and quality control of civil works construction contracts;
Financial audit services, by qualified independent auditors, to annually verify financial and
physical compliance with credit conditions of works for which expenditures are incurred under
the project;
Acquisition installation and maintenance of office equipment for the purpose of establishing,
with assistance of consultants, an up-to-date system of Information Technology commensurate
with project planning and management requirements; and,
Non-project town support to the TMU for start up and incremental costs to carry out existing
maintenance management, planning and monitoring in all urban center (outside the scope of the
26 project towns) through expanded use of the maintenance management and works inspectorate
functions.
5.     Future project preparation support
Technical assistance for studies, design and implementation arrangements to the MLG, for
defining a municipal investment program covering other basic infrastructure services is included.
These activities will support and complement efforts under the MRP. Such activities will
include, inter alia, improving maintenance and investment planning, resource mobilization and
expenditure management practices for other municipal services. These initiatives would be
based on the experience gained in implementing the proposed project as well as the MRP and the
lessons learned would be applied to other sub-sectors or activities managed by local authorities.
Possible demonstration projects in selected towns would serve as centers for further training and
capacity building of local authorities' staff.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
SSATP INITIATIVES AND NON-MOTORIZED TRANSPORT
The Urban Transport Component (UTC) forms part of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy
(SSATP) program, a program managed by the World Bank, in partnership with the United Nations
Economic Commission for Africa. Main objectives of the SSATP, which started in 1987, are to improve
transport efficiency in SSA through major policy reforms and to strengthen indigenous capacities for
policy analysis and formulation. The SSATP is implemented through a series of discrete components;
the Urban Transport Component, Phase I, commenced in 1990.
In March 1991 the SSATP UTC Phase I dissemination seminar on urban public transport was
held
in Yaounde. The study results drew attention to the high cost and poor availability of public transport
and the lack of non-motorized transport facilities in Africa's urban areas. The urban poor are particularly
affected because affordable housing, or squatter settlements, are often located on the periphery of the
urban areas, far from the main employment centers. Consequently, many workers and those in search of
jobs, have to travel long distances on a daily basis, resulting in public transport expenditures that
frequently amount up to 30 percent of personal income. This leaves the low income group no other
option than walking for the majority of their trips.
Within the framework of the second phase of the Urban Transport Component, a study co-
financed by the Dutch and the French governments, started out in 1993 to analyze non-motorized
transport (NMT) development issues in cities of Mali, Burkina Faso, Senegal, Tanzania and Kenya. The
study was coordinated by a French consultant in the case of the three French speaking countries and a
Dutch consultant team in Kenya and Tanzania, with strong participation of local expertise. The
conclusions of the two parallel studies have been discussed and finalized on a workshop in Nairobi in
October 1994.
The Dutch government agreed upon financing a follow-up of the NMT study in Kenya and
Tanzania. Based on Action Plans prepared in Phase I, priority will be given to institutional capacity
building and implementation of pilot intervention measures in Nairobi, Eldoret, Dar es Salaam and
Morogoro. The interventions will complement road interventions and include, but are not limited to (1)
pedestrian/public transport improvements at the local neighbourhood level, (2) integration of NMT and
socio-economic activities, (3) improvements for cyclists, (4) increased supply of bicycles to promote
local assembly and repair facilities, (5) educational programs which can foment the use of non-motorized
transport modes and transform the notion of backwardness attached to NMT by showing advantages and
examples of their use as complements to road transport.
Under the Urban Transport Infrastructure Project the activities started under Phase II of the
SSATP-NMT component will continue and expanded to include two small towns (Busia and Bungoma).
Before embarking upon large scale investments the results of the pilot projects will be monitored and
evaluated. This will result in a 'top-ten' of most (cost) effective NMT interventions, that can be
introduced on a larger scale, using the gradually built-up institutional capacity and local expertise. The
Project Preparation Units (PPUs), established in Nairobi and Eldoret, under the SSATP program would
also be expanded, with project financing, to provide training to TMU and local authority engineering
staff, in the design and implementation of NMT.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPONENTS AND EXPENDITURES BY YEAR
(US$ '000)
1996              1g97              1998              1999              2000              2001              2002      2003     Total
A. ROAD AND TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
Routine Maintenance                     1,005.9            4,386.0           4,500.1           4,617.1           4,737.1           4,860.3           3,226.7   -        27,333.1
Periodic Maintenance                                        739.8            3,036.1           3,115.0           3,374.0           3,522.6           2,710.7            16,498.3
Rehabilitation Works                                      2,244.5            9,175.5           9,414.0           6,219.6           5,205.1           4,005.3            36,264.0
Inprovemnents                                              1,000.7           4,106.8           4,326.9           6,234.8           6,957.8           5,262.2            27,889.2
SSATP Pilot Investments                                    769.2               703.2            687.0             704.9              723.2             819.5             4,407.0
Traffic Management Infrastructure                          1,174.2           1,486.8            104.3              833.8             855.5             228.5     -       6083.2
SubtotalRoadandTrmnsportInfrastructurc       1,005.9          10,314.4           23,008.4         23,664.4            22,104.2          22,124.5         16,252.9     -     11,474.7
B. CAPACITYBUILDING
MaintenanceandWorks Inspectorate         265.0              271.9              446.4            458.0              469.9             482.1            494.7      -       2,888.0
Maintenance Planning and Procurernent Mgt.  204.1           209.4              298.5  -         283.4         -                        -                 -       -         995.4
Traffic ManagementandCoordination                           438.3              449.7            577.1              117.5             120.5              -        -       1,703.2
Training and StaffDevelopmnent                               81.9              466.4            426.4              524.9             160.8            147.1      24.4    1.831.9
Mapping                                  667.9            2,055.7             1,406.1          1,442.7           1,480.2               -                 -               7,052.7
SubtotaliCAPACITYBUILDING                    1,137.0           3,057.3             3,067.2          3,187.6           2,592.5             763.4            641.8     24.4   14,471.1
C PROGRAM AND POLICY STUDIES
Nairobi Long-Termn Traffic Managernent Study    265.0       271.9            -                 -                 -                 -                 -        -            537.0
Mombasa Long-Term Investment Study       132.5              136.0            -                 -                 -                 -                 -        -            268.5
Subtotall PROGRAM/POLICY STUDIES             397.6              407.9            -                 -                 -                 -                 -         -           805.4
D. PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONSUPPORT              1.231.3           2,846.7           2,261.2           3.806.9            4,502.1           2,823.5           2,283.6      -     19755.3
Subtotal PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SUPPORT                                 1,231.3           2,846.7            2,261.2           3,806.9           4,502.1           2,823.5           2,283.6   -        19,755.3
E. FUTUREPROJECTPREPARATION                  -                 -                 -                 -                  -                 -                   593.6    913.5   1.507.1
Subtotal FUTURE PROJECT PREPARATION          -                 -                 -                 -                 -                  2.000.3            593.6    913 5   1.507 1
Reserve Progrm I
Periodic Maintenance                                                           708.2           13,476.1           9,783.7          10,008&7                              33,976.7
Improvements                             447.6             458.0              304.9            26,369.4          20,231.9          20,697.2                              68,509.0
Rehabilitation Works                     1117.4                               141.8            13,663.8          10,480.6          10.693.1                              36.096.8
, ., z:..::z...                                            ................................        ..
1 This program represents investments identified during project preparation, but not included in the project. These investments, although considered necessary are not of ligh priority. However, the
preliminary design of these investments have been completed and, consequently, are available for financing by other donors, if interested.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of I
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY FINANCIERS
(uss '000)
Local Costs
GOK                     IDA                      Total                                   (ExcL           Duties &
Amount           %      Amount            %     Amount            %      For. Exch.       Taxes)          Taxes
A. ROAD AND TRANSPORT IAFRASTRUCTURE
Routine Maintenance                          27,333.0         100.0                           27,333.0         17.6-                   27,333.0
Periodic Maintenance                           3,240.5         19.6   13,257.8         80.4   16,498.3         10.6     8,397.0         7,276.3          824.9
Rehabilitation Works                          4,351.7          12.0   31,912.3         88.0   36,264.0         23.4    25,384.8         9,066.0         1,813.2
Improvements                                   3,346.7         12.0  24,542.5          88.0   27,889.2         18.0    19,522.4         6,972.2         1,394.5
SSATP Pilot Investments                                                4,407.0        100.0    4,407.0          2.8                     4,407.0
Traffic Management Infrastructure               294.4           4.8    5,788.8         95.2    6,083.2          3.9     4,611.3          1.250.8         221.0
Subtotal Road and Transport Infrastructure    38,566.3         32.6   79,908.4         67.4   118,474.7        76.4   57,915.6         56,305.5         4,253.6
R CAPACITYBUILDING
Maintenance and Works Inspectorate            1,444.0          50.0   1,444.0          50.0  2,888.0            1.9            -        2,888.0
Maintenance Planning and Procurement Mgt.    -                          995.4         100.0    995.4           0.6        831.8           163.6         -
Traffic Management and Coordination                   -               1,703.2         100.0   1,703,2           1.1     1,307.5           395.7
Training and StaffDevelopment        -                -               1,831.9         100.0   1,831.9           1.2       515.0          1,316.9
Mapping              -               -                                7,052.7         100.0   7.052.7          4.5                       7,052.7
Subtotal Capacity Building                    1,444.0          10.0  13,027.2          90.0  14,471.2          9.3       2,654.3        11,816.8
C PROGRAM AND POLICY STUDIES
Nairobi Long-Term Traffic Management Study            -                 537.0          100.0    537.0          0.3        429.6           107.4
Mombasa Long-Term Investment Study           -                          268.4         100.0    268.4           0.2        214.7            53.7
Subtotal PROGRAMIPOLICY STUDIES                       -                 805.4          100.0    805.4          0.5        644.3           161.1
D. PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONSUPPORT                                           19,755.3        100.0  19,755.3         12.7       378.5         19,376.8
E FUTURE PROJECT PREPARATION                                               1,507.1        100.0   1,507.1          1.0       452.1          1,055.0
,.., ............. ,,,n., ., , X ....... 1. .S. ..                    ., ..  ,   .7...# ,4 A



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ millions)
Cumulative
Disbursement         Disbursement         Cumulative (%)
Fiscal Year Ending   (US$ Million)        (US$ Million)        Disbursement
Fiscal Year 1995/96
June 30             2.6                  2.6                  2.0
Fiscal Year 1996/97
December 31         3.3                  5.9                  5.0
June 30             4.7                 10.6                  9.0
Fiscal Year 1997/98
December 31         5.7                 16.3                 14.0
June 30            10.6                 26.9                 23.0
Fiscal Year 1998/99
December 31        10.6                 37.5                 33.0
June 30            11.7                 49.2                 43.0
Fiscal Year 1999/2000
December 31        11.7                 60.9                 53.0
June 30            11.0                 71.9                 63.0
Fiscal Year 2000/01
December 31        11.0                 82.9                 72.0
June 30             9.2                 92.1                 80.0
Fiscal Year 2001/02
December31          9.2                101.3                 88.0
June 30             7.3                108.6                 94.0
Fiscal Year 2002/03
December 31         4.6                113.2                 98.0
June 30             1.8                115.0                100.0



1         ~~~~1995                            199S                               1997                1
ID   Task Namne                  Duration    Qtr4      tr       tr2     tr3      tr 4     tr     Qtr 2  Qtr 3       tr4     tr      Qtr2  Qtr 3  Qtr 4         Qtr 1
I    KUTIP                           832d                         1                                  1                                   1
2        PRE-PROCUREMENT             269d
3            Bank Processing         269d
4                Negotiations          5d                I
6                 Board Present        Od
6                Loan Signing          Od                                                 *2116
2/16~~~~~~~~~~
7                Credit Effective      Od                                            .C
8        SCHEDULE OF OUTST           189d
9            Clearance of Proc       129d          ..
10                Govemment            60d                                  >r
11                    Ministry of      2W                                                                                                                                 0
12                    Ministry of      20d
13                    Attorney         2Wd d1
14                World Bank           1Wd
15            Signing of Subsidiar     30d
16       PROJECT LAUNCH                35d                                                                                                                                rj
17            Project Launch Wor         d                                            .              16                                                                   3
13           Town visits               30d
19       KEY TMU STAFF APP           317d
20            Project Manager          70d
21            Deputy Project Man       70d          _a.
Task                                   Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress
Date: FnT 1222/95                     Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone  )



3      a  t         a ;                       x  ;        t §    i     i   {    a
'liiii g § jilu f XUlili  jil M X
!~~~~ !  J                                         I  J 
.   .     ........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....     ..     .....     .    .......... ........................................................    .. . . . . . ..................................................  ...   .......... . .   . . .
0  0  r_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
II~       SWIAI3                                                                     £MI SI AM0XH NIYNQS
o    3
a  c0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
S3IIIAIIJV 3SVHd ISdI4 A33X AO JMVHZ) NOI1VIN3IN3l1JWl
5 Jo z g(
wy7MV



1             1991               1              1996      I                       1997              1 _
ID   Task Name                 Duration   Qtr 4 |trO1 Qtr2    Qtr3     Qtr4  ! Q r1           tr    Qtr3    QtrJ4 Otr1                 Qtr3    T  4    Qtr I
69           Maintenance Plan       28Sd
60               Short listing      155d
61               Noobjection ID      15d
62               Reques for pr        Sd
63               Submsusion of      5oed
64               Evaluate & a        55d
73               Notifcation        20ed
74           Long Term Traffic      2USd         .                        _
76               Short listing      155d
76               No objection ID     15d
77               Request for pr       Sd
78               Submission of      Wed
79               Evaluate & a        55d
89               Notification       20ed         ..
89           Long Terrn Invest      2SSd                                         E  _
90               Short listing      155d                          _ 
91               Noobjection ID      15d                                                                                                                            >
92               Request for pr       5d
93               Submission of      60ed
94               Evaluate & a   66d
103               Notification    2_ed
Task                _        _       Summary                   _Rolled Up Progresso 
Project: KUTIP                      Progress                              Rolled Up Task _
Date: Fri 12122/95
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 



1996                             1996            :                1997
ID   Task Namne                Duration   Qtr 4    Qtr 1    Qtr2    Qtr3    Qtr4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2    Qtr3    Qtr4 4  Qtr 1 |Qtr2  |Qtr3  |Qtr4    Qtr1
104          Information Techn      273d                                                 -           p
105              Short listing      139d
106              No objection ID     15d
107              Request for pr       5d                                         .
108              Submission of      60ed
109              Evaluate & a        l5d
118              Notification       20ed
119          Road Inventory,        326d                                                              _
120              Short listing      161 d
121              No objection ID     15d
122              Request for pr       5d         .
123              Submission of      60ed
124              Evaluate & a        6id
133              Notification       20ed
134          Financial Complia      374d              X
135              Short listing      161 d        .                                                                                                                (/
136              No objection ID     15d
137              Request for pr       5d
138              Submission of      60ed
139              Evaluate & a        66 d                                 ..
14U              Notification       20ed
Task                _        _       Summary                  _Rolled Up ProgressoX
Project KUTIP1                      Progress                             Rolled Up Task _ 
Milestone        *Rolled Up Milestone O



_                                       |      ~      ~~~~       ~       ~       ~       ~~~~      ~       ~        ~~~ 1995  |1996  |1997  
ID   Task Namne                  Duration   Qtr 4    Qtr I    Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2    Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1    Qtr 2  |Qtr 3    Qtr 4    Qtr 1
149           Training and Staff D   52ew                         1                                  19
150       PHASE I CIVIL WORKS        768d                                                                                                                      _
151           Annual Routine Mai     730ed                                                                                                                im
152           Annual Routine M       218d                                      _
153               Prepare biddin       30d
164               Prequalificati      63d                                                  r    r
1SO               Bidding             30ed
161               Evaluate&a           36d
163               Notification        30ed                                                                -
169           Periodic, Rehab.,      406d                  _
170               Prequalificati     283d                                         _
177               Review stand        t50d                              r 
10               Bidding             60ed
181               Evaluate & a        48d
193               Notifcation         30ed
189           SSATP Pilot Inves      305d                                                    __
193           Traffic Manageme       466d                                                          W-
263       GOODS PROCUREME             440d                                      __
264           Traffic Signals         235d                                      _
279           Infomation Techn        269d                                                              _
Task                 __Summary                                                Rolled Up ProgressoX
Prjet: Fn1222/9 Progress                                                    Rolled Up Taskx
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 5
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND ANNOTATED OUTLINE
OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN MANUAL
INTRODUCTION    Objectives of the Manual
Project Contact Address
Summary Project Objectives
Summary Project Description and Components
Project budget and candidate list of works by town
SECTION 1.          STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECTION 2.          LEGAL AGREEMENTS
a. Development Credit Agreement
b. Subsidiary Agreements with 26 project towns
SECTION 3.          PROJECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
a. Roles and responsibilities of MLG
b. Roles and responsibilities of TMU
- road improvements
- NMT improvements
c. Roles and responsibilities of project towns
- road improvements
- NMT improvements
d. Employer, engineer and engineer's representatives
e. Construction supervision consultants
SECTION 4.          PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES AND ARRANGEMENTS
a. IDA procurement guidelines (attachments)
b. GOK procurement guidelines
c. Methods of procurement for specific project items and gross values
- civil works
- goods
- consulting services
d. Procurement process, procurement cycle and expected lapsed time
e. Standard procurement documents
- civil works
- goods
- consulting services
SECTION 5.          CONSOLIDATED PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
(showing key steps, start date, milestones, time table and outputs on a CPM chart)
a. pre-procurement actions and time table
b. schedule of outstanding actions



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 5
- first phase investments design
- second phase investments design
- clearance of procurement documents
- finalization of terms of references
c. project launch
- schedule of town visits
- pre-project launch workshop
d. steps and schedule of key staff appointments
e. steps and schedule of civil works contract awards by component
- annual routine maintenance contracts
- first phase periodic maintenance contracts
- first phase improvement works
- SSATP pilot investments
- traffic management infrastructure
f. steps and schedule of goods procurement
g. steps and schedule of engagement of key consultancy services
- construction supervision consultants
- maintenance management and works inspectorate
- maintenance planning and procurement management
- long term traffic management study for Nairobi
- long term investment study for Mombasa
- technical assistance on traffic management
- information technology training and technical assistance
- mapping update
- financial audit
- staff development and training
h. timetable and arrangements for preparing "Implementation
Completion Report (ICR)"
SECTION 6.          CIVIL WORKS PROGRAM
a. routine maintenance
- annual work plan for each project town (km and value)
- distribution between force account and contracted works by town
- output and performance indicators
-- kms/quarter, value/quarter, annual MPR, etc.
b. periodic maintenance
- first phase work plan for each project town (annual and total)
-- list of roads covered showing name, km, value
(COSTAB)
- second phase work plan for each project town (annual and total)
-- list of roads covered showing name, km, value
(COSTAB)
- output and performance indicators
-- km/quarter; value/quarter, # of contracts, lapsed time for
contract award, etc.



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 5
c. rehabilitation
- first phase work plan for each project town (annual and total)
-- list of roads covered showing name, km, value
(COSTAB)
- second phase work plan for each project town (annual and total)
-- list of roads covered showing name, km,value
(COSTAB)
- output and performance indicators for first phase
-- km/quarter; value/quarter, # of contracts, lapsed time for
contract award, etc.
d. improvements
- first phase work plan for each project town (annual and total)
-- sub-projects, km, value (COSTAB)
- second phase work plan for each project town (annual and total)
-- sub-projects, km, value (COSTAB)
- output and performance indicators for first phase
-- km/quarter; value/quarter, # of contracts, lapsed time for
contract award, etc.
e. SSATP pilot investments
- first phase work plan for each project town (annual and total)
-- sub-projects, value (COSTAB)
- second phase work plan for each project town (annual and total)
-- sub-projects, value (COSTAB)
- output and performance indicators for first phase
f traffic management infrastructure
- first phase work plan for each project town (annual and total)
-- sub-projects, value (COSTAB)
- second phase work plan for each project town (annual and total)
-- sub-projects, value (COSTAB)
-- output and performance indicators for first phase
SECTION 7.          CAPACITY BUILDING
a. maintenance management and works inspectorate
- component objectives
- Maintenance Performance Rating system (MPR)
- consultant terms of reference (draft agreed)
- component budget (annual, total)
- consultant selection and appointment timetable
- consultant performance review guidelines
- outputs and schedule
b. maintenance planning and procurement management
- component objectives
- consultant terms of reference (draft agreed)
- component budget (annual, total)
- consultant selection and appointment timetable
- consultant performance review guidelines
- outputs and schedule



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 5
c. traffic management and coordination
- component objectives
- consultant terms of reference (draft agreed)
- component budget (annual, total)
- consultant selection and appointment timetable
- consultant performance review guidelines
- outputs and schedule
d. NMT management and coordination
- component objectives
- expanded PPU terms of reference
- component budget (annual, total)
- outputs and schedule
e. training and staff development
- component objectives
- training proposals, workshops, study tours (etc.) (draftagreed)
- PPU training on NMT
- consultant terms of reference (draft agreed)
- component budget (annual, total)
- consultant selection and appointment timetable
- consultant performance review guidelines
- outputs and schedule
f. mapping
- component objectives
- consultant terms of reference (draft agred)
- component budget (annual, total)
- consultant selection and appointment timetable
- consultant performance review guidelines
- outputs and schedule
SECTION 8.          PROGRAM AND POLICY STUDIES
a. Nairobi long-term traffic management study
- component objectives
- consultant terms of reference (draft agreed)
- component budget (annual, total)
- consultant selection and appointment timetable
- consultant performance review guidelines
- outputs and schedule
b. Mombasa long-term investment study
- component objectives
- consultant terms of reference (draft agreed
- component budget (annual, total)
- consultant selection and appointment timetable
- consultant performance review guidelines
- outputs and schedule



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 5
SECTION 9.          PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
a. construction supervision consultants
- component objectives
- consultant terms of reference (draft agreed)
- component budget (annual, total)
- consultant selection and appointment timetable
- consultant performance review guidelines
- outputs and schedule
b. financial compliance and audit support
- component objectives
- consultant terms of reference (draft agreed)
- component budget (annual, total)
- consultant selection and appointment timetable
- consultant performance review guidelines
- outputs and schedule
c. information technology
- component objectives
- information technology plan
- consultant terms of reference (draft agreed)
- contracts tracking system (CTS)
- consultant terms of reference for CTS (draft agreed)
- list and value of equipment purchase
- component budget (annual, total)
- consultant selection and appointment timetable
- consultant performance review guidelines
- outputs and schedule
SECTION 10.          REVIEWS AND PROGRESS REPORTING
a. impact indicators
b. sample format of quarterly progress report
- output and performance indicators by component, actual vs. target
- problems encountered
- remedial actions taken
- key action for next quarter
c. schedule of semi-annual review meetings by all project towns
d. schedule of annual routine maintenance performance reviews
e. schedule of mid-term review



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
SELECTION AND DESIGN STATUS OF MAJOR CIVIL WORKS COMPONENTS
FIRST PHASE (YEARS 1 - 3)
Town(s)                  Periodic                 Rehabilitation           Improvements
Nairobi                  All designs complete.    All designs complete.     Design for Likoni new
link outstanding. Other
designs to be modified to
affordable standards, to
be completed before year
l________________________________ _________________________________  1.
Mombasa                  All designs complete.    Most design complete.    No roads yet fully
Additional roads of about  evaluated. Design to be
30 km to be agreed with   completed before year 1.
Town and designed
before year I
Kisumu/Eldoret           All designs complete.    All designs complete.    No roads yet fully
evaluated. Design to be
completed before year 1.
Other 22 Towns           All designs complete.    All designs complete.    N/A
SECOND PHASE (YEARS 4 - 6)
Town(s)                  Periodic                 Rehabilitation            Improvements
Nairobi                  Roads to be identified in   Long list available    Preliminary evaluation
year 2 with design by    Selection in year I with    complete. Design by
NCC subject to           design by CSC            CSC during years 1-2
satisfactory performance                                                  l
Mombasa                  Roads to be identified in   Long list available   Evaluated roads to be
year 2 with design by    Selection in year I with    designed by CSC in years
CSC                      design by CSC            1-2
Kisumu/Eldoret           Roads to be identified in   Long list available   Evaluated roads to be
year 2 with design by    Selection in year 2 with    designed by CSC in years
CSC in year 3            design by CSC in years 2-  1-2
3                                                l
Other 22 Towns           Roads to be identified in   Long list available   N/A
year 2 with design by    Selection in year I with
CSC in year 3            design by CSC in year 2-
3
CSC: Construction Supervision Consultants
NCC: Nairobi City Council



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 1
Project Implementation and Reporting Structure
in T___ransport PoicyC----d------                                   -          ML_ __ -                                    __ - - --ML il--- - ---------
Project-d                               
Manager                   e    R         /
Mrnntennistrt-     Deputy Project                   Depuly Projec                                                Deput  M                      itna
Manager                          Mager                                                     (Fnace an d.. (  -   .
.....Mn                                                (Contacts & Works _,    '                                      Ad,minitration) 
....          nesoc                         Mg!. Section)                                                      I\                     5W* /
Assistant Proect                 Assistant Project                         _      je                          Ad_   ntstraton'
M anagers                        Managers                                 Accountant                           Officer
(2)                              (2)                                       (1)                                (1)
A                                 A
Account'                          Assistanlt
Assistanst                      AdmInsitiaraito
/. .,.  (1f) ficr
~ -  SIzpervsiuMtD--
.s: . ... .-,-,    ..--  ..
- ;_,,                                                      Account
Clerks
(3)
VACANCIES TO BE FILLED
^ Deputy PM (Finance & Admin.) - 1
0 Project Account - I
' Administration OMeer - I
' Amcount Assistant I
' Assistant Administration Officer - I
' Account Clerks - 3
Secretary/Copy Typist -4                                                                                         LEGEND
' Computer Operator - I
' Drivers - 2
' Messengers - 2                                                                                                  Contracted  out services and/or
' Cieanero - 2                                                                                                                      out- 
C'mner - 2        Technical Assistance Inputs
oaeb    Decision making and/or participating
<=> ~mechanisms



ANNEX 12
Page I of I
IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITY MATRIX FOR CIVIL WORKS
YEARS 1 - 3 ( First Phase)
Town              Function          Routine         Periodic      Rehabilitation   Imporvements
Maintenance    Maintenance
Employer          Town *          MLG **          MLG **           MLG **
Nairobi           Design            Town *           Town *       TMU/CSC ***   TMU/CSC *
Supervision       Town *          Town *        TMU/CSC *       TMU/CSC
Employer          Town *          MLG **          MLG **           MLG **
Medium Town      Design             Town *       TMU/CSC ***   TMU/CSC *          TMU/CSC *
Supervision       Town *       TMU/CSC          TMU/CSC *       TMU/CSC *
Employer          MLG **          MLG **          MLG **           MLG **
Small Town        Design         TMU/CSC *       TMU/CSC *        TMU/CSC *       TMU/CSC *
Supervision    TMU/CSC ***   TMU/CSC            TMU/CSC ***   TMU/CSC
YEARS 4 - 6 (Second Phase) WITH GOOD PERFORMANCE IN YEARS 1 - 3
Town              Function          Routine         Periodic      Rehabilitation   Improvements
Maintenance    Maintenance
Employer          Town *          MLG **          MLG **           MLG **
Nairobi           Design            Town *           Town *          Town *       TMU/CSC *
Supervision       Town *          Town *           Town *       TMU/CSC
Employer          Town *          MLG **          MLG **           MLG **
Medium Town      Design             Town *          Town *        TMU/CSC *       TMU/CSC *
Supervision       Town *          Town *        TMU/CSC *       TMU/CSC
Employer          Town *          MLG **          MLG **           MLG **
Small Town        Design            Town *       TMU/CSC *        TMU/CSC *       TMU/CSC *
ISupervision        Town         TMU/CSC *       TMU/CSC *        TMU/CSC
YEARS 4 - 6 (Second Phase) WITH POOR PERFORMANCE IN YEARS I - 3
Town              Function          Routine         Periodic      Rehabilitation   Improvements
Maintenance    Maintenance
Employer          Town *          MLG **          MLG **           MLG **
Nairobi           Design            Town *          Town *        TMU/CSC *       TMU/CSC *
Supervision       Town *       TMU/CSC          TMU/CSC ***   TMU/CSC
Employer          MLG *           MLG **          MLG **           MLG **
Medium Town       Design         TMU/CSC *       TMU/CSC *        TMU/CSC ***   TMU/CSC *
| Supervision   TMU/CSC ***   TMU/CSC *          TMU/CSC ***   TMU/CSC
Employer          MLG **          MLG **          MLG **           MLG **
Small Town       Design          TMU/CSC ***   TMU/CSC *          TMU/CSC ***   TMU/CSC *** 11
| Supervision   TMU/CSC          TMU/CSC         TMU/CSC *        TMU/CSC ***|
*      to be monitored by TMU with assistance from the A1aintenance Management/lInspectorate Consultants.
* *    AfLG as the Employer designates TMU as the Engineer (Prolect Manager).
* **    Construction Supervision Consultants (CSCs) function as Engineer's Representative for executing the
works, reporting to the TMU.



ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 3
SUPERVISION PLAN AND STAFF INPUT
1.    The Borrower's supervision activities would be carried out by the Ministry of Local Government
(MLG). MLG's Traffic Management Unit (TMU) will coordinate project implementation among the
local authorities. Their supervisory functions would involve the following:
(a)    initial review, recording and forwarding of:
(i)    all procurement orders
(ii)   all disbursement requests
(iii)  special accounts expenditures/reimbursements
(b)    preparation of an annual project implementation budget
(c)    preparation of bidding and other project contract documents
(d)    preparation of monthly financial statements
(e)    preparation of semi-annual progress reports to IDA in February/March
of each year on on all aspects of project implementation
(f)    preparation of annual project accounts
(g)    monitor key performance indicators
(h)    arranging for the annual audits of project accounts and SOEs
(i)    liaising with all Bank supervision missions
2.    In addition to the regular supervision missions to be carried out by IDA in accordance with the
schedule set out below, IDA staff would spent time at headquarters on dealing with correspondence,
reviewing and commenting on procurement documents, disbursement requests, half-yearly reports and
audited accounts. The amount of time estimated is as follows:
HQ Time       Field Time    Total Time
Project Year 1       4 sws         15 sws        19 sws
Project Year 2       8 sws         24 sws        32 sws
Project Year 3       7 sws         27 sws        34 sws
Project Year 4       7 sws         27 sws        34 sws
Project Year 5       5 sws         24 sws        29 sws
Project Year 6       5 sws         24 sws        29 sws
Project Year 7       4 sws         15 sws        19 sws
3.     Mid-term Review by the MLG and IDA would be held not later than March 31, 1999. The terms
of reference and background papers for the review would be prepared by the MLG with IDA staff
assistance as may be necessary. The principal objective of the implementation review would be to
examine the status of implementation of the project with the objective of defining the Second Phase
Program (based on actual perfornance of the project towns), progress in procurement, disbursements,
construction and institutional and policy reforms. It would also include a review of quantitative and
qualitative review anticipated from the project.



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT (STAFF WEEKS) INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Fiscal Year  Approximate                      Activity                     Expected Skills                         Staff
Date                                                                                           Input
FY1995/96          March 1996                 Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                       15.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
FY1996/97          October 1996               Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                       12.0
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
March 1997                Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                       12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
FY1997/98          October 1997               Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                       12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
March 1998                Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                       15.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Enviornmental Specialist
FY1998/99          October 1998               Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                       15.0
Highway Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
March 1999                Mid-term Review              Financial Analyst                       12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
FY1999/00          October 1999               Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                       12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
March 2000                Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                       12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
FY2000/01          October 2000               Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                       12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
March 20001               Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                       12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
FY2001/02          October 2001               Supervision Mission          Financial Analyst                      12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
Fiscal Year  Approximate                        Activity                       Expected Skills                           Staff
Date                                                                                                Input
March 2002                  Supervision                   Financial Analyst                         12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
FY2002/03           October 2002                Supervision                    Financial Analyst                         12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist
March 2003                  Preparation work for ICR      Financial Analyst                         12.0
Transport Engineer
Maintenance Mgt. Spec.
Operations Analyst
Procurement Specialist



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 1
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
FY      FY      FY     FY    FY       FY      FY     FY
Performance Indicators    19961   1997   1998   1999  2000   2001   2002   2003
1    Maintenance
Performance Rating          0.5   0.55       0.6    0.7   0.75     0.8   0.85     0.9
(MPR)2                                          I__
2    % of urban roads in good     20      25      30      40     45      50     55      60
3    International                 12      10       7      6      5     4.5      4       3
Roughness Index (IRI)
4    Available
maintenance funds as a
percentage of maintenance    30      35      40     50     55       60     65      70
requirements for urban
roadss
5    Urban roads maintained
(routine maintenance)       300   2150   2225   2315   2390   2560   2680   2775
(Kms per year)
6    Urban recarpeted
(periodic maintenance)       40     100     170   200    230    320    370    400
Kms)
7    Urban roads rehabilitated     10    100      150   200    240    300    350    400
Kms)
8    Capacity improvements in       0       0       5     15    20       40     60      75
(cumulative Kms)                        I
Estimated 3 months of implementation during FY1996
2   MPR is an aggregate indicator derived on the basis of quantitative output of maintenance works, the quality
of works completed and the appropriateness of the works relative to the established priorities. The MPR for a
particular local authority will be determined based on periodic maintenance performance audits under the
project.



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 9
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF FIRST PHASE INVESTMENTS
BACKGROUND
The major part of the civil works component of KUTIP can be classified into four types:
(a)    routine maintenance comprising carriageway repair, drain cleaning etc.;
(b)    periodic maintenance comprising surface treatments or thin overlays on sealed roads and
regravelling of unsealed roads;
(c)    rehabilitation of badly deteriorated pavements by means of structural overlays or addition of
granular base with surface treatment or asphalt wearing course;
(d)    improvement of existing gravel or earth pavements to sealed standards;
(e)    capacity improvement by means of dualling and/or redesign ofjunctions.
Operations (a) through (c) will take place in all 26 project towns, (d) in most smaller towns and, (e) mainly in
Nairobi and Mombasa.
The civil works, apart from routine maintenance, will be executed by contracts awarded in two tranches. Design
for most of the first tranche works, spanning project years I - 3, has been completed by local consultants who
also supplied the data needed to make rudimentary economic evaluations of the works in (b) through (e) above.
The analyses of periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement works used a simplified model derived
from HDM-I and compared 20 year costs with the project and subsequent periodic maintenance against a
minimum maintenance scenario, with road user savings being the main quantified benefit. By including future
maintenance, the analyses incorporate the future benefits from the institutionalization of adequate capacity and
funding for road maintenance and not just the immediate benefits from project funded civil works.
Separate analyses were made for the capacity improvements where increased travel speed was the main
quantified benefit.
PERIOD MAINTENANCE, REHABILITATION AND CAPACITY IMPROVEMENT
ROAD DATABASE
Data on the existing road conditions was collected as part of the design process and included:
road length and width
existing surface type
pavement strength expressed as modified structural number
pavement serviceability expressed as International Roughness Index; this was based on subjective
judgement rather than metered measurements using the following guidelines:
2.0           new asphalt pavement
2.5           new surface dressed pavement
4 - 5         new murram pavement or asphalt pavement in fair condition



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 9
6 - 8         murrarn pavement with regular grading or poor asphalt pavement
8 - 12        murram pavement with irregular maintenance or bad asphalt
12 - 20       pavements receiving little or no maintenance
12 hour classified traffic volume counts were made on all roads using five vehicle groups:
cars
light goods (pickup)
medium trucks (2-axle)
heavy trucks (3-axle or trailers)
buses (including matatu)
A traffic growth rate of 5% was used for all evaluations.
PAVEMENT DETERIORATION AND MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS
Pavement deterioration, both with and without project, was estimated using an expression derived from the HDM
III model for sealed roads:
IRI(t)  =     e o023t [ IRI(o) + 263 (I + MSN)-5 NE4(t)]
where: IRI(t)  =     IRI in year t since last treatment
IRI(o) =      HI for existing pavement or immediately after treatment
MSN   =       the modified structural number of the pavement
NE4(t) =      cumulative axle loading to year
For murram pavements, it was assumed that they receive irregular maintenance (occasional grading and local
patching) and have an average IRI of 12. For earth surfaces an IRI of 20 mv/km was adopted.
The IRI after different treatments was taken as:
reconstruction with a/c  2.0
reconstruction with s/d  2.5
overlay              2.5
resealing                   reduction of 0.5 from pre-treatment value
Following the initial operation, periodic maintenance policies were simulated in the "with project" case. The
following were thought to be appropriate for Kenya in the foreseeable future:
high traffic volume (> 5,000 AADT)  overlay in year 10
medium traffic volume (1,000 - 5,000)   seal in years 8 and 15
low traffic volume (< 1,000)        seal in year 10 and 19
For murram roads, regravelling was applied in years 7 and 14.



ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 9
Unit costs of future maintenance were supplied by the design consultants, reflecting regional variations in the
costs of asphalt and gravelling works.
ROAD USER COSTS
For the evaluation of pavement works, vehicle operating cost expressions were derived using the Bank's HDM-
VOC computer program. This program contains the same models as used in HDM-IlH and allows the user to
enter unit costs and various parameters that govern VOC under different road conditions (geometry, roughness).
In the context of pavement rehabilitation and maintenance only the relationship with roughness was of interest as
the geometry (alignment, gradient) would not change. The input data is shown in Table 1.
Table 1
Key Input Data to HDM-VOC Model
Vehicle Type
Item
Car          Pickup       Med. Truck  Hvy Truck   Bus
Annual utilization (km)     20,000       60,000        62,500       50,000       60,000
Annual utilization (hours)  1,000        2,000         2,500        2,500        3,000
Hourly utilization ratio    0.60          0.85         0.85         0.85         0.75
Average service life (year)  8           6             6            6            10
Average age (km)            80,000        100,000      150,000      150,000      300,000
Passengers per vehicle      2            6             0            0            40
New vehicle price (Ksh)     965,000       1,037,000    1,380,000    3,900,000    2,780,000
Fuel cost (Ksh/l)           16            16           15           15           15
Tyre cost (Ksh/tyre)         1,620        4,260        5,220        13,320       15,000
Crew cost (Ksh/h)           28            36           72           106          54
Pass. time cost (Ksh/h)     68            13           0            0            13
Maint. labour cost (Ksh/h)   125          125          155          155          155
Interest rate (% p.a.)       15%          15%          15%          15%          15%
HDM-VOC will output a table giving VOC (KSh/km) for a range of roughness (2 - 15 ni/kin). This table was
inported into a spreadsheet and a regression analysis made to give a simple expression of the forn:
VOC = a + b IRI + c IR12
where: a, b, c are parameters for a particular vehicle group
VOC is vehicle operating cost in KSh/lcn



ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 9
The vehicle groups used for VOC were the same as those given above for traffic data. Table 2 below shows the
parameters derived from the HDM-VOC model output.
Table 2
VOC Expression Parameters
Vehicle type               a           b          c
Car                         8.48       0.069       0.029
Pickup                      8.13       0.130       0.031
Medium Truck                9.14       0.429       0.007
Heavy Truck                25.08       0.877       0.022
Bus                        23.72       0.025       0.046
The annual roughness predicted by the deterioration and maintenance effects models is applied to give the annual
VOC for each vehicle group. This is then multiplied by the volume for each group for the year; base year volume
plus growth rate.
For the evaluation of capacity improvements, average vehicle speed was related to traffic volume and type of
acility - 2 lane or four lane divided highway:
V = MIN(75 - 0.000683 (AADT - 10,000), 60)         four lane
V = MM N(497,430 / AADT - 1.7,60)           :      two lane
These expressions were derived from the observed speeds shown in Table 3.
Table 3
Observed Speeds for different Traffic Volumes
AADT                   Speed (km/h) on Facility
7m             2x7m
10,000                 48                75
30,000                  15               62
50,000                 8.6               46
70,000                  5                34



ANNEX 15
Page 5 of 9
The HDM-VOC model was again used to output a sensitivity table, this time of VOC against speed. Regressions
were made for a relationship of the form:
VOC= a + bN
where: VOC is vehicle operating cost in Ksh/km
a, b are parameters specific to the vehicle type
V is the predicted speed
The values for parameters a and b are shown in Table 4.
Table 4
Parameters for VOC/Speed Relationships
Vehide Type                       a        b
Car                          5.95          253.9
Pickup                       5.35          253.6
Medium Truck                 9.25           129.8
Heavy Truck                  21.76         371.2
Bus                          12.71         717.9
RESULTS OF EVALUATIONS
The analyses yielded ERRs ranging from under 10% (improvement of roads serving low income areas in smnall
towns) to over 100% (rehabilitation of high volume roads in the larger towns). It was not possible to quantify
benefits for some civil works using traditional techniques; this included footpath construction independent of road
works and improvement of bus stations. The works for which benefits were quantified comprised about 80% of
the first tranche and showed an overall EIRR of4l%. Costs and benefits were adjusted for taxes and duties.
Sensitivity testing was made separately for the pavement rehabilitation anc capacity imporvement projects as the
two analyses were sensitive to different parameters. The results of the sensitiviey analyses are given in Tables 5
and 6.



ANNEX 15
Page 6 of 9
Table 5
Sensitivity Testing of Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance Projects
Parameter Values                                                 ERR
a    Base values                                                 55%
b     Construction costs + 20%                                   47%
c     No future periodic maintenance                             53%
d     VOC benefits - 20%                                         46%
e     Traffic growth rate zero                                   45%
r   b+c+d+e                                                      30% 
Table 6
Sensitivity Testing of Capacity Improvement Projects
Parameter Values                                                 ERR
a    Base values                                                 28%
b     Construction costs + 20%                                   25%
c    Passenger time values - 20%                                 24%
d    Maximun vehicle speeds 50 km/h                              26%
e    Traffic growth rate zero                                    12%
f    b+c+d+e                                                     4%
Combining the worst case scenario for both types of project gave an overall EIRR of 18%.
|-                         ROUTINE MAINTENANCE INVESTMENTS
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE ROUTINE MAINTENANCE COMPONENT
The length of urban roads in Kenya given in the SAR is 6,000kn of which 2,000 are paved and of the total 62%
(3,700km) are in Nairobi, Kisunu and Mombasa (all project towns). It is reasonable to assume that nearly all of
the paved roads are included in the project.
Network-w'ide traffic data is not available but an analysis of data for the first tranche rehabilitation sections,
adjusted for unpaved, gives the following approximate distribution by traffic volume for paved roads.



ANNEX 15
Page 7 of 9
Table 6
Estimated Lengths of Paved Urban Roads
AADT Range                          Length (km)
< 500                              300
500 - 1,000                        400
1,000 - 3,000                      600
> 3,000                            700
ROUTINE MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS
Routine road maintenance covers a range of operations which yield different types of benefits. The draft form of
contract for routine maintenance works groups the operations as follows:
Table 7
Effects of Routine Maintenance Operations
Roadway Element                          Benefit                             Quantifiable
Carriageway                              VOC                                 Yes
Footpaths and cycle tracks               Pedestnan comfort                   No
Kerbs and channels                        Various                            No
Drainage systemns                        Pavement structure                  Yes
Shoulders                                Pavement structure/VOC              Yes
Unpaved road grading                      VOC                                Yes
Signs and road markings                  Safety                              No
Grass and bush cutting                   Safety/aesthetics                   No
Street cleaning                          Aesthetic                           No
Lighting                                 Safety                              No
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
The evaluation concentrated on pothole patching and the effects on pavement structure (and hence performance)
of maintenance operations should as drain cleaning and shoulder maintenance. Assumed costs were Kshl,000
/m.2 for patching and KshlO,000 /km/year for drainage and shoulder maintenance.



ANNEX 15
Page 8 of 9
Four typical road sections were modelled for the four traffic ranges given above. For each traffic range an
appropriate pavement structure was defined and the annual development of potholes predicted using the HDM-III
models. It was assumed that drainage and shoulder operations would yield an increase in pavement structural
number of 0.5. Annual savings in road user costs were estimated using the HDM-derived model applied in
previous analyses of rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works. HDM models the annual development of
new potholes and the enlargement of existing potholes if left unpatched. To allow for enlargement in the without
maintenance case, a 10 year average of the cumulative potholed area was applied. The results were weighted by
the lengths in the network to give the following annualised benefit/cost ratios:
Table 8
Benefit Cost Ratio for Routine Maintenance
AADT                  b/c
250                   1.4
750                   1.2
1,500                 2.3
5,000                 21.1
Weighted average      9.9
It is apparent that the b/c is heavily dependent on traffic volume and a regression on the per km results gave the
following relationship:
b/c = 14 - 0.0096 AADT + 0.0000034 AADTA2 (R2 = 0.99)
The weighted average result is thus very sensitive to the assumptions about the proportion of roads with higher
traffic volumes. If the length of road in the highest traffic range is reduced by 50% and re-distributed among the
other three ranges, the weighted b/c falls to 6.1, still exceptionally high.
The routine maintenance component of the project is estimated at $24 million over 5 years, equivalent to an
average annual expenditure of Ksh50,000 per km. the annualised costs in the above analysis represented only
Ksh14,000 per km; the remaining expenditure will be on operations whose benefits lack sufficiently robust
models to allow quantification. If the whole maintenance cost were included in the analysis without any furither
quantification of benefits, the b/c ratio would be 1.7.
NET PRESENT VALUE
Table 9 below sunmarizes net present value calculations, using a 12% discount rate for both the base case and
the worst case scenario:



ANNEX 15
Page 9 of 9
Table 9
Net Present Value Analysis
(1995 US$ million)
... ....... . . - BaseCase                              WorstCase .......... C
Year        Cost   1Benefft NeCashC             CoSt   IBeNefit  Net Cas
1         10.152    0.000    -10.152           12.202     0.000   -12.202
2         10.151    3.170      -6.981          12.201      2.149   -10.052
3         10.150    6.528      -3.623          12.200      4.271    -7.929
4         10.149   10.253       0.103          12.199      6.459    -5.740
5         -0.005   14.386      14.390          -0.005      8.718     8.723
6         -0.005   15.802      15.806          -0.005      8.901     8.906
7         -0.029   17.534      17.563          -0.029      9.189     9.218
8          0.216   19.459      19.243          -0.029      9.491     9.520
9          0.216   21.699      21.483          -0.029      9.808     9.837
10         0.615   24.188      23.573          -0.029    10.141    10.170
11         0.638   27.110      26.472          -0.006    10.488    10.494
12         0.393   30.349      29.955          -0.006    10.849    10.855
13         0.393   33.841      33.447          -0.006     11.224     11.230
14        -0.030   37.719      37.749          -0.030    11.614    11.644
15         0.215   41.876      41.661           -0.030    12.021    12.051
16         0.215   46.655      46.441           -0.030    12.449    12.479
17         0.214   51.991      51.777          -0.030    12.898    12.928
18         0.238   57.946      57.708          -0.007    13.370    13.377
19         0.186   64.553      64.368          -0.007    13.863      13.870
20         0.186   71.764      71.578           -0.008    14.367    14.375
WPV      _ %    31.721  137.622    10               36.9B .--              .7I
ERR                   4-%                   .18%... ........
.          .    -   .  : -:: .41          .. ..  -.. .    ...--



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PLAN
Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
Natural environment:
(i)    The project requires removal of some trees. Care has been taken at the design
stage to avoid significant trees where possible. Designs and contract documents
include provision to replace trees and expand plantings on improved roads.
(ii)    Drainage effects on erosion and streams: In most cases, road works will not
increase drainage runoff, and the quality of drainage facilities and protection
devices will be improved. Where water flows will be channeled or increased,
designs will ensure appropriate environmental protection. Contract clauses require
adequate measures to prevent erosion, siltation and drainage protection in all
works.
(iii)   Wildlife: No impacts are anticipated on these existing roads in established urban
areas.
(iv)   Sensitive roadside environments: These are not an issue in these projects, as roads
are within existing reserves and no known sensitive environmental areas are
affected.
Human and social environment:
(i)    No land acquisition or permanent resettlement is expected.
(ii)    Pedestrians and road safety: Special emphasis is placed on improving pedestrian
facilities on all project roads, through construction and rehabilitation of footpaths
and crossings, and development of improved design and maintenance standards for
these facilities. The traffic management component will provide funds for
identifying and upgrading specific problem locations, such as pedestrian crossings,
bus stops and intersections - with an emphasis on traffic congestion, public
transport, pedestrians, and safety. The non-motorized component of the project
provides specific funds for non-motorized transport facilities and supporting
services, including improvements to off-road paths.
Potential Short-term Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
(i)    Road work activities will have temporary impacts, both on the road and at quarries,
borrow pits, material storage sites and work camps. Contract clauses have been
reviewed to ensure that responsibilities are clearly defined for environmental
protection and site clean-up.



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
(ii)    Roadside land uses: temporary provisions will be made for roadside access during
works. Some informal kiosks operating in the road reserve will be temporarily
affected during works, and alternative sites will be made available by the
municipalities during these periods.
(iii)   Temporary disruptions of road service during works can cause particular problems
in urban areas. The location and duration of road closures, deviations and side-
tracks will be considered in bidding documents and contract clauses, and in some
cases specific traffic management plans will be required, to minimize these
impacts.
Institutional Strengthening and Monitoring Arrangements
The government and consultants were assisted during project preparation with the identification and
recording of potential environmental impacts for all sub-project sites. Monitoring of environmental
actions and responsibilities will be included as a specific responsibility of supervision consultants.
Further assistance with review of contract clauses, designs and design standards related to
environmental impacts and mitigation is included in the tasks of the technical advisor responsible
for strengthening Ministry of Local Government procedures in the early years of the project.






IBRD 26340
KENYA
V.-.--) __.                                           URBAN TRANSPORT
I NFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Ad Ab,ab,
(  'I                               /                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WAIR
B        LNG0-  q ELDORET
_ _(KAKAMEGA\                 K
RKABSABET        \         NYAHURURU   NANOUK                                                                      /T
) ;~~~KISUMU I P<   
| -' % \ - ~~~~NAKURUt                                  ' NYERI a
,59'. IS j  C KERICHrO          X              3)           &'    /                                        i_GARISSA
| Q    HOYz    ,j,                          \                  < ERICHO 
NAROKNAIOB
S.-.. \                              .   gMIROKITUI                                                     \
T.  1-_.,.  Ol 
*S...                                   0 kiCHAKOS
NAIROBI    PROJECT TOWNS   N.-                           KAJIADO               WOTE|
NON MOTORIZED
PILOT PROJECTS                                                                                                              LAMU  9
:'       TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                                                    5'<
PROJECT GROUPS                                     --                    \sdLai
T~o,ioUho         S.\                                                         2                   Ocean
O'        M\AJOR TOWNS                                                                  \
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                              jVOI                                 '1+
MAIN ROADS                         fJ            TA X>                                \_
NATIONAL AIRPORTS                                             |                                                       ,                ETHIOPIA
*          INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                                                              ' % 5                                       ,/ > . O
0        50       100      150      200 K 1-,:    .r                                 I       KENYA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               I         I                                         5 ,                               Q '
0              0o            100 M                                                     8 R!iD \.
The bwodar,es colors. denoniinioos ond  any other ,formon                                                  T                                       TANZN A          0
shoa,,o  this nrap do not imply, on the port of The World Bsk,
Group.   n ol- dgment on the legal stotis of ony territory, or ony
eridorsemeiuf or ocnep-once of such boundaries                                                                                          .     AMBIA
NOVEMBER 1994









IMAGING
Report No:       13848
Type: SAR



