Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2811 KE
                        Development Credit Agreement
                  (Urban Transport Infrastructure Project)
                                   between
                              REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated February 13, 1996
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2811 KE
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 13, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower has submitted to the Association
a letter of sectoral policy, dated March 17, 1995, describing
a program of municipal reforms and related actions, objectives
and policies designed to improve the financial and operational
performance of the Borrower's local authorities (hereinafter
referred to as "the Program"), and declared its commitment to
the execution of the Program;
      (B)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association a
maintenance funding plan for its road sector, dated March 17,
1995, including progressive adjustments of the level of the
Road Maintenance Levy Fund (as hereinafter defined) and
increased annual budgetary allocations, designed to enable the
Borrower to provide full and sustainable road maintenance
funding by year 2000 (hereinafter referred to as the
Maintenance Funding Plan), and declared its commitment to the
execution of the Maintenance Funding Plan; and
      (C)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "first phase" means, in relation to the period of
implementation of the Project, the part thereof which precedes
the midterm review;
      (b)   "implementation plan" means the implementation plan,
dated April, 1995, submitted by the Borrower, giving details of
procurement, disbursement and other organizational arrangements,
including implementation performance indicators, agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Association for the implementation
of the Project; as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the implementation plan;
      (c)   "MLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local
Government;
      (d)   "participating project town" means a project town
which is party to a subsidiary agreement pursuant to Section
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a first letter of agreement, dated June 29, 1990,
between the Borrower and the Association, as amended by further
supplemental letters of agreement, dated March 26, 1993, and
June 9, 1994, respectively, between the Borrower and the
Association;
      (f)   "project towns" means all or any of the following
towns: Nairobi, Mombasa, Kajiado, Machakos, Makueni, Malindi,
Voi, Eldoret, Nakuru, Narok, Kabarnet, Kapsabet, Kericho,
Kitale, Kisumu, Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Homa Bay, Kisii, Embu,
Thika, Garissa, Murang'a, Meru and Nyeri;
      (g)   "Road Maintenance Levy Fund" or "Fund" means the Road
Maintenance Levy Fund established under the Borrower's Road
Maintenance Levy Fund Act (Act No. 9 of 1993), as same may be
amended from time to time;
      (h)   "second phase" means, in relation to the period of
implementation of the Project, the part thereof which follows
the midterm review;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (j)   "subsidiary agreement" means a subsidiary agreement
to be entered into pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedules to the subsidiary agreement;
Page  3
      (k)   "TMU" means the Transport Management Unit Of MLG; and
      (l)   "Works Inspectorate" means the Maintenance Management
and Works Inspectorate referred to under Part B.2 of the
Project.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventy seven million one hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 77,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against setoff,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual
date or at such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of
that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
Page  4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1
commencing February 1, 2006 and ending August 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August
1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of
the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under
the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MLG with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the Implementation
Plan.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Page  5
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall conclude a subsidiary
agreement with each of the project towns wishing to participate
in the implementation of activities financed under the Project
(hereinafter referred to as participating project towns), on
such terms and conditions as shall be mutually acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association, and giving details of all
implementation arrangements agreed between the parties,
including:
            (i)    the respective roles, responsibilities and
                   obligations of each of the parties under the
                   subsidiary agreement;
            (ii)   an agreed prioritized list of proposed works;
            (iii)  the allocated budget, scope of work,
                   schedule and method of implementation applicable
                   to each type of works;
            (iv)   the performance criteria to be used for
                   evaluation at the midterm review;
            (v)    financial management, accounting and reporting
                   requirements;
            (vi)   financial, legal and contractual obligations of
                   each of the parties;
            (vii)  conditions applicable to the utilization of
                   funds under the Credit;
            (viii) an initial rating of the maintenance
                   management capacity of the participating project
                   town;
            (ix)   an agreed formula for adjusting budget and works
                   allocations based on actual implementation
                   performance and maintenance performance rating;
                   and
            (x)    provisions to ensure that funds provided to
                   project towns by the Borrower to finance routine
                   road maintenance shall not be used for the
                   purchase of major equipment, or payment of
                   salaries or benefits, and that not less than 30
                   percent of routine maintenance works financed by
                   such funds shall be contracted out on an annual
                   basis.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of
the Subsidiary Agreements, in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit; and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive any of the Subsidiary Agreements, or any provision
thereof.
Page  6
      (c)   No approval for the award of any contract involving
a project town shall be given by the Borrower or the Association
unless the project town is party to a Subsidiary Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   (6) months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
Page  7
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and
      (b)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Maintenance Funding Plan, or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   an initial amount of not less than $1,670,000
equivalent has been released to MLG in accordance with paragraph
5 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (b)   all key positions listed in paragraph 1 (b) (i) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been filled in accordance with
the requirements of paragraph 1 (b) (ii) of the same Schedule;
and
      (c)   the Borrower has concluded subsidiary agreements with
not less than six project towns.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that subsidiary agreements
concluded pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement have
been duly authorized or ratified, as the case may be, by the
Borrower and the respective project towns, and are legally
binding upon the Borrower and the project towns in accordance
with their respective terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30007
            Nairobi
            Kenya
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINANCE                   22921
                   Nairobi                   MINFIN-KE
      For the Association:
Page  8
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                         By /s/ Benjamin Kipkorir
                                                  Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)      Civil works          45,150,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 60% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)      Consultancy
         services
         (a)  under Part B.2     940,000         80% for
         of the Project                          expenditures
                                                 incurred prior
                                                 to June 30, 1999,
Page  9
                                                 and 20% thereafter
         (b)  other           16,750,000         100%
(3)      Goods                 1,410,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures, and
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost) and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures for other
                                                 items procured locally
(4)      Training              1,480,000         100%
(5)      Operating costs       2,880,000         100%
(6)      Refunding of          1,340,000         Amounts due
         Project                                 pursuant to
         Preparation                             Section 2.02 (c)
         Advance                                 of this Agreement
(7)      Unallocated           7,150,000
                               ----------
                               77,100,000
         TOTAL                 ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means the incremental
operating costs incurred by MLG, TMU and participating project
towns under the Project on account of: (i) travel cost and
allowances, (ii) maintenance of vehicles, fuel and equipment,
and (iii) office rent, supplies and utilities.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for goods, works and consultant services (firms)
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and
consultant services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase economic
efficiency of the urban road network in project towns, (b) build
sustainable road maintenance capacity - institutional, financial
and engineering - of project towns and MLG through a program of
municipal reforms, and (c) target investments to benefit the
urban poor.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  10
Part A:     Road Transport Infrastructure Investment Program
1.    Annual routine road maintenance of about 2000 km of urban
streets in project towns in accordance with programs and
standards agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
2.    Periodic maintenance of about 400 km of priority paved
streets in project towns, including bituminous surface patching
and resealing; painting pavement markings; repair of drains,
culverts, footpaths, bicycle paths and street lighting.
3.    Rehabilitation of about 400 km of priority paved streets
in project towns, including major repairs of paved road surface
and road base; bituminous pavement sealing; pavement marking;
repair or reconstruction, as the case may be, of curbs,
sidewalks, drainage structures and facilities, footpaths and
bicycle paths; and maintenance of street lighting and traffic
signals, or provision thereof.
4.    Improvement of about 75 km of priority streets in primary
towns only, including construction of strategic missing street
sections and paving of unpaved road surfaces; selected pavement
and road widening; pavement strengthening through reconstruction
or bituminous overlays; related pavement marking; drainage
repairs and street lighting works; and, in the case of Nairobi
City only, traffic capacity and safety improvements at selected
street junctions, including construction of additional traffic
lanes and islands, related pavement markings, and lighting and
traffic signal improvements.
5.    Pilot works and investments specifically targeted to serve
non-motorized transport needs of the urban poor through an
integrated network approach, in addition to similar improvements
included as a part of periodic maintenance and road
rehabilitation works referred to in this Part.
Part B:     Institutional Capacity Building Program
1.    Strengthening of implementation capacity and maintenance
planning, budgeting and execution capacity of TMU and project
towns.
2.    Establishment of Maintenance Management and Works
Inspectorate within TMU for the purpose of verifying adequacy of
routine and periodic maintenance works for, or on behalf of,
local authorities.
3.    Establishment of a comprehensive maintenance management,
and budgeting and data base system of TMU, including technical
reviews of design standards and safety aspects, and rigorous
contract management systems.
4.    Provision of technical assistance to TMU and project towns
in traffic management and coordination, including traffic
engineering and transport planning.
5.    Training and staff development in maintenance planning and
management, and contract management, including seminars,
workshops and overseas training, for the benefit of the staff of
MLG/TMU and project towns.
6.    Developing a roads inventory and condition data base for
local authority roads.
Part C:     Program and Policy Studies
1.    Commissioning of a long-term traffic management study for
Nairobi to consider land use and environmental measures, and
transport infrastructure needs -- operational, institutional and
legislative.
Page  11
2.    Commissioning of an investment program study for Mombasa
to formulate a long-term sector investment strategy and needs,
including priority needs before year 2002, having regard to its
unique drainage problems.
Part D:     Project Implementation Support
1.    Preparation of detailed engineering designs for
construction works, and management and quality control of such
works.
2.    Establishment of an up-to-date information technology
system commensurate with project planning and management
requirements.
3.    Implementation of maintenance management, planning and
monitoring activities in all urban centers, through expanded use
of maintenance management and works inspectorate functions.
4.    Establishment of non-motorized transport planning and
implementation units in TMU and selected project towns.
Part E:     Project Preparation
      Preparation of a municipal infrastructure investment
program and pilot demonstration projects.
                                    * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional
procedures:
      (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this
Section, the Association's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
Page  12
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-
based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed
with the Association.
Page  13
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                           Implementation Program
1.    (a)   TMU shall, under the overall supervision of the
Permanent Secretary, MLG, be responsible for the day-to-day
management and implementation of the Project and, as such, shall
be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) supervision of maintenance
planning, budgeting, management and works inspection, (ii)
design review, (iii) procurement management and contract
administration, including procurement of civil works and
equipment contracts, and recruitment of consultants, (iv)
project accounting, financial management and control, (v)
information technology and management information systems, and
(vi) general administration and facilities management.
      (b)   Subject to such modalities as shall have been agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall:
            (i)     implement a staffing plan, acceptable to the
                    Association, which shall include provisions for
                    the following key positions: one Deputy Project
                    Manager (Finance and Administration), one
                    Project Accountant, one Administrative Officer,
                    one Account Assistant, one Assistant
                    Administration Officer, three Account Clerks
                    and one Computer Operator; and
            (ii)    ensure thereafter that all key positions listed
                    in paragraph (i) of this sub-paragraph shall be
                    kept filled at all times, along with the
                    requisite number of support staff positions, by
                    suitably qualified and experienced
                    professionals.
2.    The Borrower shall appoint six consultants to be deployed
on a regional basis to assist TMU in the supervision of
construction works under both the first phase and the second
phase of the Project; provided, however, that, during the second
phase, the Borrower may, where appropriate, delegate increasing
responsibility for implementation to individual project towns,
having regard to their demonstrated capacity and commitment to
provide maintenance of their respective road networks.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that all periodic maintenance,
and road rehabilitation and improvement works under the Project
shall be contracted out.
4.    (a)   The Works Inspectorate shall perform physical audits
of monthly maintenance reports of all project towns and other
local authorities in Kenya receiving maintenance funding from
the Borrower and, on the basis thereof, produce, in respect of
each project town and other local authority, a maintenance
Page  14
performance rating.
      (b)   No project town shall be eligible to participate in
the first phase of the Project, unless it has demonstrated
adequate routine maintenance performance, as determined by an
independent physical audit process acceptable to the
Association.
      (c)   Allocations for periodic maintenance, rehabilitation
and road improvements during the second phase of the project, in
respect of each project town, shall be adjusted, prior to the
beginning of the second phase, in accordance with the
maintenance performance rating achieved by such project town
under sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, and other
implementation performance indicators as indicated in the
Implementation Plan.
5.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   make appropriate arrangements to make available to
MLG, in equal quarterly instalments in advance, its counterpart
contribution to the cost of the Project as follows:
            (i)     for fiscal year 1995/96, $4,000,000 equivalent; and
           (ii)     for fiscal years 1996/97 and 1997/98,
                    $7,000,000 equivalent per annum; for fiscal year
                    1998/99, $8,000,000 equivalent; for fiscal years
                    1999/00 and 2000/01, $7,000,000 equivalent per annum;
                    and
      (b)   cause MLG to allocate such funds on a quarterly basis
and in accordance with population and other relevant factors, to
finance routine road maintenance in project towns.
6.    (a)   The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than
March 31, 1999, undertake a joint midterm review of the Project,
during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters
relating to the progress of the Project, the performance by the
Borrower and project towns of their respective obligations under
this Agreement, or pursuant thereto; including, in particular,
the routine maintenance performance of project towns during the
first phase of the Project, having regard to: (i) quantitative
and qualitative use of routine maintenance funds received by
project towns, (ii) actual physical outputs as compared to
targets, (iii) efficiency in the award and management of routine
maintenance contracts, (iv) planning and prioritization of
maintenance tasks, and (v) initiatives for local revenue
generation.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to such midterm review,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments,
a report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the progress and status of the Project, and, in
particular, on the various matters listed under sub-paragraph
(a) of this paragraph.
      (c)   Following such midterm review, the Borrower shall act
promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
7.    Without prejudice to the generality of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions and the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
shall cause TMU to prepare and submit to the Association:
      (a)   on a quarterly basis,
            (i)     a report on the progress of the Project in such
                    form and detail as the Association shall
Page  15
                    reasonably require, and
            (ii)    an analytical statement showing amounts
                    released to MLG pursuant to paragraph 5 (a) of
                    this Schedule, amounts allocated to project
                    towns for routine maintenance expenditures and
                    amounts applied for other project related
                    activities; and
      (b)   an annual report on routine maintenance performance
of project towns, including any proposed remedial action or
other measures required to improve routine maintenance
performance by project towns, together with an implementation
schedule, where appropriate.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
20,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    requests for deposits into the Special Account
                    at such intervals as the Association shall
                    specify.
            (ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    the documents and other evidence required
                    pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                    the payment or payments in respect of which
Page  16
                    replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                    each such request, the Association shall, on
                    behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                    Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                    Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until
Page  17
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
